By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie  As a toddler at Mind Builders School, Omole, Lagos, some two decades ago, Adetomiwa Badejo decided she would become a lawyer. Dressed in a lawyer’s wig for the school’s career day in 2001, she remembers introducing herself and speaking about her future ambition. That dream has been fulfilled.  She was among the 4,458 lawyers called to Bar in Abuja last month. In an interview with The Nation at the Mind Builders Christmas party, the 22-year-old law graduate of the Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, said she was happy her dream has been fulfilled. She said: “The first time I remember I wanted to study Law or was ever being interested in studying Law as a profession was when I was four year-old. “I had watched some movies about how lawyers behave and how they defend defenseless people, and I have always admired that about lawyers. “I remember I was asked in school to dress in a particular fashion and I told them I want to dress in a wig and gown like a lawyer and they made arrangements to get the wig and gown and I remember saying it on stage one day that I wanted to be a lawyer and since then it stuck.”  Tomiwa, who attended Mind Builders School between 1999 and 2007, credited the school for starting her off on a solid foundation which Dansol High School and Babcock University built on. Having had private education throughout, Tomiwa said there was need for more investment in education, particularly the public-school sector. She said: “I was privileged to attend private schools throughout.  I think the government really needs to improve public schools. My interaction with some public school graduates, I am not saying all of them, but some of them the way they interact with people it is not evident that they went to a good school. “Some don’t even know how to speak English and they are in secondary school.  So, l feel like things should be done. Good teachers should be employed for primary and secondary schools because the foundation of every child is important. The government really needs to work on the primary and secondary school education of the children.” 