 The Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL Plc) says it has facilitated a total of N23.1billion in agribusiness loans under its Credit Risk Guarantee (CRG) cover nationwide. Recently, it facilitated over 6billion into strategic projects in the pre-upstream and midstream segments of the agricultural value chain in Kaduna State. Specifically, NIRSAL provided Stanbic IBTC Bank with CRG cover on a credit facility worth N875million to Hulhulde Nigeria Limited – a fertilizer Super Agro Dealer, as well as N3.6billion and N1.72billion facilities for LoryB & DP Ventures Limited and Nalmaco Nigeria Limited respectively – both grain processing companies. NIRSAL’s 75% CRG cover on Hulhulde’s facility supports the value chain financing logic as it gives access to reliable and affordable fertilizer to the thousands of smallholder farmers served by the Super Agro Dealer. Similarly, the issuance of 50% CRG cover to the LoryB & DP Ventures Limited and Nalmaco Nigeria Limited facilities creates guaranteed markets for the local smallholder farmers who supply the grain processors. Leveraging on its US$300million Risk Sharing Facility with which it secures up to 75% of agricultural loans, NIRSAL continues to woo banks to increase lending to agribusiness by investing in a risk-free, profitable financing system. According to a statement issued by NIRSAL, its Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, pointed out that “the CRG cover gives a boost to the beneficiaries’ businesses in more ways than one: Firstly, it eliminates complex collateral requirements in accessing the facility by using inventory as security; secondly, it will reward good loan behaviour with Interest Drawbacks of up to 40%, effectively reducing the cost of capital. These incentives ultimately improve the bottom-lines of the companies, enabling them to engage more labour and generate more output.” According to Mr. Abdulhameed, NIRSAL structures financing deals that are collateralised by inventory, making access to finance easier and smoother for borrowers. The organisation has developed financing frameworks that speak to different commodity value chains, most notably for fertilizer and grains. 