Osagie Otabor, Benin  Kinsmen of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has warned him against denigrating office of the Edo State Deputy Governor, presently occupied by Hon Philip Shaibu. The Oshiomhole’s kinsmen under the auspices of Estako Solidarity Forum (ESF) said the constant attack on the office of Deputy Governor was an affront on Governor Godwin Obaseki and Edo people at large. Oshiomhole had on Friday launched fresh attack on Shaibu saying “Let me send a message to Philip about his propensity for violence. If he is not careful, his case will be that of he who rides on the back of a tiger. Where does it end? “Violence will not take him anywhere. It can only compound his problems.” But National Coordinator of ESF, Comrade Seidu Momoh, said Oshiomhole’s comment showed he is venting his frustration that his plot to use Shaibu to destabilise Obaseki’s administration has hit the rock. Comrade Momoh said Oshiomhole should be thankful to Shaibu for helping to stabilise his administration for eight years. Momoh stated that the suspension of Oshiomhole from the APC at his own Ward was a testimony that the people are now aware of what he truly represents. He said the entire Uzairue clan and Estako at large would not sit and allow Oshiomhole humiliate their son who is the highest political office holder in Edo North senatorial district. According to him, “We are here to warned Oshiomhole to stop calling the Edo Deputy Governor a violent person. “Oshiomhole did his tenure peacefully and there was no trouble. Shaibu helped him to succeed throughout the eight years. “Is it now that ó9 he has been politically emasculated that he wants the world to believe Shaibu is a violent person. ” Shaibu was critically injured during the fight to wrest the Edo Assembly from the grip of the PDP and Oshiomhole became the greatest beneficiary. There are several other things Shaibu helped Oshiomhole achieved and at that time, he was not a violent person because it suited Oshiomhole’s quest to achieve more political power.”