The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N4 billion for the completion of the road connecting Kwara and Osun states. Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola (SAN) told State House correspondents after the FEC meeting that part of the road contract was awarded by the previous administration. “They relate first to Ajase/Ipo/Offa/Erinle Road in Kwara; that is the road that connects Kwara and Osun. “The approval was for the 18 km section that completes the entire length of 26km of the road. “All that was awarded in the previous administration was just 8 km of 26 km. “So, what we have done now is to award the 18km so that the full stretch of 26km is now under contract for the purpose of completion. “That comes to a sum of N4.027billion for the 18km stretch; the previous contract is still going on; so, this is an addendum to that contract,’’ he said. The minister said the second road project approved by the council was Osogbo-Ilesa Road. He said that the contract, awarded in 2012, was not funded. According to him, the Buhari administration had done 76 per cent of the entire project. “What we awarded today was a variation of N825million. “This is to expand the original contract by three kilometers link up to Osogbo town– the built up section because it is supposed to by-pass the town. “ So, this the 3.4km that the governor requested when I went on the nation-wide road tour that we should help connect to Osogbo town. “So, going through procurement and all of that we finally got the approval today for N825million to include that part,’’ he said. Fashola said trucks that carry 60,000 to 90, 000 tons of loads had adverse impact of the roads that were not designed for such tonnage. He said that efforts were being made to ensure that there was enforcement from the loading points- the ports, deports. “So that weights and measures were used from point of origin to ensure that no vehicles exceeds 45,000 tons which is the approved axle load nationwide. “ As long as we continue to exceed and abuse with excess axle load there is no design that you will do that will last. “Of course, we also have a problem; most of the heavy cargo that we haul by road, no nation does it. They use rail. “That is  why I remain continuously optimistic and excited at what transportation  is doing and what government plans to do with rail because that will be part of the final contribution to long lasting roads,’’ he said. The Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Malam Sabo Nanono, also briefed State House correspondents. He said that a contract of N244 million was approved by FEC for the purchase of raw materials for production of vaccine for use against animal diseases, poultry, dogs among others. “May be, many of you are aware of the Veterinary Research Institute which has been in existence for a long time probable before the independence. “ It has been a centre for research and production of animal husbandry and also for production of vaccines,’’ he said.