ANMI: I retired as an Assistant Director of Education (GL 15) in December 1996, after serving   government for 35 years. My gratuities were paid in 1998 when the value of the money had fallen more than 100 per cent. I started drawing my pensions in year 2000. I am a purely federal pensioner, with no state share at all. Till date, I have not been allowed to enjoy any of the pension increases approved since year 2000. In April 2009, my pensions were harmonised to enable me enjoy the 142 per cent increment approved in year 2000. The voucher was prepared. This included the arrears accruing from year 2000. That month, I was paid only the harmonised monthly amount. The arrears were not paid and have still not been paid till now. Later this harmonised amount was reduced by 50 per cent for no reason. Despite series of verifications and completion of complaints forms, no action has been taken on my case. However, the pension authorities keep on telling the public that they have been paying pension arrears and returning savings from discovery of ghost pensioners to government’s coffers. I submitted a letter of complaint to the Akure office of the Public Complaints Office in April 2014, but I am not sure the letter left the office although they charged me for courier fees. I retired from the Federal Civil Service at the age of 56. I am now 76 years old and I am still being denied my entitlements by fellow compatriots since year 2000.  This complaint and relevant documents including my bank statement of accounts are in my records with PTAD as were with those who handed over to them. Why is it that nobody is doing or saying anything about my case? This new government that is committed to change and correcting previous ills should come to the rescue of pensioners. I thank The Nation for its interest in the welfare of the elderly. May God bless and keep the newspaper. Pensioners name: E. F. O. PTAD: We require additional information to enable us investigate and resolve the pensioner’s complaint. Mr Owoeye should please send the pensioner’s name and telephone number to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us speak to him ADETUTU: Hello Omobola, please my mother retired in the year 2005, as a principal catering assistant ll Grade level 10 step 2. Her name is Adetutu. The problem is that she has not been given monthly pension from 2005. Since then some people have been calling her from Head of Civil Service Commission that she should give them money before they will pay, but she ignored them‑ not until February 2018, when they called her that President Buhari had given them go ahead to pay and they swindled  her of N240, 000.  She paid the sum to to their different account numbers with their names. Please, we seek your intervention   as we have lodged  many complaints before now. She is 74. When is she going to enjoy the fruit of her labour?. Thank you PTAD: We will never request for cash to process pension. Pensioners are advised to be wary of fraudsters as pension payment is free. We require the pensioner’s telephone number to enable us get additional information. JOHNSON: My complaints is nonpayment of pension salary as from August 2008. My name is Johnson. I wish to complain that my pension salary since August, 2008 is yet to be paid till date. I call on the Executive Secretary of PTAD to kindly check their records and make the said amount payable to alleviate my financial burden. Thanks and be blessed. PTAD: The pensioner is currently receiving monthly pension payment and is owed pension arrears.  PTAD ensures pension arrears are cleared as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government.