Dear Mummy Temilolu, I need prayers and advice ma. I got deflowered at age 17 but decided to abstain till marriage. My boyfriend and I agreed on no sex till marriage but in recent times I fell into the hands of a man because I needed money to survive in school and now I feel so filthy! I never really wanted to go into such a relationship but there’s no one to fend for me as my father is not responsible for my upkeep and my mother is struggling so hard to fend for us. In fact, I must confess she was the one who convinced me to follow this man saying God won’t come down from heaven to help us that he’s an angel sent by God and I should please him with everything he wants from me so he can help us! I know this is certainly not good! I am so troubled! Please I need to hear from you ma! This is not who I want to become! Kate, 20 My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian sisters, I’ve often said a lot of you would have loved to keep yourself pure but for the unfortunate economic hardship however, IF YOU CANNOT ENDURE PAIN, HOW CAN YOU SUSTAIN GREATNESS? If you are too fleshly and spiritually-dull, saturated in the spirit of the world instead of the spirit of God, there’s no way you can discover the goldmine you are and the wondrous future ahead of you neither can you ever fathom how to navigate your way to great wealth, bliss, joy and phenomenal achievements attached to your name! Funny thing is YOU ARE NATURALLY A GOLD MINE! How sad! And how tragic, when the nurturer, incubator and driver of your life is possessed by stupid, bad, devil! Or what else could possibly possess a mother who would encourage her daughter to fornicate-prostitute so she can have some cash? Hmm…sigh! The title of this article may seem to encourage patriarchy but I must tell you I know there are very irresponsible fathers who live off their daughters knowing they are enjoying largesse made from their daughters’ bodies! However, I am compelled to hit at mothers who don’t want their daughters to suffer the hardship and unpleasant life they have had to endure not knowing that they are more often than not “selling their future fortune” for coins! When I emphasize on you abstaining from sex and shutting your mind away from it right from your early teens, I KNOW WHAT I’M TALKING ABOUT! If you can’t lay a solid foundation for a chaste life by your mid-teens, it’s going to be so difficult for you to stay sexually-pure thereafter and by then the stupid, bad devil would have won a major battle against your soul and one which you may never recover from! Not only are we in a highly-depraved world where sex is presented so loosely and as an indoor game, a crazy world where some demonized social misfits would find little children deem to sleep with, we are in a world where a good number of the custodians of our faith flagrantly take advantage of women and girls to satisfy their sexual desires! A WORLD WHERE 75% MEN WOULD NEVER HELP A GIRL OR WOMAN IN NEED EXCEPT SHE PAYS WITH HER BODY! This has become so bad now that an average man thinks he can get in between the thighs of any woman he wants as long as he’s got some cash or favour to give her! WHAT AN INSULT, HUMILIATION AND VICTIMISATION OF WOMANHOOD! Yet too many mothers are praying for wealthy men to come their daughters’ way- same daughter that carries all the virtues and glory that can buy the man and his entire generation if activated with the power of God! THIS IS A VERY SERIOUS MATTER! I shall give you an expose on this next Sunday! May God open your eyes to behold the wonder that you are in Jesus name! To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook – TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.