 FIRST Lady Aisha Buhari has accused the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, of disloyalty to the President. In a personally signed statement, the wife of the president expressed regret that Shehu’s “failures” had caused a great deal of embarrassment to President Buhari. The statement was authenticated by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity (Office of the First Lady), Aliyu Abdulahi, who said: .”I have seen it and since it was circulated by my colleague, the Director of Press in the First Lady’s office (Suleiman Haruna), I believe it came from the office.” According to Mrs. Buhari, the Presidential aide  had decided to lend his services and loyalty to other interests outside his call of duty. She noted that these other interests, who had constituted themselves into a force to alienate the family of the President, were behind a series of negative media for the first family. She condemned what she described as “blatant meddling in the affairs of the Office of the First Lady”, and alleged that  Garba was  the author of the attempt to obliterate her office. Aisha went on to accuse Garba of even sponsoring “ media campaign of calumny against her children and herself “ as part of  his latest antics against the Buhari family. The First Lady had on Sunday accused presidential aides and other government appointees of not doing enough to defend the government of her husband. She vowed to continue talking until right people found their way in leadership positions. Her  statement on Wednesday  reads: “Nigeria’s development is hinged on the ability of public officials to execute their mandates professionally, and to be shining examples in their various areas of endeavor. It is not a good sign when officials abandon their responsibility and start clutching at straws. “As spokesperson of the President, he (Garba) has the onerous responsibility of managing the image of the President and all the good works that he is executing in the country. Rather than face this responsibility squarely, he has shifted his loyalty from the President to others who have no stake in the contract that the President signed with Nigerians on May 29, 2015 and 2019. “To make matters worse, Mr. Shehu has presented himself to these people as a willing tool and executioner of their antics, from the corridors of power even to the level of interfering with the family affairs of the President. This should not be so. The blatant meddling in the affairs of a First Lady of a country is a continuation of the prodigal actions of those that he serves. “We all remember that the chief proponent appropriated to himself and his family a part of the Presidential Villa, where he stayed for almost four years and when the time came for him to leave, he orchestrated and invaded my family’s privacy through a video circulated by Mamman’s Daughter, Fatima. The public was given the impression that on arrival to the country I was locked out of the villa by Mr. President. “Garba Shehu, as Villa spokesperson, knew the truth and had the responsibility to set the records straight, but because his allegiance is somewhere else and his loyalty misplaced, he deliberately refused to clear the air and speak for the President who appointed him in the first place. Consequently, his action has shown a complete breakdown of trust between the first family and him. “Mr. Shehu was privy and part of the plan and its execution and he was shocked when he realised that I had publicised my return to Nigeria on October 12, 2019 and cleared the air on the many rumours that took over social media, a job he was supposed to do but kept mute to cause more confusion and instability for his principal and his family. “Garba then, vented his anger on the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) management insisting that the media crew to my office must be sacked. He succeeded in getting them suspended for doing their job. I had to intervene to save the innocent staff from losing their means of livelihood by involving the Department of State Services (DSS) in order to ascertain roles played by key actors in the saga. “It is at this late hour that I recall, sadly, that it was the same Garba Shehu who claimed that the government will not allow Office of the First Lady to run. He was later to confirm to one of my aides that he was instructed to say so by Mamman Daura and not the President. This antic attracted the anger of Nigerian women. He didn’t realise the fact that First Lady’s Office is a tradition which has become an institution. “Today, even without a budget, I am able run my humanitarian programmes. “In saner climes, Garba Shehu would have resigned immediately after going beyond his boundaries and powers. “Garba Shehu needs to understand that this kind of behaviour will no longer be tolerated. The latest of his antics was to wage a war on the first family through an orchestrated media campaign of calumny by sponsoring pseudo accounts to write and defame my children and myself. “Based on Garba Shehu’s misguided sense of loyalty and inability to stay true and loyal to one person or group, it has become apparent that all trust has broken down between him and my family due to the many embarrassments he has caused the Presidency and the first family. “We all have families to consider in our actions and therefore it is in the best interest of all concerned for Garba Shehu to take the advice of the authority, given to him sometimes in the first week of November, 2019”.