Lawmaker representing Kiru/Bebeji Federal Constituency, Hon Abdulmumin Jibrin, has denied having a strained relationship with Kano Governor, Umar Ganduje. Jibrin, who spoke to State House Correspondents in Abuja on Tuesday, said his relationship with Governor Ganduje is cordial and intact. According to him: “My relationship with my governor is cordial, he’s always been a father and nothing has changed”. The lawmaker, who said he was at the State House on a courtesy visit to President Muhammadu Buhari, to commend him for the works he had been doing in the various sectors, also assured that the rerun election scheduled for January 25, 2020, in his constituency will be a free-run for the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking on why he was at the State House, the lawmaker said: “I had audience with Mr President and a regular audience to discuss with him all the achievements during the year, to commend him on the progress we’ve made in the economy, fight against corruption and the issue of security in the country and to look at issues having to do with massive infrastructural development going on across the country. We need to sustain it “The agricultural revolution going on, we need to sustain it. The fight against insurgency and the successes that have been recorded and of course, the cordial relationship that now exists between the executive and the legislature. “By and large, it’s been a very good year for the President and the government and I think we all have the responsibility to commend him. That’s what we discussed, essentially”. On the forthcoming rerun election in the state and his alleged strained relationship with the governor, he explained: “That’s not true. It’s the usual rumour, we are working harmoniously and I’m sure that the rerun will be very successful, not only in Kano for the APC, but all over the country where rerun will be held on the 25th. Asked if he would maintain a vocal stance if he returns back to the House of Representatives, Jibrin said: “Nothing has changed about me and nothing will change, I’ll continue to be the person that I am; the frank and very blunt and continue to contribute my quota towards the development of the country.”