By Emeka Ugwuanyi  The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has aligned its deliverables with the ministerial mandate for the oil and gas sector. Its Acting Director, Mr. Ahmad Rufai Shakur, stated this at the opening of the DPR Strategic Management Retreat in Abuja. He emphasised that the objective of the retreat was to cascade down the ministerial mandate to all staff of the agency to enable DPR provide the necessary regulatory oversight for the sector, and achieve the next level agenda of the government. Shakur listed the ministerial deliverables as, eradication of smuggling of premium motor spirit (petrol) across Nigerian borders, complete Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme, increase crude oil production to three million barrels, reduce the cost of oil extraction, promote the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill, increase domestic refining capacity, create jobs for Nigerian youths. Shakur said the strategic management retreat will further assist the DPR to sustain the tempo of ongoing reforms in the agency which is geared towards aligning with the Agency’s vision of being a world class regulatory agency. He tasked the top management of the agency to ensure total alignment of their divisions and zones to the ministerial deliverables as it has been embedded into the DPR’s corporate strategy.  The Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who was the Special Guest of Honour, praised DPR for the retreat initiative. He stated that there must be a shared vision by all players in the industry for progress to be achieved. Sylva emphasised that the ministerial deliverables must cascade down to all staff as it was the duty of everyone to ensure the success of the mandate. He recalled that the deliverables was a product of the ministerial retreat he had earlier in the year reiterated that DPR being the core of the oil and gas sector of Nigeria must ensure the successful delivery of the mandate. The minister enjoined the department to swing into action as he has dubbed year 2020 the year to deliver and begin the actualisation of the oil and gas industry roadmap.