By Raymond Mordi A group of Niger Delta stakeholders under the aegis of the Concerned Youth Leaders of the Niger Delta has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to inaugurate the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The group said an interim management committee does not augur well for the overall interest of the agency and the region. A statement from its Coordinator Razak Amatoru (Delta State), Secretary Omoro Ogei (Bayelsa State), and Public Relations Officer Darius Eyo (Rivers State) said a quick intervention by the President is required at this point in time, for the agency to function properly and effectively. The statement reads in part: “We are aware that a new board has been appointed and subsequently confirmed by the Senate after several caretaker committees. We, therefore, urge Mr. President to immediately inaugurate the new board. We strongly believe that the quick inauguration of the board would douse the prevailing disenchantment amongst stakeholders and pave the way for the commission to function properly and effectively. “While we support the thorough audit of the commission, particularly by a reputable international audit firm to unravel the rot within, we make bold to say that we are not interested in these illegal contraption called caretaker or interim management committee arrangements which do not bode well for the overall interest of the commission and the people of Niger Delta region.”  The group appealed to the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs and its leadership to listen to the people of the region and desist from anything that is capable of undermining the smooth takeoff and running of the new board. It also commended the Senate for its insistence that the budget of the commission must be defended by the confirmed board. It added: “It is self-evident that the recent crisis in the commission has taken us backward in terms of development. We don’t have time and resources to waste on personal selfish interests anymore. Let all genuine stakeholders treat the development of our region far above our personal interests. “While congratulating the new board in advance, we urge them to hit the ground running as soon as inaugurated. The Niger Delta region is in dire need of development.” 