  Every December 9, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) marks the anti-corruption day and encourages World leaders to join the fight against corruption. In Nigeria, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) marked the anti-corruption war and blamed the public for not giving information to help the fight. Professionals said most stolen funds are diverted into real estate and property development. Just recently in Kwara State, the anti graft agency said they have recovered over 10 houses worth N3.2 billion from treasure looters and before now exotic properties have been traced to many politically exposed persons and top civil servants. A Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Monday, December 2, 2019 ordered forfeiture of the Ilorin residence of the immediate past Senate President Bukola Saraki. The Ilorin Zonal Office of the commission had earlier approached the court presided over by Justice Ridwan Aikawa for an order of interim forfeiture of about N1 billion worth property belonging to Saraki. EFCC requested for forfeiture on the grounds that it was acquired through the proceeds of unlawful activity. Ex-Petroleum minister, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke was alleged to own a 15-storey apartment block, comprising of 18 flats and six penthouses in an upscale Banana Island in Ikoyi worth $37.5 million and permanent seizure of a further $2.74 million and N84.54 million ($269,000) that were said to be part of the rent collected on the property . Former Chief of Air Staff, Alex Badeh forfeited the sum of $1 million and houses in choice areas of Abuja. Joining in the fight against corruption in the sector are professionals in the built environment especially the Estate Surveyors& Valuers under the aegis of the Society for Professional Valuation (SPV) who in the commemoration of the United Nations Global AntiCorruption Day called on Nigeria’s anti-corruption agencies to upscale their efforts in the fight against money laundering in the country. They also recommended certain measures to discourage rogue politicians to see real estate sector as a safe haven for siphoning products of corruption. The Association Chairman, Board of Trustees, Otunba Sola Enitan, an Estate Surveyor & Valuer in a chat with The Nation in Lagos, said that for any country to grow economically, the fight against corruption and money laundering must be thorough, adding that money laundering effects on a nation’s economy is enormous. He maintained that corruption is endemic, noting that over 80 per cent of all proceeds of corruption find their way into real estate, properties or the building of assets. He said it is evident in high brow areas of Lagos and Abuja where massive buildings are unoccupied for years. He said: “A high share of the population and businesses harbour un-official income. There is also the existence of a black market in the foreign exchange market, it is as if it has been legalised. Corruption among state executives, law enforcement and judicial officers is rampant. Poor control of financial instruments such as shares and bonds, insufficient requirements for transparency of financial transactions and ownership of assets encourage money laundering”. Enitan regretted that corrupt people find the sector a sure bet to hide their ill-gotten wealth and pleaded with anti-graft agencies to do something urgent to check it by applying the laws when there is an infraction. He said some of these people practise what he called smurfing where cash is broken into smaller deposit to avoid detection by the agencies. Enitan said money laundering include but not limited to anonymous cash accounts and financial instruments, including shares and bonds, insufficient requirements for transparency of financial transactions and ownership of assets. Others are limitation of opportunity for financial information exchange with foreign Law enforcement agencies, wide use of operations by enterprises, banks with offshore companies, imperfections in the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and other cash transactions. Others he mentioned are corruption among State Executive, Law enforcement and Judicial authorities and inadequacy of monitoring mechanism for activities of financial institutions, non-compliance with international financial management standards developed by specialised international organisations and Legislative securing of the financial transaction secrecy etc. He said: “Public officials must declare their assets before and after their term in office and an independent body such as the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) should ensure their declaration is true and declaration be made public. Pre- and post-construction development appraisal should be done to clear issues of over and under invoicing. Procurement officers of private and public institutions ought to be held accountable through professional certification and strict ethical conduct”. He maintained the need for Procurement officers of private and public institutions to be held accountable through professional certification and strict ethical conduct. The SPV boss also suggested that EFCC and NFIU have an online land registry to which a catalogue of all titled properties nationwide will be seated. He said the registry will ensure that owners of lands and properties will be known with cover ups exposed and their sources of wealth fully disclosed. On his recommendation, Enitan asked for compulsory assets declaration by public officers. He called on the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) to be proactive and ensure that all politically exposed persons and civil servants declare their assets before and after office. He reminded policy makers on the fact that it is only an Estate Surveyor & Valuer that is professionally and legally qualified to handle asset declaration and valuation. He canvassed the need for the anti graft agencies to work with his professional group to check the preponderance of corruption especially in the real estate sector. He asked that unoccupied properties should be taxed insisting that because the monies used in procuring the properties were proceeds of crime the owners of such building allow them to waste. He encouraged the government to tax such property owners heavily to raise revenue as in the first place the monies used to build such is not owed by them. On the effects of corruption on the economy, he said it can weaken the financial sector and even cause a glut in the real estate sector in a particular segment of the economy. Another Estate Surveyor & Valuer, Isaac Fabuiyi, said the law mandated them to register with the Special Control Unit against Money laundering (SCUML) if a client exceeds the limit of transaction approved by law. He said the EFCC law states that any transaction that is above certain limit should be reported to the agency but he confessed that his colleagues have a challenge with non disclosure by some clients. He maintained that it’s not their duty to report their clients but take necessary precaution to ensure that the wrong clients do not come to them.  