By Charles Okonji  The bulk of the recent policies initiated by the Federal Government were aimed at putting the economy back on track on a sustainable basis, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 17th meeting of the National Council on Science and Technology held in Awka, Anambra State, over the weekend, he said the policy initiatives would not only fast track economic growth, but also reduce unemployment. The meeting had the theme:  “Moving Nigeria from Import Dependent to Sustainable Self-reliant and Exporting Nation through Science, Technology and Innovation.” The president, who was represented at the meeting by the Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi, described the theme as apt, in view of the numerous challenges facing the country, such as security and rampant cases of smuggling across the borders. He pointed out that his administration had initiated guided reforms for the growth, development and wellbeing of Nigerians, adding that his administration meant well for the citizens. The President called on Nigerians to make use of what is being produced in the country, stressing that the government and the ministry were working hard at synergising with the organised private sector to commercialise Research and Development (R&D) results.  He said the only way to achieve sustainable growth and move the country forward is through export, adding that it can only be achieved through science, technology and innovation. Abdullahi said the ministry is endowed with human resources, which can help in moving the country to the next level. He added that science, technology and innovation have pivotal role in transforming Nigeria into a sustainable, self-reliant nation. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Commissioner, Ministry of Tertiary Education, Science and Technology, Anambra State, Prof. Theresa Nkechi Obikezie, said the National Council on Science and Technology was aimed at promoting the scientific development and technological modernisation of Nigeria. She said this will be done through developing high level human resources, promoting and maintaining scientific research projects and disseminating scientific and technological information. Prof. Obikezie called on the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and her agencies to put Anambra State in the first line of states to be carried along in their activities. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Science and Technology, Senator Uche Lilian Ekwunife, said Nigeria is blessed with a vast natural and human resources, which must be harnessed and used by the manufacturing sector to boost the economy.