An official of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has arrested One Chance robbers with the help of some residents. They were nabbed after they robbed a petty trader, Mrs. Chinyere Nwali, of her N198,000 in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital. The middle-aged woman said she was heading for the market to shop for Christmas when she fell victim to the gang. She said: “I was on my way to the market. While waiting for Keke NAPEP near Ahia Ofuu, a private car with three occupants pulled up and asked if I was heading for Ogoja road. I replied yes and they asked me to enter. I got in. “Midway near Presco junction, they stopped and asked me to move over to the front seat. I refused, insisting that I was comfortable where I was. The man beside me shouted:  ‘Madam you no dey hear make you go front? “At that point, the lady occupant jumped down from the car, came over to my door side and roughly dragged me off the vehicle. They snatched my handbag and sped off, leaving me writhing in pains. “I was, however, lucky that an onlooker rescued me. He boarded a commercial motorcycle and chased them. Later he returned with the female member of the gang, who actually attacked me, for me to confirm her identity.” It was gathered that the sympathiser, who chased the criminals, overtook them at Spera-in-Deo junction where he raised the alarm, which attracted an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, who was on duty at the area. The officer apprehended the suspects. The female suspect, Ebere Ugwu, who said she is from Nkanu in Enugu State, admitted being part of the gang. She confessed that her friend introduced her to the ‘business’ and she had been robbing people for the past two years. The male suspect, Enyi Emmanuel Eze from Abbi in Cross River State, said he was not part of the gang, adding that he was implicated by other male members of the gang, who came to his shop to eat snacks. He claimed that they made repeated phone calls while eating and ended up asking his sales girl to help keep custody of the bag containing money for their sister, who was unable to join them for their trip in time. He said his attention was drawn to the request and he initially refused, but after their persistent pleas he agreed, but was surprised that the lady arrived his shop after exchange of phone numbers, only to be arrested there with him by law enforcement officers for what he knew nothing about. The two suspects have been charged to court, while the N 198,000 has been recovered and given back to the owner.