Tajudeen Adebanjo  The General Overseer of Faith Revival Apostolic Church (FRAC), Apostle Paul Adenuga, has urged political and religious leaders to discourage lies and other forms of corruption, to allow God save the country from its abysmal descent to worthlessness.’ The cleric spoke during the church’s annual convention held in Lagos.
He said the Lord had revealed to him that the solution to the problems bedevilling the nation was for citizens to stop telling and encouraging lies.
Adenuga said: “From the President to the least Nigerian, we should all stop telling lies. If the President encourages lies, the system will be abused.
“But if the President wants to fight corruption, he should be the first person to discourage lying even among his immediate followers and officers. “If I tell lies in the presence of my junior pastors or my followers, I have established lying. There is no corruption outside lying. This is why the Holy Bible says Jesus is the way, the truth and the light. Whoever follows the footsteps of Jesus Christ does not tell lies.” He said if someone has no reason to tell lies, he or she cannot be corrupted. “Lie is the mother of corruption. Today in Nigeria, if a Force man wants to kill an innocent man, he will first concoct a lie as a reason to justify his unjust intention. “This is because, the Force man knows that he can be charged with an offence, hence he will come up with one lie so that people can listen to him,” the cleric added. He did not spare the church. According to him, clergymen have also disappointed the country. Said he: “All we pastors and fathers of faith, may God forgive us all. We are called to shield the country, we are called to shepherd the people; but we have failed the nation.” To right the wrong, the apostle said the church has to open the doors of ministry to the youth. He said that pastors should stop seeing the country as mere business.
“Rather, see the country as church that the Lord has chosen for end time revival. If there is no platform for the revival, revival cannot take off,” Adenuga added.
He urged servants of the Lord to make sacrifices so that the revival could begin.
“We should sacrifice by giving children free education. This is the area where the church has failed. We should make education in Nigeria free.
“Many of our youths have turned to fraudsters; many of them are people who may have lost their parents at a tender age,” Apostle Adenuga said. He said the church should shield such children and open doors for them to come to Jesus. “Instead, we send them out to go and look for school fees by themselves. They will turn to kidnappers, armed robbers. God relies on us; we should do something to help them,” he stressed. The cleric said that his church was set to make education free from primary to secondary school level for children.
He said that his church would fund the project with tithes, offerings and money from sponsors. “To the glory of God, I am a revivalist; we spend a lot of money to organise revivals. For this project, we collect tithes and offering and people are also supporting us. “All we need do is to be faithful. If we don’t divert the money people are contributing to run this education, we will succeed,” Adenuga said.