Osagie Otabor, Bénin  National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has attacked the Nigeria Police for allegedly providing cover for thugs to perpetrate violence that rocked Bénin City on Friday. Comrade Oshiomhole said the police watched as thugs gained access to the Bénin Airport with the intention of preventing him from arriving Bénin City to attend a rally of the All Progressives Congress. Oshiomhole who spoke to newsmen at his Bénin City resident did not however attend the rally where former PDP members were received into the party. He was said to have been technically placed under house arrest. Speaking to newsmen after the rally, Oshiomhole stated that he was not under any house arrest. Comrade Oshiomhole said the Police planned to create mayhem so that they could blame him and also refused to provide security for him. “The leadership quality of a man is tested under excessive provocation. If it was my old self, I will not only go there but I will make speech that by now the battle line is drawn. As National Chairman, I had to pay the price by abstaining from going there so that I deny the IG and Edo Police Command to go and kill people and blame it on me. “I am embarrassed that the IGP will write me a letter informing me on the strength of my application which I informed him of our intention to do a rally. We informed police not for license so that they can earn their salary. It is not for them to grant permission. I thought as National Chairman, I should be formal. I delivered the letter myself so that it can be more personal. “He convey to me that he has directed the police to provide full security so that the exercise can have full security. The IG knows the political value of Pastor Ize-Iyamho joining us. What I am not able to understand is how the same IG could be alleged to send a letter to Philip Shaibu that the rally will not hold. The party is not run by the government, it is run by the party. The business of people joining us is the responsibility of the state chapter who invited me to join them to receive Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “I am from here and I have worked with Pastor for which I am proud. It is a shame on Edo Police Command that people in broad day light thought they can intimidated me from arriving Bénin. The police supervise and superintendent over this violence even as the IG has given me a letter. As at that time no other letter has been issued. For police to claim they are unable to secure the Airport road, as reporter, I asked you to explain what Edo people went through yesterday. Bénin was locked down just to oblige the Deputy Governor or the government of Edo State. “The police supervise and superintendent over this violence even as the IG has given me a letter. As at that time no letter has been issued. For police to claim they are unable to secure the Airport road, as reporter, I asked you to explain what Edo people went through yesterday. Bénin was locked down just to oblige the Deputy Governor or the government of Edo State.” Oshiomhole, however, said he was happy that the rally held successfully and that the APC was poised to win future elections. He said it was worrisome that Governor Godwin Obaseki could interpret some things as plot to stop his second term bid. Comrade Oshiomhole accused Governor Obaseki of blocking every avenue for peace to be achieved in Edo APC. He said Obaseki is fighting over second term ticket without fighting to win the heart of the electorates. “Our confidence about winning the next election is better assured than yesterday. Let me send a message to Philip. This is not student unionism. Violence will not take him anywhere. It can only compound his problem. Everybody is aware these thugs were organised with the approval of Edo State Police Command. That guy whose car was burnt. Do you think he will vote for the APC. “My position is the way to iron out differences is to seat down with various shades of opinion. Listen to the complains, the ones that valid share with them how you will address them. This we have been working on. The Governor has refused to attend an all inclusive meeting. He prefers to handpick people. Obaseki told Eghe Ogbemudia to abuse party leaders and the girl said no. She said she could help to reconcile them. The governor said either the lady abused the party leaders and eight hours later, the woman was suspended. That is how they suspended four council chairmen. “Four Governors agreed to join the all-inclusive meeting because that is the way to go but the governor said he is not ready for peace. He should not be worrying about ticket. He should be worried about proper election.  Our party doesn’t believe in rigging. We have entrenched the culture of one man one vote. The name of the game is persuasion. He must persuade because on that days everyone is equal. The Chief executor of violence is Shaibu. He doesn’t understand he is doing damage to his principal. The principal is not able to see their own frustration.”