LAST week, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated the construction of the N18bn University of Transportation, Daura. The school, which is expected to be completed in a year and a half, will generate skilled manpower to “operate and maintain numerous railway infrastructure and services” in Nigeria, or, in other words, domesticate railway engineering. There is no question that the sector needs skilled manpower to run it, but whether it needs a separate university to do so is a different matter altogether. The president is, however, pleased with the decision to set up the university, does not mind its location in Daura, his hometown, and since the cost will be borne by the Chinese company building Nigeria’s standard gauge railway (though the devil is in the detail), it enables officials to beat their chests and cast any sceptic as a professional malcontent. Former Rivers State governor and currently Transportation minister Rotimi Amaechi is a powerful voice for the sector, and it is doubtful whether recent gains in the sector could have been as significant without him. He champions the sector, particularly the railways, with a passion that is infectious and unrelenting, to the point of convincing even the president to lend wholehearted support to the reinvigoration of the railways. But while the president has sometimes seemed aloof from the nitty-gritty of enunciating and executing difficult and controversial policies, in this case, the University of Transportation, Mr Amaechi, never one for verbal moderation, has been unrestrained, almost hysterical, and voluble. As governor, Mr Amaechi was brilliantly forward and paradoxically self-deprecating, and tended to create offense by his boyish, undiscriminating candour. As minister, his style has changed only a little, considering how he still manages to create offense with as much gusto as his unorthodox frankness can carry him. Few were, therefore, surprised that perhaps because he heads the Transportation portfolio he has decided to be reckless in the manner he takes ownership of the policies that pertain to the new university in Daura. Did he give the controversial idea of building the university in Daura a deep reflection as he really should? If it is assumed that he was substantially responsible for deciding the location of the school — which is doubtful despite his protestations — it is unlikely he did. All he volunteered was that he leaned heavily on the Chinese contractors to include in the contract a factory to assemble railway rolling stock in Kajola, Ogun State, and a university in the president’s hometown devoted to producing skilled manpower for the railways. If asked, Mr Amaechi would probably explain the economics of how the Chinese might write off the N18bn in their books. And he will do it in his predictably copious manner, for he is never short of explanations. Though he was not asked, but because he had heard snickers about the ‘brilliance’ that led to locating the university in Daura, Mr Amaechi responded with his characteristic causticity, dismissing the cynics and questioning their patriotism and altruism. Said Mr Amaechi: “We realised that education is key to the building and maintenance of all these infrastructures. I engaged CCECC. I insisted on the University of Transportation. Today, we are here for the groundbreaking ceremony of the university. When we sited the factory at Kajola, there was no noise; nobody debated about it; nobody abused us for it. Nobody influenced me to site this university here. Anybody who accuses me of being a sycophant; let me admit it in advance that I am a sycophant. And if you know the president very well, you will know that sycophancy does not sit well with Mr. President. Daura is in Nigeria. It is not in any other part of the world. It is not in Niger; it is not in Biafra; it is not in Mali; it is in Nigeria; so, what is wrong in siting a University of Transportation in Daura. I have no regret siting this university in Daura.” But he really should be remorseful. For even if sycophancy does not sit well with the president, as he implausibly argues, it certainly does not debar him, by his admission, from deploying that sickening tool. It is nothing to be proud of. But Mr Amaechi manages to revel in it, in fact suggesting without any hint of sarcasm that he was proud to be a sycophant. Sometimes Mr Amachi speaks and acts like a footballer who needlessly and inexplicably kicks an opponent, probably because, like they say in football, blood rushed into the brain. Politics has its own adrenalin, quite different from its aphrodisiac content. Once a politician experiences a rush of that adrenalin, he is liable to say, think and do anything, regardless of whether it makes sense or not. Since the minister is desensitised to the pitfalls of sycophancy, it is not surprising that he can’t see its evil or the damage it does to the polity. But sycophancy or not, it is strange indeed that the minister can also not see the ethical snare of locating such a project in the president’s hometown, knowing full well that Nigerians were bound to wonder what on earth had come over public officials who distort public policy in favour of selfish considerations. Contrary to what Mr Amaechi thinks, and regardless of whether he had become accustomed to sycophancy or not, and especially seeing that he is not president and perhaps does not entertain any immediate ambition to be one, should the president himself not be uncomfortable with locating the university in his hometown? It is a disingenuous parallel for the Transportation minister to equate the Kajola rolling stock factory with the Transportation university in Daura. No one questioned the Kajola location because it was clear that no selfish interest was nursed by anyone. Kajola is not the hometown of any top politician or former president. But Daura is the hometown of the sitting president, a president who has made ethics in governance his watchword. And by embracing the location of the university in Daura, the president associates with the decision, sees nothing ethically problematic about it, and has directly endorsed the political perversion that has seen governors and ex-presidents use public office nefariously and unwholesomely. Mr Amaechi cannot be bothered about what anyone says about a decision he unconvincingly claims was his own alone. But the president should be. President Buhari has the advantage of knowing a little about the history of the moral fabric of the Nigerian presidency, even though that fabric has in recent times been abused and misused, and even torn. His immediate predecessor, Goodluck Jonathan, remorselessly located a federal university in his hometown, Otuoke, Bayelsa State. Before him, no president or military head of state attempted that monstrosity. Even the much maligned ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo, soldier and politician, who gives the impression that he has no private or public morals, did not build any university in his hometown but chose to use his office to coerce the establishment and expansion of his own private university, Bells University of Technology. Chief Obasanjo was of course deadened to the effect and contradiction of setting up a private university in the face of poorly funded and badly mismanaged public universities. President Buhari, despite his lack of interest in immersing himself in the history and cultures of the people he has been privileged to govern twice, must surely know that none of the leaders of Nigeria’s independence movement or post-independence leaders located a university or even an industry, nor forced or influenced the location of same, in their hometowns. Nnamdi Azikiwe put the University of Nigeria Nsukka more than 100km from his native Onitsha and even 48km from the Eastern Nigeria capital, Enugu; Ahmadu Bello did not attempt to influence the location of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (University of Northern Nigeria, 1962) to Sokoto; the Obafemi Awolowo University (University of Ife, 1961) was also not located in Ikenne, hometown of Chief Awolowo whose brainchild it was, nor in Ogbomosho, the hometown of Ladoke Akintola, the then premier who led its founding. But by the Second Republic, that ethical standard was beginning to fray very badly and successive political leaders had started to flirt with dangerous locational politics. By the Fourth Republic, as Dr Jonathan and President Buhari have shown, that ethical standard has finally collapsed. It is worse in the states. The altruism that should inform policy decisions in governance is gone. Locating projects in hometowns is a form of corruption more insidious and pernicious than the looting of public treasury. Financial malfeasance does havoc to the society’s commonwealth; deploying public policies and resources for private gains corrodes the soul and distorts society’s moral prism. This was why Chief Obasanjo was denounced for coercing wealthy Nigerians and public agencies in furtherance of his university and presidential library projects. Alas, Dr Jonathan and President Buhari are not different. Nobody believes the fable that Chinese contractors, the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), would absorb the cost of the university to the uttermost. In any case, would public funds not be voted to run it after completion? Mr Amaechi insults Nigerians when he pontificates that the decision to locate the Transportation university in the president’s hometown was a normal, inoffensive decision. It was not. It is in fact another variant of corruption, a bad judgement that has egregiously synchronised with founding and locating an Army university in the Chief of Army Staff’s home state of Borno State, founding and locating an Air Force University (still proposed) in Bauchi State, and locating other sensitive public and federal institutions along sectional, sometimes nepotistic and regional lines. Corruption has often being restrictively defined as just stealing public funds. This is wrong, narrow-minded and jaundiced. Corruption should rightly be expansively defined to include deploying public funds and tailoring publicly-funded policies and projects to serve or massage private and sectional interests. Alarmingly, it is becoming clearer as the years go by that Nigeria suffers for lack of statesmen and patriots who have a healthy and inclusive definition of Nigeria, who have the capacity to see issues and projects beyond their own narrow ethnic, religious and political confines.