By Oziegbe Okoeki  Lagos House of Assembly ad-hoc committee on screening on Friday screened three commissioner-nominees from Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and eight others for the House of Assembly Service Commission and Lagos State Civil Service Commission. The three cabinet nominees screened by the committee: Mr Ganiyu Ayuba, Mr Olugbenga Oyerinde and Bamigbose Martins. The commissioner-nominees are to replace the three rejected by the Assembly during the screening of commissioner designates in August. Those rejected by the House then were: Mr Ajayi Bembe, Mr George Obafemi and Prince Olanrewaju Sanusi. The Committee’s Chairman, Mr Rotimi Abiru (Somolu II) said a total of 11 nominees were submitted by the governor to the assembly for screening and confirmation. He said the eight other nominees included, three for the state house of assembly service commission while five nominees were for state civil service commission. The nominees for the assembly service commission are: Mr Akeem Bello, former member of the 8th Assembly, Mr Kabiru Lawal, a member from 2007 – 2011 and Mr Richard Osungboye. As is the tradition with former members of the Assembly, Bello and Lawal were told to take a bow and leave because they were former members of the assembly while others were grilled. The committee also screened nominees for the state civil service commission, they are: Mr Babatunde Seriki, Mr. Avoseh Suru, Mr Adesina Odeyemi, Mrs Olubunmi Fabanwo and Mr Kamalrudeen Olorunoje. The committee then asked Suru and Olorunoje to take a bow and leave because they were former members of the house in the sixth assembly. Abiru told newsmen at the end of the exercise that the committee would report to the House and confirmation or otherwise would be done during plenary session. Other members of the screening committee are: Mr Victor Akande (Ojo I), Mr Akeem Shokunle (Oshodi-Isolo I), Mr Desmond Elliot (Surulere I), Mr Bisi Yusuf (Alimosho I), Mr Noheem Adams (Eti-Osa I) , Mr Folajimi Lai-Mohammed (Ikeja I), Mr Ajani Owolabi (Lagos Mainland I).