SAPELE born, Warri bred and Lagos-based Afro-fusion singer, Esiri Steve known by the stage name Dimplez has come out to explain why he used the name ‘Dangote’ in his single which video has since dropped featuring the Koko Master, D’banj and not any other billionaire name like ‘Otedola’. The video of his song ‘Dangote’ has since been enjoying rave reviews, not only on the quality of the song or the video quality but also on the strength of the people he features in the video. BBNaija reality TV star, Nina Ivy is the focal delight in the video while veteran actor, Charles Inojie, Josh2funny, Teewavescuts, Florence Mary, and others added colour and some verve. “Dangote is the richest black man so everybody wants to be associated with that name because he is the richest black man. The name in itself is sweet and money is sweet. I think it’s the money that is attracting everyone to use the name. If I use a name like ‘Otedola’ it wouldn’t be as sweet as Dangote, that’s why artistes are using the name to sing. The sound of ‘Otedola’ is not as catchy as that of ‘Dangote,” he said in reaction to the question, “why Dangote? Of course, Teni made a chorus of the name ‘Dangote’ in her ‘Case’ single and so, was Burna Boy’s ‘Dangote, but none of these artistes has any influence on Dimplez who believes he is the heir apparent of the Nigerian music kingdom. “Well, for Burna Boy I know but Teni, I don’t really know, and another thing is, I recorded my own ‘Dangote’ August 2018, things were kind of slow then, so we didn’t put the song out on time. D’banj actually heard it like 6 months later, as a matter of fact we had a hard time shooting the video because D’banj was a bit scared because of the title and since there was another artist that has done Dangote, but my own Dangote was on August and it wasn’t influenced by anybody,” he said. The song “Dangote’ was produced by Boombeatz Musiq and mixed and mastered by Indomix. The video was directed by Unlimited LA. Dimplez recorded his first major single in 2010 but his first video was the song ‘You’ shot in 2017, followed by ‘Dangote’ featuring D’Banj in 2019. He had shot some underground videos though with many other singles to his credit. He was born in Sapele, Delta State and attended Delta State Polytechnic where he has a Diploma degree to his name.