Augustine Okezie, Katsina  The Katsina State Police Command, on Wednesday, announced the bursting of a kidnap syndicate terrorizing Katsina and Zamfara states from their hideouts along Sokoto Road, Makera, Funtua LGA of Katsina state A Press Release by the Spokesman of the Command, Superintendent Gambo Isah which was made available to newsmen in Katsina said the arrest was carried out by the Command’s SARS Team He said ’’they succeeded in arresting one Ibrahim Kasim aged 22yrs of who is the leader of the gang, along Sokoto Road, Makera, Funtua LGA of Katsina state’’ ‘’Suspect conspired with other members of his syndicate and kidnapped his stepsister, one Asiya Kasim, aged 6yrs old of the same address to Talata Mafara LGA of Zamfara state’’. He further disclosed that the SARS Patrol Team led by SP Andrew Alphonsus swoop into action following a tip-off and arrested the mastermind of the kidnap incident. During the cause of investigation, the Police team also discovered that the suspect had conspired with his girlfriend, Murja from Zamfara State, to carry out the crime. He said ‘’the suspect further stated that he was the one that organized the kidnapping including the phone number of his father where the sum of N10 million naira was demanded by the kidnappers. The Command is making effort to apprehend other members of the syndicate as investigation is ongoing’’. In a related development, the Police have announced the arrest of the stepmother who poisoned her stepdaughter to death. Aisha Abubakar, aged 38yrs of Sabuwa Unguwa Quarters, Rimi LGA of the state, was arrested for poisoning and killing four-year-old Aisha of same address who was kept under her care, by administering poisonous food to her. Details collected from the Spokesman of the state police command, further disclosed that the Victim was rushed to the hospital and later confirmed dead by the attending physician. He said’’ In the course of investigation suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. Her motive been of a long-standing hatred she has for the mother of the victim. Investigation is ongoing’’. The Command Spokesman also announced the recovery of stolen cattle by men of the ‘’Operations Puff Adder and Sharan Daji’’, who jointly responded to a distress call based on a report that some unrepentant bandits have attacked Dan Ali village of Danmusa LGA of Katsina state and rustled twelve cows belonging Amadu Mamman, He said’’ The teams swoop into action, gave the hoodlums a hot chase and recovered all the stolen twelve cows. Suspects took to their heels and escaped into the dark forest’’.