Osagie Otabor, Bénin  Some landlords who erected buildings on land meant for public schools are to forfeit such properties to the Edo State Government. Governor Godwin Obaseki who reiterated his stand to demolish any property on public school land said the buildings could also be demolished without compensation. Speaking at the 25th anniversary of the 1994 class of St Paul Anglican Grammer School, Igarra old boys Association, Governor Obaseki said many landlords that encroached on Bénin Technical College land lost their properties to the state government. Represented by Commissioner for Education, Barr Jimoh Ijegbai, Governor Obaseki said he would either fence the properties inside the school premises or demolish them. According to him, “Those who have encroached on school land should remove them otherwise they will be treated like those who encroached on the Benin Technical College land. It is either they removed it or it will be fenced. “The treatment will be meted not only to those who encroached into the Anglican Grammar School Igarra land but all other government schools across the state. All those who have built should either abandon the land or they will be fenced in during the construction of the perimeter fencing of the schools.” National Coordinator of the old boys, Mr. Bolade John said the N5 million fund has been launched to engage teachers that would teach in the school. On his part, Chief of Staff to Governor Obaseki, Chief Taiwo Akerele who is a member of the 1994 set explained that the N5 million Fund was to start a volunteers teachers programme where teachers would be recruited to fill the gap. Akerele said the teachers would teach the students on science subjects particularly Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Biology. His words, “We use the opportunity of 25 years anniversary of leaving the school to review the challenges being faced by the school and what we can do to support while we join forces with other sets and the national body. “It has been brought to our attention that the school has been bereft of high-quality teachers and government has not recruited teachers in recent times so, in addition to supporting for the school’s inter-house sports competition in 2018, we have launched a N5 million Fund to start a volunteers teachers programme where teachers would be recruited to fill the gap and teach the students on science subjects particularly Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Biology. “We will put them on equivalent of N-Power monthly salary. We intend to grow that fund from time to time. We were able to raise N2 million from friends and well-wishers who honoured us with their presence.”