Yusuf Alli, Managing Editor, Northern Operation The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has demanded for the casefile of the detained activist, Comrade Omoyele Sowore from the Department of State Security Services (DSS) for review. He also said his office might take over the prosecution of Sowore. He said the Federal Government is committed to respecting the sanctity of the rule of law, protecting the virtues of human rights and ensuring speedy dispensation of justice. The position of the AGF was contained in a statement through his Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu. The statement said the request for the transfer of the case to the office of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice was contained in a letter dated 11th December, 2019 and addressed to the Director-General of the Department of State Services, National Headquarters Abuja. The statement added: “As part of deliberate efforts to probe emerging issues related to the recent imbroglio related to Omoyele Sowore’s case and for speedy dispensation of justice, the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice has requested that the case file in respect of charge pending before the Federal High Court, Abuja be forwarded to his office. “The Solicitor General of the Federation and the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Dayo Apata(SAN), who signed the letter, referred to a letter from the DSS office on 9th September, 2019. “According to the letter “the Honourable Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice upon a further review of the case has directed the immediate takeover of the prosecution of all charges in respect of Omoyole Sowore by the Federal Ministry of Justice in line with the provisions of Sections 150(1) and 174 (1) (a-c) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended)”. “The letter requested the Director to “promptly forward all the case files” in respect of Omoyele Sowore to the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice.”