Members of Business and Professional Women, BPW, Lekki Club, recently organised a colourful tea wellness, Christmas pop-up event in Lagos. Tagged ‘sip, save and sell’, the vendors presented interesting items that were sought after by guests, exhibitors and other dignitaries who attended the event. The vendors included Joel Lani, health boxes, Mezin women, Prooptics, Upper wardrobe, Sofnfree, Adunni ore, Oremi craft, Popinn, Shelen essential, Revlon realistic, Oliver Nathan company, Open hand initiative, Queens Bridge, Span and redwood, Zalu Nua, Sterling herbal and the Eyiyemi brand. Excellent presentation of the items at affordable prices was the unique selling point for many. In the collections on display, you find an array of modern and contemporary designs, with good details and finishing. One that you just could not resist was collection from Zalu Nua, and there were others too. Like the season connotes, there were lots of gifts for many through a raffle draw. It was also an opportunity for the vendors to talk about their products and you are amazed at their potential, reach, as well as the opportunities for these creative entrepreneurs. One of the vendors, and creative director of Joel Lani, Adetoun Ajeigbe, described her well-crafted bags as contemporary leather fashion brand. The gifted entrepreneur said that “Our focus is to sell the highest quality leather and other functional accessories for elegant women.” On her part, CEO of Adunni Ori, Bolaji Agoro, had a range of products that include natural oils, Shea butter, whipped beard butter, natural black soap, handmade wooden boxes, beard butter liquid and whipped Shea butter in a glass jar. Her words: “Adunni Ori products are all hand made. They are natural, effective and gentle on the skin. Shea butter is a natural product made out of natural ingredients.” “Shelen Essentials and her stand was indeed a place to be; a collection of utensils that was tagged home of luxury. It is indeed the best of cookware and party souvenir. They would certainly bring out the best in your culinary skills. “Hair we are! This is what comes to the mind of every woman who finds her way to the Revlon Realistic Corner. There you find this wonderful revolution for natural hair made with black seedling oil, sweet almond oil, Shea butter, Argan oil, coconut oil. It also boasted of an array of products for different hair styles like twisting pudding, curl revive, as well as the shampoo and conditioner.” Sterling herbal cannabis oil (CBD), that’s useful for various ailments such as ADHUD, diabetes, mood disorder, high blood pressure, chemo, fibroids, addictions, also has a huge traffic.”