Osagie Otabor, Bénin  The much publicised mega rally of a faction of the Edo State All Progressives Congress led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole failed to hold at the proposed Garrick Memorial school ground. As early as 7am, a combined team of security agencies have taken over the venue to carry out orders of the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed, that the rally be suspended until further notice due to security concerned. Some former members of the Peoples Democratic Party such as Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Tony Omoaghe, Donald Boih and others were scheduled to be received into the APC at the rally. When our reporter visited the Garrick school ground, there were dismantling of canopies, chairs and musical stage. Governor Godwin Obaseki had earlier said as leader of the Edo APC, he was not aware of any rally being organised by the party in the State. The state government subsequently warned private schools to close down. Not deterred by the action, the Oshiomhole faction held the rally at the private residence of Pastor Ize-Iyamu. The rally was attended by APC chieftains loyal to Oshiomhole but Oshiomhole was absent at the rally. Police sources said Oshiomhole was ‘technically’ kept under house arrest as the police refused to allow him go to the rally. Pastor Ize-Iyamu and others were received into the APC by factional Chairman of the APC, Col. David Imuse (rtd) on Friday formally welcomed Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu into the party and presented him and his supporters with a broom, which is the APC party symbol. Imuse stated that the coming of Ize-Iyamu and his supporters from the 18 local government areas would add value to the party. ” We are here to celebrate the homecoming of our brothers and sisters from the PDP who have come to add value to our party; not only to add value, they are coming to make our party grow from strength to strength so that we can win at all levels”. Addressing that rally, Pastor Ize-Iyamu debunked rumours that he was joining the APC to make trouble. He said he has already joined the APC as required by party regulations at his Ugboko ward in Orhionnwon Local Government Area. According to him, “For those who are in doubt, the moment I made up my mind to join the APC, I went to my ward and I am proud to say I have registered in Ugboko ward in Orhionmwon local government area”. “By the grace of God, APC will grow from strength to strength. We want to extend hand of peace. We are not here (APC) to fight anyone. We have come to be your friends.” Some chieftains that attended were Hon Pally Iriase, Raza Bello-Osagie, Tony Omoaghe, Victor Edoror, Dr. Pius Odubu amongst others.