A large number of Lagos State University (LASU) students held a candlelight on Monday in honour of their slain colleague, Favour Sewanu Daley-Oladele. The 22-year-old final year student was allegedly lured by his 23-year-old boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, to a Cherubim & Seraphim Church at Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State where she was killed. Part of her organs was removed for money ritual. A student, Dele Alli, had urged his colleagues via Twitter to turn out for the procession. A hashtag, #justiceForFavour, was created to seek justice for the slain thespian. The mourning students, decked in black attires, converged on the Department of Theatre Arts and Music, from where they moved around the campus, singing a dirge; some were in tears. They called on LASU, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Inspector-General of Police to ensure perpetrators’ speedy trial. Other students and social media users took to Twitter to condemn the act, urging the government not to sweep the matter under the carpet. National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest (Zone D) promised to follow the matter to a logical conclusion and “update the public on our actions and findings in due time.” A tweet by its Coordinator, Comrade Kappo Samuel Olawale, said an injury to one is an injury to all.  A group, LASU PRs & Influencers said: “Favour was said to be pregnant at the time of this incident. Please let’s fight for #JusticeForFavour and spread the news.” The Director- General, National Councim for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe has condemned the rise in reported activities of youths, sometimes supported by their parents to ‘hustle’ for money, even if it involves the killing of persons. He said the trend is uncultural, unNigerian and uncivilised and should be stopped by all well-meaning Nigerians from all walks of life. Runsewe said ‘the killing of Miss Daley–Oladele by her boy friend and his mother for money ritual is unacceptable and has nothing to do with the rudiments and culturally accepted means of survival and of money making. “Killing somebody for money ritual is never a business, neither does it have anything to do with being poor or lacking anything good in life, but of a spirit not associated with our people and our way of life”. he said. Runsewe said to stem the tide, people and government at all levels shiould partner in refocusing the minds of young Nigerians “on the true values of our culture, particularly as it relates to working hard to earn a decent living. “NCAC under my watch from 2020 will embark on nation wide cultural advocacy to help call attention and re-educate Nigerians to stop the quest to become rich or make money by all means, which if unchecked will destroy the entire fabric of the family system and the Nigerian culture of love for one another.” Otunba Runsewe noted that this trend has also polluted parents who also sell their children for money ritual, prostitution or into slavery, just to make end meet. “We are not going to allow this to continue and we shall take the battle to various communities, institutions and leaders at all levels both religious and tempora so that we can bring Nigeria back again to what it used to be culturally”. He added. Disturbed by silence or women groups and organisations in Nigeria, he called on their leadership to take up the battle and stop Nigerians mothers from supporting their children in the quest to get rich at cost and not excluding a national woman conference or retreat to arrest the growth of cancer of get rich quick among young persons. “Our women and mothers can do it and I want them to fight it right from the homes. If our mothers says no to this type of unacceptable attitude from our children, then we can go to sleep. We shall engage our women and they will take the matter and solve it, Otunba Segun Runsewe explained