by Adekunle Yusuf  The Nigerian Business Coalition Against AIDS (NiBUCAA), with the support of sponsors, organised its second edition of a 3km walk in commemoration of this year’s World AIDS Day. This was part of a weeklong the activities to mark the day, including a press briefing at NiBUCAA secretariat, which was followed by free HIV testing services across major hot spots in Lagos. The free testing targeted over 5000 people, sponsored by Total Exploration and Production. The 3km walk event, which took off at National Stadium in Surulere, Lagos, with representatives of member companies and other stakeholders, started at 8am and ended at Ojuelegba under Bridge and back to the Stadium, where the major event took place. After the walk, the event at the National Stadium was anchored by Afeez Oyetoro (Saka) and Obianuju Lilian Ikegbune. Mrs. Bunmi Popoola-Mordi, who represented the Managing Director of Total Exploration and Production, Mr. Mike Sangster, pledged the continued support of the oil giant towards ending HIV/AIDS and commitment to the coalition. The Executive Committee Chairman of NiBUCAA, Dr. Musa Shaibu, expressed his gratitude to all stakeholders, saying fighting HIV/AIDS would have been impossible if members had not resolved to unite under one umbrella. “That the gathering is platform for stakeholders and health experts to come together and discuss actionable steps towards achieving good health and wellbeing, especially as regards the workplace and their host communities,” he said. He also stated that, according to the NAIIS recent report, HIV prevalence has dropped from 4.5 to 1.4 per cent in Nigeria, which he described as a laudable progress made possible by the community, stakeholders, government effort and the private sector. While reiterating that NiBUCAA, as the voice of the private sector response to HIV/AIDS pandemic and other associated diseases since 2003, has facilitated and executed HIV/AIDS programmes for the workplace and communities from which services are made available to citizens through mobilising the private sector core competence and resources in a coordinated platform to achieve national HIV and AIDS-related goals and objectives under the sustainable development goals. The theme for the 2019 World AIDS Day is “Communities Make the Difference.” In attendance were over 120 people, which includes; representatives from NNPC, Total E&P, Total Nigeria Plc, Nigerian Breweries, Gremoore, LSACA, NACA, NAPIMS, other stakeholders, members of the Public and the Press.