The timely intervention of emergency workers on Wednesday prevented a Christmas Day tragedy, as three Premium Motor Spirit (PMS)-laden tankers exploded at the Shagamu interchange in Ogun State. The explosion, which occurred around 5:30pm underneath the busy bridge, happened when two of the tankers collided. As soon as the collision occurred, one of the tankers fell and exploded, with thick smoke billowing. Motorists nearby and officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Emergency Roadside Clinic were said to have scampered for safety, keeping safe distance from the fire. An eyewitness told The Nation that firemen, who were contacted to contain the situation, ran out of water, which made the fire to spread to the other two tankers. Traffic was said to have been brought to an abrupt halt, as FRSC officials also cordoned off the roads leading to the incident scene. Confirming the incident, Sector Commander Clement Oladele said firemen were already combating the inferno, adding that motorists had been advised to avoid the area until the situation normalised. He said no casualty was recorded. “Motorists just departing Lagos, Ibadan, Ijebu Ode or Abeokuta may use alternative corridors of Abeokuta -Ota-Lagos, or Ibadan-Ogere-Siun Junction -Abeokuta -Sango -Lagos  and Ijebu Ode- Ajah – VI- Lagos,” he said. Oladele told The Nation that FRSC officials have been on their toes since the commencement of the special patrol, adding that they have witnessed several cases of tankers falling. “At about 5:10am on Wednesday, a tanker conveying petroleum products (PMS)  crashed around the RCCG Car Park C, Mowe on the outward Lagos section of the Expressway. “The PMS laden Tanker that crashed into the barriers caused traffic gridlock on both sections of the expressway. The FRSC managed the situation, contacted fire service and Julius Berger Nigeria PLC Emergency Team to commence transloading and removal of the crashed tanker and eventual  realignment of  the displaced barriers, to restore traffic flow. “Roads in Ogun State are free, devoid of gridlocks, except pockets of areas around the Mowe tanker crash, Sagamu tanker fire and some construction zones,” he said. Oladele said another accident was recorded at the Sagamu interchange on Tuesday afternoon which left one person injured. “The accident involved a Mazda bus with registration number FFA589YR carrying 16 persons- 10 men and six women. One person sustained injury and was rushed to Idera Hospital Sagamu. The suspected cause of the crash was exercessive speed that led to lost of control “Then on Monday, December 23, we recorded at least four accidents with 23 persons sustaining injuries in three of them. “The first crash occurred at about 1pm on the Abeokuta-Sagamu corridor around Kobape and involved a Toyota Hilux with registration number PF2468 SPY. The vehicle was carrying three people, none of them sustained injury. The suspected cause of the crash was fatigue which led to lost of control “The second crash occurred at about 07:30am around the Sagamu Interchange and involved a vehicle with registration number BDG833AV.  A total of 10 persons were involved comprising two males, three females and five children. “Seven persons sustained injuries comprising three femakes and four children. No death was recorded from the crash. “The suspected cause of the crash conveying members of the same family was xcessive speed and Tyre bust whick led to loss of control. The injured victims were  rescued to the  FRSC Emergency Roadside Clinic at Sagamu and were later referred to Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) Sagamu. “The third crash occurred at about 6:10am on the Sagamu-Ijebu Ode -Ore Expressway around Remo which involved three vehicles. They had no  registration numbers.  The vehicles are a Dangote truck and two Toyota Corolla cars. No one sustained injury and no death was recorded from the crash. “The fourth crash occurred at about 2:30pm on the Abeokuta-Lagos Expressway around Ago-Adura. A total of  20 persons were involved comprising 14 male adults, four female adults and two male children. 16 persons were injured- 13 male adults and three female adults. No death was recorded from the crash. The injured victims were rescued to Ifo General Hospital for treatment. The suspected cause of the crash were excessive speed and Tyre bust,” he said.