Since its creation a decade ago, Bitcoin has been continuously in the news for several reasons. In this period, the price of Bitcoin has experienced a constant parabolic uptrend. However, the buzz around Bitcoin reached a new level altogether in 2017, when its price reached an all-time high of $20,000.  This means that an individual purchasing Bitcoin worth $50 in 2009 could have earned millions of dollars by selling them off in 2017. In fact, it is known that some investors were actually rewarded with up to 1,350 percent return. The picture changed abruptly once again in 2018. After starting the year at $14,000, by the end of the year, the Bitcoin price plummeted to less than $4,000. Some experts suggested that this steep price correction was an indication of the “crypto bubble” finally bursting. However, investors must take encouragement from the fact that there are still enough reasons for buying Bitcoin. With the current level of Bitcoin price, there are excellent purchasing opportunities for investors. Mentioned below are some of the many reasons why Bitcoin is still an excellent investment option. Growing global adoption: Though the price of Bitcoin has fallen in recent times, there has been a sharp rise in its global adoption. For example, the Blockchain wallet reports significant growth in the number of users throughout the year 2018. In the past twelve months, the number of wallets has increased to over 32 million from 22 million. This is a clear indication that people’s interest in Bitcoin has not waned even after the price correction. Also, most of the popular peer-to-peer bitcoin exchanges have achieved excellent trading volumes in recent months. This suggests growth of bitcoin adoption in emerging markets, particularly in the South American countries. Throughout 2018, the Bitcoin trading volumes have been extremely high in Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Venezuela, and Peru. In the coming days, bitcoin merchant adoption is expected to increase even more because of the introduction of the Lightning Network. The availability of these new payment channels will ensure faster payments for almost zero processing fees. New Regulations: The absence of adequate regulations has always been an obstacle to the growth of Bitcoin. However, at the G20 meetings in 2018, the need for building a global regulatory framework for all types of crypto assets was discussed by lawmakers and financial regulators. This is a clear signal that in the near future, Bitcoin investment may be regulated by rules similar to the ones we currently have for forex and equity trading. With a regulated market for crypto assets, there is no doubt that more retail investors will be interested in joining the fray. This will provide Bitcoin investment the regulatory stamp of approval that is extremely essential for the institutional investors to start investing in this class of assets. Wall Street Goes Crypto: Nasdaq, Fidelity, and the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) have recently revealed their plans to introduce cryptocurrency trading offerings very soon, for institutional investors. It is expected that Bakkt, a new venture from ICE, will encourage more Wall Street firms to trade Bitcoin because the planned trading platform will launch with crypto custody service as well as bitcoin derivatives. Later on, crypto merchant payment services are also expected to be rolled out by the platform. Innovation: One of the biggest reasons to invest in Bitcoin is the fact that bitcoin is not static. Bitcoin developers all over the world are working round the clock to improve the network so that it has better scalability, features that enhance user privacy, and advanced functionalities such as smart contracts. These were just a few reasons for you to buy Bitcoins. If you are seriously thinking of purchasing Bitcoin, you may contact xCoins today for more useful details and related services. 