Dubawa, a platform actively involved in stopping the spread of false information in Nigeria has launched a programmed tagged ‘Week For Truth.’ The week-long programme starts on Monday across Nigeria. “Today marks the start of week-long activities to expand fact-checking and push the gospel of truth to all corners of Nigeria,” Ebele Oputa, the Programme Officer for Dubawa said in a statement. “Throughout the week, DUBAWA will be hosting events across Nigeria to engage young students, professionals, entrepreneurs, online content creators, people on-the-street and ordinary Nigerians in honest, constructive discussions and hands-on activities exploring the intersections between freedom of expression, civic engagement and fact-checking.” Referencing the fake news that surfaced in the face of the Ebola outbreak in 2014 which claimed the lives of two people and scores hospitalised, Ebele Oputa emphasised the havoc fake news could wreck if not checked. “Regardless of our philosophical, or most times sentimental, differences on the existence of truth, what remains is a common acceptance that false information or fake news could harm just about any of – young or old, rich or poor. In 2014, two people died and at least twenty were hospitalised, all because of a social media prank urging Nigerians to drink an excessive amount of saltwater to avoid catching the Ebola virus”. she recalled “We can talk for hours about the role of tech companies, the government, the media and every other stakeholder in the information industry in fighting misinformation, but an often ignored but essential ingredient is education. By giving people the knowledge and ability to spot potential fake news, you are creating an army of voters who are critical of news they consume from covert and overt sources; people with greater access to information that causes them to challenge leadership; and that’s the kind of people we need in Africa!”. part of the statement read. Dubawa is Nigeria’s first indigenous independent verification and fact-checking project, initiated by the Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), supported by the most influential newsrooms and civic organisations in the country.