 Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde has declared that he didn’t expect to live up to 30. He said he has always believed every day after 30 is simply a bonus. He spoke on during a thanksgiving service to mark his 52nd birthday at the St Peter’s Cathedral, Aremo Ibadan. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the Governor said: “I thought I would join the Army, fight for my country and possibly get killed and that may be the end of the story. “So for me, every year I have lived above 30 years is like a bonus. “There is nothing really much to say; today is my birthday and I am getting mature. Quite frankly, I never thought I would live up to 30. “I have a friend here and every time we were talking, we always thought that we would go into the Army, fight, get killed and that would be the end of our story. “We actually went for recruitment into the Army but were rejected. But today, we are seeing Seyi Makinde at 52 and all I can do is to give thanks to God.” He went on: “When we were going through the electioneering period, people said the political terrain here is rough and I could get killed. “So, I looked at myself and said that I could take the risk since I am more than 30 because I had always believed that anything I have after 30 would be like a bonus to me.” Having lived beyond his expectation, the governor said he would do anything to serve Oyo people. “That is why without looking back, I will continue to serve the people of Oyo State, without minding whose toe I will step on. Truth is, I will break some toes if I really have to and will continue to fight for the ordinary people of this state. “My story won’t be complete without all of you and I thank you all. Today is the first time I am celebrating my birthday like this. “In the area I grew up, the first time they would bring a cake for somebody’s birthday was when the last child of my family, Iyabo, celebrated her birthday. My parents kept delivering male children until they got to the 5th one. “I remember after the delivery of the fifth child, who happened to be a female, my mother, in the labour room, was shouting for everyone to hear that she had a female child. For her, it was special treatment. “Some of us who stayed in the area where I grew up, we used to eat in a communal setting. “So, when they brought the cake for her birthday, it was strange to us and we suddenly rushed it. My mum cried that day. That was the kind of environment where I grew up. “So, if I can be who I am today, then no child should be left behind in Oyo State. “And that explains my passion for education. Once we give education to our children, the sky is their starting point.”