A man armed with an axe and a dagger ran amok in Imo State, threatening to kill anybody in sight. People fled in different directions. In the end he hacked three persons down, killing them instantly. One of his victims was a four-year-old boy, The Nation learnt. Two others were community security officials. The incident happened on Sunday at Umuduru Ubahohie Nnempi in Oru West council area of the state The rampaging man was identified as Chigozie Alagbaoso aka Kpakas Chigozie. His four-year-old victim was identified as Daniel Oleka. Eyewitnesses said Alagbaoso pounced on the victims, hitting them severely and  repeatedly, killing them on the spot. Eyewitnesses told The Nation that Alagbaoso, 29, who was a phone accessories dealer in Onitsha, Anambra State, also left seven other persons severely wounded, including a woman with deep cuts in the chest and leg. The assailant’s grandfather, Kpakas Alagbaoso, was left half-dead with his head ripped open by the assailant. He was also said to have charged at a woman, Mrs Chikaodi Uzoma, but missing her, went after her three children, leaving them with mortal wounds. One woman, Mrs Regina Orisa, was hit in the head. Alagbaoso was eventually overpowered and set ablaze by angry youths. It was learnt that all surviving victims were in critical condition at the community hospital. The Nation gathered that since his return from Onitsha, Alafgaoso kept saying he wanted to own a “Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) and a big house”. A family source said, “On one occasion, Alagbaoso jumped into the well filled with water and came out on his own. When we asked him the reason for all his actions, he complained that he was being controlled by unseen forces. “We are suspecting that he must have been under a serious spell. “He was an Onitsha-based phone and accessories dealer who abandoned his business and came back home. Since then, he has been behaving like a mad man. “But his insanity escalated early this morning when we woke up only to discover that he had as early as 5am, slaughtered one Daniel Oleka, who is four years old, and two security men. “He also attacked other people including children and gave them mortal injuries.” The medical director of the local hospital, Dr Emeka Okafor, told our correspondent that his medical team was doing everything possible to save the victims. He revealed that the victims were critically injured, adding that it would take God’s grace to stabilise them.