In a unified voice at the just concluded National advertising conference in Abuja almost all the sectoral heads and top practitioners, who spoke at the conference advocated self-regulation as immediate solution to government’s nonchalant attitude towards the industry. Chairman, STB McCANN, Sir Steve Omojafor, who led the first group discussion at the conference said after all efforts to appeal to relevant authorities to impress the need for re-constitution of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) Council have failed, stakeholders in the industry may not have any option but to approach President Muhammadu Buhari. Besides, Omojafor expressed his concern over the less attention government is paying to the industry and suggested the idea of adopting self-regulatory approach to grow the industry. Corroborating the position, the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) President, Mr. Ikechi Odigbo, said practitioners should move away from the familiar industry ritual of blaming their woes on the economy, the client and the lack of priority attention of government to the pending institutional and regulatory matters impeding the growth and development of the advertising sector. “Indeed, it came through most profoundly that rather than focus on the external limitations, the times call for speaking truth to self in the other room, as the able moderator properly summed it. Redemption must come from within. Lots of brilliant ideas came from the panel, which recommended the constitution of a shadow council to cement the spirit of collaboration among practitioners, the agencies and various sectoral groups.” Steve Babaeko of X3M Ideas said APCON without a council is like flying aircraft without a control tower. Believing that the advertising industry can operate like the banking industry in terms of tenure of CEOs and capitalization, which could encourage M&A he said the industry needed internal self-regulation. Other members of the panel including Lanre Adisa of Noah’s Ark; Bunmi Oke, former president of AAAN and Femi Adelusi of Media Independent Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MIPAN) endorsed the idea of self-regulation in the face of government lethargy towards the industry.