By Ogunremi  Oyindamola  Carbonated beverages are drinks with carbon dioxide, a colourless and flavourless gas. Carbonated beverages have their base either in carbonated or soda water. They usually have flavours and sweeteners. Carbonated drinks can also be called fizzy drinks as the process of making them involves carbon dioxide under high pressure. When the pressure is removed, the carbon dioxide is released as small bubbles, which cause the solution to become effervescent, or fizzy. An example is the dissolution of carbon dioxide in water, resulting in carbonated water. Carbon dioxide is a weak soluble in water. Therefore, it separates into gas when the pressure is released. Drinks like cola, cherry cola, energy, enviga, red bull, jolt and monster are carbonated drinks with stimulants. Soda is the most common carbonated drink. Many people begin to drink carbonated beverages at a young age with a first sip of coke, Sprite, and Pepsi, or some of the common soda drinks, which are harmful to the body. Coffee is consumed mostly in the western part of the world. It is mostly taken very early in the morning to start the day’s work. Although the ventures didn’t succeed, star bucks tried to introduce a carbonated coffee beverage called mazagran and coke attempted the same thing with Kona. Water is consumed in every part of the world, but it can also be carbonated. Carbonated water, also known as sparkling water, fizzy water and seltzer, is popular among weight conscious or other people who want to avoid sugar sodas. It is mostly planned and in various light flavours like lemon, raspberry and vanilla. Juice they are some juice that has carbonated but check their nutrition labels to see how healthy they are like we have the Nantucket, nectars, line of lightly carbonated juices called Nectar fizz. Notably, carbonated drinks may cause you to experience pain in your nasal cavity. As reported at neuroscience news, one study conducted at the University of Southern California revealed that the carbon dioxide in carbonated beverages alerts pain sensors in your nasal cavity. Carbonated from beverages like soda causes two sensations, making your mouth taste sour and a tingling feeling in your nose and throat. The burning sensation that many people feel when drinking carbonated drinks stems from nerves that respond to pain sensation and temperature in your nose and mouth. Heart burn consuming one or more carbonated drinks per day also causes you to experience nighttime heart burn. One study revealed that heart burn at night, nocturnal gastro esophageal reflux, is fairly common, approximately 44 percent of Americans suffer from heart burns at least once monthly; if you experience heart burn regularly, you may be at the risk of contracting esophageal cancer, laryngitis, asthma, and  pneumonia.  All said, medicines have several instructions, such as when and how the drug should be taken. Some even go as far as stating certain foods or drinks that should be avoided to achieve maximum therapeutic benefits to the patient. However, drug manufacturers have not explained the effects of taking drugs with soft drinks. Soft drinks or aerated beverages are carbonated. Most of them are acidic in nature, too. They are capable of decreasing the anti-bacterial actions of most medicines. The carbonated drinks, when combined with certain medicines, can lead to allergies or have adverse effects in some patients. Hence, soft drinks also restrict the absorption of iron, so if you are taking iron supplements or medicines with iron then consuming them with soft drinks can also reduce the effects of drugs on your body, thereby making them ineffective and slowing down the recovery process of all juices, grape juice must be avoided the most while taking prescription pills as the furanocoumarins in the juice inhibits the absorption of the drugs and can lead to adverse effects as for tea and coffee the tannins in the beverages reduces the digestion of the medication few medianes like calcium or Vitamin D supplements are advised to be taken with milk. Taking medicines with carbonated drinks can make medication to be ineffective. For tannic acid in tea will reduce the absorption of iron in drugs. In addition, milk contains calcium that reacts with some drugs to form calcium salts which are insoluble. This leads to reducing effects of the drug which is very common in many soft drinks like Coca-Cola. Ogunremi  Oyindamola is a 200-Level Mass Comminication student of Babcock University.