 Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola,on Wednesday urged Nigerian leaders, including fellow Muslim governors, to lead according to Islamic tenets by delivering their campaign promises to the people. Oyetola maintained that the world would be a better place to live if only Muslims could emulate the virtues of the Holy Prophet Mohammad in the way they relate with others in society, adding that the Islamic religion enjoins Muslims to be just and keep their promises to the people at all times. He made this call while speaking at the opening of the International Conference on the “Biography of Prophet Mohammad (SAW) and his Impact in Interethnic and Interreligious Harmony,” organised by the Muslim Ummah of South West Nigeria (MUSWEN) in collaboration with Husret Education and Cultural Co. Limited and Hira Magazine, held at the mosque complex, University of Ibadan, Oyo State. Oyetola, who described his administration in Osun as a product of God’s promise, said as a Muslim governor, who is holding a position of trust, he had in the last one year comported himself within the dictates of the Holy Qur’an and the tradition of the Holy Prophet by delivering on his campaign promises to the people of the state. He said keeping promises was part of the good attributes of the Holy Prophet, which Muslims are expected to emulate and teach people from other religions in their conducts and character. The governor said: “Muslims across the globe are supposed to lead others by example. One defining exemplary leadership style of Prophet Muhammad is his ability to keep promises, including those ones made to non-Muslims. The Treaty of Hudaybiyyah bears eloquent testimony to this fact. In Islam, breaking promises is a grievous sin. “There are several verses of the Holy Qur’an that emphasise the need to keep promises. Qur’an 17: 34, particularly says ‘…fulfill (every) engagement, for (every) engagement will be enquired into (on the Day of Reckoning)’. Prophet Muhammad also said: ‘The person who has no covenant has no faith.’ He went further to add that ‘Whoever has faith in Allah and the Day of Reckoning should fulfill his promises.’ “Conscious of the above fact, as a Muslim, whom God, in His infinite mercies, has chosen to steer the affairs of the State of Osun, I have not failed in my responsibilities to provide good governance to our people by delivering on my campaign promises.” The governor further said the numerous achievements of his administration across all sectors in the last one year, including health, education, infrastructure and security, were in fulfillment of his campaign promises to the people. He said part of his promises was to remain committed to the welfare of workers by paying their full salaries and benefits as and when due, a promise he noted, he had never failed to keep, adding that his administration would continue to operate in line with the dictates of Islam by keeping the trust and confidence reposed in him by the citizens. Oyetola said: “Only last month, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) commended our government for effectively utilising the funds released to the state by the agency. “UNICEF, which spoke through its Field Officer, Mr. Tushar Rene, said and I quote ‘On behalf of UNICEF, I wish to commend this government for effectively utilising funds obtained from this agency. This is the first State to approve the social protection policy and law, the 332 primary healthcare centers across the State and so on. We congratulate the governor for the job particularly in education, child and maternal health.’ “I decided to let you into some of these things to let you know that as leaders, we are conscious of our responsibilities and we will discharge them honourably and responsibly with the fear of Allah. The commendations from international organisations like UNICEF, World Bank and the likes bear eloquent testimony to our modest achievements in the last one year.” Participants at the conference were drawn from different countries across the globe, including Islamic religious leaders and scholars from Nigeria, Ghana, Pakistan and India.