By Favour Obiemeka Residents of Kirikiri community in Oriade Local Community Development Area (LCDA) Lagos, have commended Total Nigeria Plc for bringing its cardiovascular health initiative to their community. As part of the Group’s Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) initiative, Total in Nigeria implemented a one-day medical outreach in the community, which involved screening exercise for blood pressure, blood sugar and Body Mass Index (BMI) checks. The initiative, which was in partnership with Axa-Mansard, also witnessed the distribution of multilingual information, educational and communication materials to help pass the message more effectively to members of the public. Speaking on behalf of the community, the Supervisory Councillor  for Health in the LCDA, Ajayi Bashiru, lauded the management of Total for its commitment towards the health and well-being of residents and business owners in the community. He said the intervention would help check and prevent untimely cardiovascular-related deaths within the locality and tasked other corporate organisations to follow Total’s example. The Managing Director, Total Nigeria Plc Imrane Barry, represented by the Executive General Manager (EGM), Total Country Services (TCS), Olubunmi Popoola-Mordi, said as a responsible energy company, “Total was not only committed to better energy, but also committed to the well-being of the society where we live and carry out our business as well. “Therefore, in line with our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy, we are committed to the improvement of the health of our employees, their families and the communities within which we carry out our activities.  This we do through participating in health programmes.”  Total’s CVD initiative is in direct alignment with the Federal Ministry of Health’s National Strategic Action Plan on Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases (2015), which identifies CVD as a major public health issue in Nigeria.  The objective of the project is to reduce the prevalence of cardiovascular disease in Nigeria through awareness and early detection. Also, the company donated some road safety kits to the Apapa Unit Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) to enhance the operations of the command. 