In spite of all the odds, telecoms’ Q1 contribution to gross domestic product (GDP) rose from 9.19 per cent last year to 10.11per cent this year, and for Q2 10.43per cent to 11.39 per cent. Active voice and internet subscriber figures also grew while the country pioneered 5G trial in Africa. All these achievements were, however, almost marred by the unresolved issue of USSD charges between banks and telcos, LUCAS AJANAKU reports.  ONE issue that crested a dramatic impasse in the industry during the year was the directive of Communications and Digital Economy Minister, Dr Ibrahim Pantami, stopping telcom from deducting charges on the use of Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) while allowing banks to do same. USSD is a Global System for Mobile (GSM) communication technology that is used to send text between a mobile phone and an application programme in the network. Based on alleged agreement between telcos and Body of Bank CEOs, MTN Nigeria had sent out notice to subscribers of that N4 will be charge per 20 seconds on USSD access to banking services from October 21,2019. The minister directed the NCC to stop the telcos who own the infrastructure to stop charges deduction while allowing the banks to continue charging. The telcos have put the nation on notice that they will stop giving access to the banks for customers to do cash transfer through various codes on the network. Acting under the aegis of the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), they wondered why stakeholders, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) and Body of Bank Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), have kept quiet over the issue without summoning a meeting to resolve it. ALTON’s Chairman Gbenga Adebayo faulted the argument that the cost of providing the services was ‘sunk’. He wondered if the cost of building a house could be described as sunk. Adebayo said the companies invested huge cash to put the infrastructure in place, adding that they have been spending money to keep the base transceiver stations (BTS) running, in addition to other costs. Adebayo said the telcos will soon apply the relevant sections of the Nigerian Communications Act to stop providing links to the banks. The carriers insisted that stakeholders are yet to meet to discuss the way forward, “but the banks have continued to charge as much as N55 per transaction, using the same telecoms operators platform.” According to him:  “I am saying it again that the USSD links will not be offered free of charge. The records are there. We are tracking how much the banks are charging and making on the USSD. When the time comes, and we agree on the way forward, we will show them what they have been charging. For the telcos, it cost them so much to provide the service. “What should have happened is that when we first raised this issue, we made public statement and expected that a stakeholders meeting should have been called to discuss the matter. “The CBN governor spoke, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy spoke, the NCC withdrew; and since then, nobody has said anything. We expected a meeting of minds, where all parties (telcos and the banks) would come and talk on the matter to a find a lasting solution, but nothing of such happened. I am saying it again; we cannot bury this matter under the table and wish it goes away, it won’t go away. The fact is those links won’t be provided at no cost. “When the time comes, we shall treat it as interconnect debt. We shall invoke the right of the provider of service under the Act of the NCC. So, if the banks will continue to enjoy the service and they won’t pay, telcos will make a case to the NCC for proper disconnect.”  Subscriber figures Perhaps, one of the benchmarks to measure the performance of the telecoms industry is the number of the growth in its subscriber base both in voice and internet and teledensity. During the year, active mobile voice subscribers increased from 174,012,136 to 180,386,316 while internet subscribers increased from 114,306,598 to 123,559,596. Broadband penetration also increased from 32.34 per cent (indicating 61,732,130 Nigerians on 3G and 4G networks) to 37.87per cent (indicating 72,289,389 on 3G and 4G networks).  Quality of Service  Quality of service (QoS) remains a key talking point. But as part of move to change the narrative through promoting the availability of reliable, interoperable, rapidly restorable critical ICT infrastructure that are supportive of all required services, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) reviewed 2G Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and development and definition of 3G/4G QoS KPIs for collocation service providers as well as Internet Service Providers (ISPs) while a new national numbering plan was also developed. Based on recent developments in the global telecoms industry such as machine to machine (M2M) communications, the Internet of Things (IoT), Over-the-Top (OTT) and others, as earlier stated, and other services made possible by fourth-generation networks and the futuristic 5G/6G technologies, the NCC considered it imperative for the numbering plan in the country to be reviewed. The new NNP, therefore, will help to provide numbers that will satisfy the needs of the projected 500 million Nigerians to be connected and about 1 billion globally-interconnected machines and devices by 2050; promote efficiency in the allocation of this scarce national resource; promote competition among service providers; eliminate the risk of running short of all categories of numbers; facilitate the introduction and development of new and innovative services and above all, encourage growth of the telecoms sector and the attendant job creation and contribution to GDP, among others. Type Approval of End User Devices to certify that Quality of Service/ and Quality of Experience (QoE) experienced by the user is not negatively impacted. This is to prevent counterfeit devices in the Nigerian Market through Equipment Authorisation. The Commission has also continued monitoring point interconnection performance among operators and ensure resolution of interconnect disrupted among operators to prevent serious impact on quality of service received by the consumers. The commission also ensured Quality of Service Performance Monitoring through continuous monitoring of service delivery by the operators to ensure compliance. The commission also intensified collaboration with necessary stakeholders and government agencies at Federal and state levels towards resolving critical industry challenges affecting faster deployment of telecoms infrastructure in the country. These include right of way issue, multiple taxation and regulations, vandalism, indiscriminate closure of base stations, fibre cuts, among others  Broadband penetration Pursuant to the implementation of its 8-Poing Agenda, six InfraCos were licensed to drive the deployment infrastructure across the nation’s six geo-political zones and Lago. The licensees are Raeana Nigeria Limited for the Southsouth; O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for Southwest; Fleek Networks Limited for Northwest; Brinks Integrated Solutions for Northeast; MainOne Limited for Lagos and Zinox Technologies Limited for the Southeast. The remaining licence for Northcentral is being processed, according to the Commission. Federal Government’s approval is being sought for counterpart funding to be disbursed to the InfraCo to facilitate their deployment. This will, however, depend on attainment of deployment milestones, according to the Executive Vice Chairman of the NCC, Prof, Umar Danbatta. Based on Open Access Model (OAM), the InfraCos  will ensure there is, at least, one fibre access point for digital services across the 774 local government councils in the country. Increased commitment was given to this by the Commission. On spectrum that will support broadband deployment, the Commission approved the 5G trial on 3.5 gigahertz (GHz) and 26 GHz to MTN; developed guidelines on the use of Television White Space (TVWS) to facilitate broadband penetration to underserved and unserved areas; opened up of 60 GHz band for unlicensed applications and broadband services; approved the use of 18 and 23 GHz microwave frequency bands for point to multi point deployments. Also, some portions of 5.4 GHz bands were licensed; replanted the 800 megahertz (MHz) band for long term evolution (LTE); assigned 2×10 MHz Spectrum to Glomobile for trial in the 700 MHz; approval of Globacom trial on the 2×10 MHz assigned to it. It expired in February, 2019 and the company has been offered right of first refusal on the slot. The NCC has also regularised 2×10 MHz Spectrum in the 700 MHz band previously assigned to MTN by NBC for the frequency to be used for the purpose of providing LTE services.  Another regulatory efforts carried out this year in this regard was the creation of space services unit within the department to enable us regulate satellite and space services in facilitating broadband penetration; regularisation of the activities of all satellite operators including Space station operators as well as earth station operators; as well as issuance of landing permits to space stations beaming signals over Nigerian territory.  E-waste, IT counterfeiting To combat the harmful effect of electronic or e-waste, a regulation on e-waste and guidelines was unveiled during a stakeholder engagement in Abuja. NCC sees e-waste as electrical or electronic equipment that is waste, including all components and consumables that are part of the equipment at the time the equipment becomes waste. Apart from their solid and non-biodegradable nature, some of the toxic elements found in e-waste include lead, mercury, lithium and other ozone-depleting substances. “A recent report by World Economic Forum (WEF) indicates that electronic waste (e-waste) is now the fastest-growing waste stream in the world. It is estimated that this waste stream spiked by about 48.5 million tons in 2018. In Africa, the challenge is even direr. In a fast-paced telecoms industry where speed and capacity define the networks, rapid advances in technology make it easier and convenient to change malfunctioning gadgets than to repair them. Also, illegal and predatory e-waste value chain, which encourages the movement of e-waste from developed to the developing countries, adds another layer to the global challenge of handling e-waste,” Dmabatta said. The global concern for the regulation of e-waste is two-pronged. The first is the acute awareness of the hazardous properties and the potential risk on human health, as well as their capacity to degrade the environment. The second is the business case and vast potential for wealth creation in recycling e-waste into more benign and productive uses. Due to low GDP per capita/low income and quest for information, it is estimated that 75 per cent of electronic devices and equipment imported into the country are irreparable and toxic junk. In line with its regulatory mandate and to keep pace with efforts at managing e-waste-related issues, therefore, the Commission developed the draft regulations on e-waste. Prof Dambatta said the draft regulations represent a holistic intervention aimed at providing clarity and delimiting the responsibilities of various stakeholders in the e-waste value-chain within the telecommunications industry.  Telcos listing on NSE The listing of telecoms companies on the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) is one of the high points of the year. NCC had insisted that listing on the NSE was one of the terms of settlement of MTN fine. Any wonder then that the telco was the first to list followed by Airtel.  NCC said it was in line with its regulatory activities captured in the Nigerian Communications Act (2003) and other subsidiary regulations to promote investment, create a level-playing field for all licensees, ensure compliance to existing telecoms laws and facilitate delivery of high service quality to consumers. “The MTN listing has helped to translate into action, an important objective of the Commission, which is to promote local investment and ownership in the telecom sector. Also, with MTN shares available in the capital market, it is expected that Nigerians will buy shares and by purchasing the shares of MTN, they will be financially empowered and be socially transformed. “It is instructive to state here that one of the greatest advantages of the MTN listing, facilitated by the NCC, is the implication it has on opening up the telecoms industry for greater investment profile it gives Nigerians the opportunities to invest in publicly-quoted companies like MTN, which is the leader in the telecommunications industry in the country and easily one of the continental leaders. “In addition to benefits to the consumers, we all know that telecoms is a capital-intensive industry and of late, we found out that the inflow of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into the sector has not been as much as it used to be and there is so much for the telcos to still do in terms of expansion and this expansion requires capital. Industry issue bordering on poor quality of service is being partly traced to lack of sufficient infrastructure covering the entire country. “One of the benefits of MTN listing and those of other operators to follow, therefore, is that the telco would be able to raise capital for expansion which, in turn, will bring about an improvement in the quality of service and quality of experience for the consumers of telecoms services, which is also a cardinal function of the Commission.”  SIM registration review  During the year, subscriber identity module (SIM) card registration was tinkered with to boost national security. Over 24 million registered subscriber records were scrubbed/cleaned-up (deduplicated) via Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) pursuant to its mandate to establish a credible telephone subscriber database. The database was also upgraded with additional features such as “Add SIM” and “Update SIM” functionalities as well as the National Identity Number (NIN) field for an improved SIM registration process and ease of harmonisation with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) when the NIN regulations come into force. NCC is collaborating with the NIMC towards the implementation of the Mandatory Use of National Identification Number Regulations which stipulates the mandatory use of NIN for transactions such as SIM registration, reactivation/retrieval.