Dr Joel Akande  It the start of this write up on skin disorders, I mentioned that hair is part of the skin structure. More so, hairs form part of the structure of the skin that makes us all handsome or beautiful as well as helping to regulate the temperature of our body. One of the most troubling disorders in both men and women is excessive or hair growth in unwanted or in unusual areas in women. In both men and women, loss of hairs, in the head especially, is frequently concerning. Huge amount of money is spent annually by womenfolk to have a lot of head hairs. On the other hand, men loathe to have hair loss. In the meantime, babies may appear to have loss of hair. In the first 6 months of life, such hairs are regrown. These two scenarios will now be discussed as medical disorders and not necessarily an illness. Alopecia is loss of hair. Hair loss may be patchy, diffuse, scarring or non-scarring.  In hair loss that doctors call circatrical, the loss is complete destruction and irreversible. What causes hair loss?  Circatrical or irreversible hair loss may be due to burns, from chemical application, radiation or thermal or fire burn to the scalp. Infections by bacteria or fungus may permanently destroy hairs.  Diseases such as cellulitis or lupus may cause irreversible hair destructions. Further, fungus infection, syphilis, may result in non-permanent hair loss (non-circatrical).  Total hair loss may be due to in-born errors, hereditary vitamin D deficiency and malnutrition with iron deficiency, hair breakage, syphilis, cosmetics, ionizing radiations and many others. Hair loss may indeed be genetic as well as on race and family origin of the individual. Age and level of male hormones in a person may account for their hair loss. This is why eunuchs hardly ever become bald.  In women, hair loss may be due to high male hormone levels in the individual.  In other conditions, our lifestyle contributes to hair loss. The chemicals that we apply on hair matters. The style of hair making in women may pull hairs and contribute to alopecia.  Alopecia in Men: Men begin to suffer from hair loss or alopecia from early age as low as in their 20s.  The alopecia may be total or partial receding from the front towards the back.  On the other hand, hair loss may begin at any time from after puberty. Pattern of alopecia in women is different from men. What can you do to prevent hair loss?  You should stop any creams or chemicals that are causing the hair loss and change hairstyles. If infection or malnutrition is contributing to the hair, get to your doctor for support as soon as possible. Treatment:  Modern technologies and advances in medicine can help regrow some type of hair loss. Hair re-implantation is available for some sufferers. Yet, in some individuals, medication, antiandrogens may help recover their hair loss. Hypertrichosis: This is an unwanted and excessive hair growth especially in undesirable parts of the human body. When this condition occurs in women, it is called hirsutism. It means develop male-like hair patterns. Example, facial hair growth in women is unwanted. Hirsutism in women may show up in such places as chin, upper lip, chest, abdomen, hands and legs. What causes hirsutism? This is caused when there is an excessive male hormone circulating in the female. It usually is an indication of an underlying disorder of the individual’s hormones. This may be due to hormone imbalance in the ovaries, or thyroid, adrenal or pituitary gland.  Also, there may no specific cause. Yet, there are some medications that may cause excessive hair growth in women. Treatment of hirsutism: It’s important to have a clinical evaluation to exclude some internal diseases. General measures include cosmetic measures you could take include shaving regularly or what is called epilation of the hairs. Epilation can be physical or use of laser or suitable chemical or epilation waxes.  More medical measures may be taken by specialist doctors to address the internal medical disorders that is responsible for the abnormal hair growths. 