By Ambrose Nnaji To enhance customers’ pleasure and convenience, Mr. Bigg’s, the Quick Service Restaurants (QSR) run by the United Africa Company (UAC) of Nigeria Restaurants Limited, has launched new customer suits in Lagos as well as other states across the federation. The company launched its model restaurant at Northwest Filing Station at Victoria Garden City (VGC), Lagos, in a grand event which took place during the week. The store, which houses both Mr. Bigg’s and Debonair’s Pizza counters, is delicately designed with great interior finishing, which is an embodiment of taste, class and convenience, with wooden wall features, suspended pendants lightings, floral arrangements and wall paintings, all conveying a strong desire to offer customers  high level of class and comfort. With ample space in downstairs and upstairs lobby, which offers the coziest setting, it is tastefully finished with comfortable and relaxable sitting options in loosed seats, bunks and timber bench seats. The kids play area also offers the perfect fun experience for children. The vibrancy of the model restaurant is seen in all of Mr. Bigg’s new outlets in different parts of the country including Challenge in Ibadan, Onitsha, Owerri, Idiroko and other outlets in Amuwo Odofin, Ijeshatedo and Abule Egba in Lagos State.  The new outlets, according to the Marketing Manager, UAC Restaurants, Mrs. Ethel Mba, depicts excellence, offering a wide variety of meals ranging from local to continental dishes, which according to her, is the heritage of Mr. Bigg’s. According to her, many customers who had visited the new restaurants were impressed and excited with the excellent service experience which she said largely addressed their eating needs. With over 75 restaurants in Nigeria, the company, Mba said, was a response to consumers’ need for quick, fresh and tasty meals as they become increasingly busy and with less time for cooking. Mr. Bigg’s specialties, she said, included meat pie, scotch egg, doughnut, peppered and barbeque marinated chicken, celebration cakes and different types of confectionaries, while Nigeria delicacies included soups like Efo riro, Edikiakong, Fisherman Soup etc. Mba stated that while the customers are excited by this new development, the company’s management expressed its commitment to passionately drive the business objective of growing and sustaining a positive image for the brand and building consumer loyalty.