Friday, November 29 was a gathering of crème de la crème at serene Ogbe-Ijoh Warri Kingdom in Warri Southwest local government area of Delta State to pay final respect to Chief Tom Ogbeyerine Oloiki Izoukumor. For children of the late Ijaw patriarch from oil-rich Ajuju community in Warri Southwest and Ayakoromo (Bomadi LGA), especially Chief Favour, the immediate past commissioner representing Ijaw ethnic nationality on the board of DESOPADEC, the event was a testament of their late father’s good name and validation of the biblical adage that “a good reputation is better than an expensive perfume; and the day you die is better than the day you are born.” The rain of exaltation of the late Izoukumor patriarch was started by Delta State deputy governor, Kingsley Otuaro, who extolled his “bravery, hard work, discipline advancement of educational interests, patience, philanthropy and passion for truth”, which have telling impact on the world around him. “Yet, what stuck out were his exemplary fear of God and peace building initiatives which made him a rallying point for a better society.” His first son, Favour, described his late father as a disciplinarian, but a loving father. “He was a role model, a guide, teacher and pathfinder, who pointed us in the right path. He was a vineyard-planter who sowed the best fruits in his children and community. He was hardworking, dedicated father.” Sen. James Manager led federal lawmakers comprising Julius Pondi and Thomas Ereyitomi, as well as Emomotimi Guwor, and Emma Sinebe members representing Warri Southwest and Patani state constituencies. In attendance too were Dr. Paul Bebenimibo, who took-over from Izoukumor in the DESOPADEC board; PDP South Senatorial Chairman, Julius Takeme, Emma Amgbaduba, Mr. Eric Omare, a lawyer, Francis Omare, Sunny Enagboma and Dcn Arex Akemetubo and a host of others. In his vote of thanks, Chief Favour Izoukumor, who spoke on behalf of the family, described Chief Tunde Smooth and Group Capt Ebiye, as “two very wonderful and superlative uncles.” The late Olioki Izoukumor was survived by three wives, Madam Camaroo, Vote and Birialade, 16 children, 75 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. He died at the ripe age of 84 years.