By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie  Over 200 teachers from various public schools converged on the Education Resource Centre, Ojodu, to review the Lagos State Senior Secondary Schools Unified Schemes of Work towards ensuring conformity with present-day realities and the envisaged turn-around of the education sector in Lagos State. The programme was flagged-off by the Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, who praised the teachers who were specially selected for the week-long review programme. She said the schemes of work are statutory reference materials essentially needed in public and private schools to plan their daily, weekly and termly subject lessons and other academic activities. “It is pertinent to note that every secondary school in Lagos State uses the schemes of work for their daily teaching and learning process. No effective teaching and learning can take place in schools without recourse to it since all topics and scopes of the lessons to be taught are drawn from it,” she said.  Underscoring the importance of the review, she said learning could not be confined to archaic and outdated curriculum, especially in an era driven by technology.  She said teachers are to prepare students for the future work place, equip them with necessary core skills and technology to help them compete with their counterparts around the world. Mrs Adefisayo listed the six core skills crucial to development of the future-ready child as critical thinking, problem solving, creativity and imagination, citizenship, communication and collaboration, digital literacy, leadership and personal development. In her address, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Abosede Adelaja charged participants to see the programme as an opportunity to instill new skills and learning experiences for the 21st Century. She said it was the prerogative of the Curriculum Services Department to review and produce the schemes whenever there were changes in the curriculum by the Nigeria Education Research Development Council (NERDC). She said the recent adjustment in the National Curriculum by the NERDC, and the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) in most subjects, necessitated the need for the schemes to be reviewed and produced before the 2019/2020 Academic Session commences. 