The police in Lagos have arrested a Sergeant, Lukmon Akanbi for shooting a 39-year-old man Ramon Adeniji to death. The incident occurred around 4:20 am on Friday near Eko Atlantic, Victoria Island during an argument. Sergeant Akanbi, attached to Victoria Island Police Station, was said to have pulled the trigger on the man, an unarmed civilian, who was returning from an event. It was gathered that the victim was rushed to Naval Dockyard Hospital on Ahmadu Bello Way where he was confirmed dead on arrival. According to police spokesman Bala Elkana, the Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu has ordered the arrest and prosecution of the culprit. He said the policeman with force number 448407 violated professional standard on the use of firearms. “The Police Sergeant was arrested and detained at the Provost Department, Command Headquarters, Ikeja. He was subjected to internal disciplinary proceedings known as Orderly Room Trial. “He was arraigned before the Adjudicating Officer on three counts charge of Discreditable Conduct contrary to Paragraph E(3) First Schedule, Unlawful and Unnecessary Exercise of Authority contrary to Paragraph Q(2), and Damage to Articles contrary to Paragraph D(1), Police Act and Regulations, Cap 370 LFN 1990. “The Sergeant was found guilty of all the charges and awarded punishment of dismissal from the Nigeria Police. He has been handed over to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba for prosecution in conventional court. “The command condemns the unprofessional conduct of the dismissed Sergeant. The Commissioner of Police condoles with family and friends of the deceased person and assures them that justice will prevail. “Supervisory officers of erring policemen will henceforth be held vicariously liable for the misconduct of their men. This is part of the measures put in place by the no nonsense Commissioner of Police to curb incidents of professional misconduct and engendered accountability in the system. “The CP avows that no case of professional misconduct, human rights violations and abuse of powers by police officers will be tolerated.”