Adeola ADEBIYI AS I sat on my wheel chair in the front of a mirror, I realise how ugly I now look with half of my face melted away, and one of my arms which suddenly disappeared over night. I looked at the wall and my eyes landed on my portrait, which was given to me by a friend on my twenty sixth birthday. I looked so beautiful in it with the white set of my teeth dazzling like the moonlight. Comparing the lady in the portrait with the lady seated on the wheel chair, the difference is just too clear and I wonder if this is how one’s life changes. I am Adesua Arowojobe and very beautiful lady back in those days. I am the first in a family of five; three girls and two boys. I will regard my family as a poor one, we find it hard to eat twice in a day and my parents only strove hard to see me through the university. During my university days, I had a boyfriend whom I tried all I could to be faithful to; even though I can’t point at anything he did or brought for me. I’d call his type of relationship a parasitic one because he was the one getting from me even though I didn’t have much. We lived together throughout my stay in school because my parents couldn’t raise enough money for me to get an apartment. This made me get pregnant for him several times which resulted in several abortions. Type of friends I was keeping then was the big girls on campus. They advised me to leave my boyfriend (Tony) and join their aristos click. My boyfriend knew they wanted to win me to their side, so he tried his best to separate me from them. But I had to become close with them again when I needed money to write my project which my parents could not afford. One of them, whose name was Toyin helped me with the money but not without reminding me of the benefit I would get if I join them. I finished from school and went for my service, I was posted to the north while Tony did his own in Lagos. Towards the end of my service year, I noticed that my boyfriend’s attitude towards me has changed. I questioned him but he gave his reasons. After the Youth Service, Tony didn’t stay long before getting a job and after two months he told me he had to quit the relationship because he needed someone that is very much younger than I was. It wasn’t easy forgetting him, but I had to try because I desperately needed a job then and the frustration my mum was giving me then was unbearable, she lamented any time I went to her for transport; fare for me to go interviews. My younger ones were also looking up to me, so I decided to forget about tony and tightened my belt so as to get a good job. After a year and four months I still could not get a job. I got fed up and was determined to go for whatever opportunity that came up. One fateful day, while coming from a place where I went to check the result of an interview I went for, I ran into Toyin with whom I had lost contact since we graduated. She was so happy seeing me and I was too. She was in a jeep and was really looking okay. She took me to an eatery where we talked. She told me one of our friends now lives in UK where she owns a boutique; another is happily marries to a senator while she (Toyin) is into importing and exporting of lace materials. I told her my story and she blamed me for everything. She gave me her address and told me to come and her so that she could arrange something for me. Two days later I went to see her and she told me that she has called one of her Alhaji’s and that the man was willing to meet and help me. She gave me some money to get myself some clothes,. During that weekend we both travelled to Abuja, where I met the Alhaji; Taofeek a friend to her man-friend. Alhaji was so nice to me, he provided all I needed and transformed me over night. I forgot all about getting a job and waited for Alhaji to fulfil his promise of setting up a business for me. My family were so proud of me and my mum advised me to marry Alhaji if he proposed. Things were going on smoothly until the day Alhaji Taofeek and Toyin’s Alhaji told us (Toyin and I) that they had a party they would want both of us to attend with them. They went before us, but sent one of their drivers to come and pick us. The party was in the north, so we had to travel far. It was on our way going that we had a fatal accident that claimed the life of both Toyin and the driver. I was just lucky to be alive. My parents had to spend all they had gained from Alhaji on me to be in the condition that I now am.