 Ex-CJN Walter Onnoghen Former Chief Justice of Nigeria(CJN), Justices Walter Onnoghen’s controversial exit followed a petition against him by one Dennis Aghanya for not properly declaring his assets as required by the law. A section of the public had claimed that the initial suspension of Onoghen, who was nominated for the position in October, 2016 and confirmed in March, 2017 by the Presidency, was greeted with public outcry because he was the first Niger Delta indigene that would occupy the office of the CJN after Justice Ayo Irikefe of blessed memory, who was the CJN in 1987. His suspension followed an order by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) where he was arraigned in January. The former CJN eventually resigned from office in April after he was convicted by CCT, albeit, he was billed to vacate office in December 2022 when he would clock 70. He was also barred from travelling in November after his international passport was seized by the country’s immigration service while he was travelling to Ghana with his family.   Ex- Petroleum Minister Diezani The mult-ibillion dollars graft charges filed against the former Minister for Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke in 2015 dove-tailed into 2019 and endured throughout the year with several forfeiture of assets order obtained by the EFCC against the former minister. Since 2015, Diezani has been holed up in the United Kingdom(UK) where she is also facing probe for alleged money laundering, corruption and bribery. She was slammed with several corruption charges bordering on alleged diversion of N23 billion in Nigeria. Among others, the EFCC had accused her of conspiring with  some NNPC officials to conceal $ 153 million in a new generation bank. The anti-graft agency had also accused her of lavishing a princely sum of N14.5 billion on assorted jewellery which she has since forfeited after they were recovered from her home in Asokoro area of Abuja.  Former AGF Mohammed Adoke The ex-Attorney General and Minister for Justice, Mohammed Adoke,was hunted by the EFCC for his alleged controversial role in the Malabu oil deal. EFCC charged Adoke and two mul- tinational oil companies to court for an alleged $1.1billion Malabu Oil scam. Adoke was accused of illegally transferring more than $800 million allegedly meant for the purchase of the OPL 245 to Dan Etete, Malabu Oil. The Federal Government had also on March 2, filed fresh charges against Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Company Limited and Agip Nigeria Exploration Limited for alleged complicity in the Malabu $1.1 billion scandal. Adoke, Etete, Aliyu Abubakar, ENI Spa, Ralph Wetzels, Casula Roberto, Pujatti Stefeno, Burrafati Sebestiano and Malabu Oil and Gas were charged alongside the two multi-national oil companies. The embattled ex- AGF, however, reportedly denied any wrongdoing in the illegal transaction. He returned to the country after years of being in self-exile abroad and has since been detained by the EFCC pending his possible arraignment in court.  Abdulrasheed Maina After several years in hiding, former Chairman of the Presidential Task Team on Pension Matters (PRTT), Abdulrasheed Maina, was arrested by the State Security Service (SSS). Maina and his 20-year-old son, Faisal, were arrested at the Pennsylvania Avenue Hotel, Utako, Abuja, on September 30. The SSS said Faisal tried to resist arrest by pulling out a pistol. He was, however, disarmed and arrested. The secret security outfit handed over Maina and his son to the EFCC which thereafter charged them with various offences before the Federal High Court in Abuja. The father is accused of diverting N100 billion of pension funds while his son is accused of operating an account he used to divert various sums of money, including N58 million. The two men were arraigned by the EFCC on October 25 on separate charges. They pleaded not guilty. The younger sister, Fatima Abdullahi, told the Federal High Court in Abuja that she was not aware of the companies and bank accounts opened in her name by her brother, Abdulrasheed Maina. Maina will remain in the Correctional Centre in Kuje, till January 2020.  Orji Uzor Kalu Former Abia State governor, Orji Uzor Kalu, a few weeks ago joined two former governors, Joshua Dariye of Plateau State and Jolly Nyame of Taraba, as an inmate in a correctional centre. Kalu was convicted by the Lagos Division of the Federal High Court on Thursday, December 5, 2019 and sentenced to 12 years in prison for N7.65 billion fraud. He is currently held in custody at the Ikoyi Prisons in Lagos. The ex-governor was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on July 11, 2007. He was tried alongside his company, Slok Nigeria Limited, and Udeh Udeogu, who was Director of Finance and Accounts at the Abia State Government House during Mr Kalu’s tenure as governor. He was later released on bail and he accused the Olusegun Obasanjo administration of persecuting him during and after his tenure in office. In spite of the 12-year prison sentence, the Senate refused to declare Kalu’s seat in the red chamber vacant. The Senate spokesperson, Godiya Akwashiki, said Mr Kalu’s seat will not be declared vacant until he (Mr Kalu) has explored all the legal options available to him without success. Kalu was representing Abia North in the Senate before he was sentenced.  Allen Onyema For the proprietor of Air Peace, Chief Allen Onyema, 2019 has been a mixture of joy and sadness. Onyema endeared himself to the hearts of the citizens and the international community when he offered to send an aircraft to evacuate Nigerians who were stranded in South Africa during the xenophobic attacks free of charge. Onyema walked his talk as the airline helped hordes of stranded Nigerians in South Africa to return home at no cost. Elated by the gesture, the House of Representatives honoured the Air Peace CEO who was admitted into the special plenary session in his honour and accorded a standing ovation by the members of the Green Chamber. Then came the unpleasant news that Onyema was indicted by the U.S. authorities on charges of fraud and money laundering. He was alleged to have moved more than $20 million from Nigeria through United States bank accounts in a scheme involving false documents based on the purchase of airplanes. The company’s chief of administration and finance, Ejiroghene Eghagha, was charged with bank fraud and identity theft in the same case. Onyema and Eghagha immediately denied all the charges, vowing to vigorously defend themselves. The embattled chief executive officer of Air Peace was later quizzed and had his passport seized by the EFCC.  Nnamdi Kanu Self-exiled leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, together with his family members was twice thrown into mourning with the demise of his father and mother within a space of four months. For the leader of the proscribed pro-Biafra group, 2019 would remain indelible. Kanu had in October announced the death of his mother, Ugoeze Sally Kanu, in a video he posted on his Facebook page. The video revealed that his mother passed on in Germany on August 30, 2019. Less than two months after Kanu announced the demise of his mother, IPOB’s spokesman, Emma Powerful, announced the passing of the father, HRM Eze Sir Israel Okwu Kanu. IPOB in the statement blamed the death on the trauma suffered by the deceased during the invasion of their home by Nigerian soldiers on September 14, 2017.   Omoyele Sowore Publisher of Sahara Reporters, an online news medium, Omoyele Sowore, stirred the hornets’ nest early in the year when he led a movement known as RevolutionNow to clamour for a takeover of the Buhari administration on account of what he described as the incompetence of the government. Before then, a faction of the African Action Congress (AAC) which he founded had suspended him as the party’s chairman. The Department of State Services (DSS) arrested him during the protest, accusing him of threatening the harmony of the nation by plotting to overthrow a democratically-elected government. He was charged to court and later granted bail by the Federal High Court in Abuja on the condition that he surrendered his inter national passport within forty-eight hours. But the DSS refused to release Sowore, claiming ignorance of the court order. Their refusal to release Sowore led to protests within and outside the country. Early this month, the court again set Sowore free, confirming that he had settled his bail terms. The DSS eventually released Sowore after 124 days in their custody, but less than 24 hours after he regained his freedom, the DSS rearrested him in the premises of the Federal High Court in Abuja; an action that sparked public outrage. The publisher, human rights activist and politician finally regained his freedom on Tuesday after about 142 days in detention.  El-Zakzaky Leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheik Ibrahim El Zak zaky, breathed some air of freedom in the third quarter of the year when a Kaduna State High Court granted him and his also detained wife, Zeenatu, bail to visit Mandeta Hospital in New Delhi, India for treatment. The court ordered that they should be released by the Department of State Services to go for treatment and return for the continuation of their trial after they were discharge from the hospital. El Zakzaky had experienced prolonged detention despite several court orders that he should be released. The couple eventually flew out to India on an Emirates flight from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja. Barely four days after arriving India for medical treatment, El Zakzaky discharged himself from the hospital and returned to the country. He reportedly condemned the situation in India and the tough restrictions by security operatives deployed to the medical facility, stating that it was worse than what he and his wife experienced in Nigeria A Kaduna State High Court early this month ordered the Department of State Services (DSS) to transfer El-Zakzaky and his wife to the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Kaduna. The Kaduna State Government is prosecuting the IMN leader and his wife for culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disruption of public peace, among other charges, to enable their lawyers and doctors have easy access to them. The Federal Government had earlier proscribed the Shiite group following pockets of violent protests that claimed a number of lives by the followers.  Sambo Dasuki Former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, finally regained his freedom on Tuesday December, 24 after spending more than  four years in detention. Dasuki was arrested on December 1, 2015,by Nigeria’s State Security Service (SSS)  over allegations of illegal possession of arms and misappropriation of $68 million arms fund. Despite being granted bail by four different High Court judges in Nigeria and ECOWAS Court as at  November last year,   Dasuki was denied freedom. After regaining his freedom on Tuesday, the former NSA dismissed allegations that he was having issues with President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that he stopped appearing in court as a protest against the government’s disregard for the court orders about his bail.   Busola Dakolo versus Pastor Abiodun Fatoyinbo The founder and pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly(COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, was accused of rape by Bukola, the wife of popular singer, Timi Dakolo. Busola, a celebrity photographer, had revealed in a viral interview that she was  raped by the embattled clergyman when she was 16 at her parents’ palatial home. Notable celebrities in the country, including President Mohanmadu Buhari’s wife, Aisha and  ace comedia, Alibaba, threw their weight behind Busola, commending her courage to speak out several years after she was allegedly raped by the clergyman. Others like a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri,  however, backed the controversial COZA pastor. Fatoyinbo was subsequently exonerated of the rape charges by a Federal High Court in Bwari, Abuja, in a suit filed by Busola in September, where she accused Fatoyinbo of rape, adding that the alleged action of the pastor as well as his denial in a statement adversely affected her marital sex life. The court also ordered Busola to pay N1million for wasting the court’s time.   Senator Elisha Abbo representing Adamawa North senatorial district early in the year incurred the wrath of Nigerians when a video of him assaulting a nursing mother repeatedly at a sex toy shop in Abuja went viral. The assault, which reportedly occurred on May 11, 2019, occurred in the presence of an armed policeman who rather than help the victim, arrested her. In his defence, the embattled senator said the incident happened before he became a senator, adding that the about 10-minute video was incomplete. He also said he was at the shop because his sister had been assaulted there but that part was of the video was edited out. Following the outrage that greeted the assault, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, set up a seven-member ad-hoc committee to investigate the matter. Thereafter, the police in Abuja, after a directive by the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, commenced investigation into the matter. The Commissioner of Police for the FCT, CP Bala Ciroma, asked Senator Abo, the victim as well as the police orderly to report at the Command headquarters for investigation. Abbo, however, was remorseful, apologising to Nigerians, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and women in general.  Senator Abdullahi Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi is the Deputy Chief Whip of the ninth Senate. He often impresses those that chance to meet him with his characteristic confidence and intelligence. He is sharp and ready to bare his mind concerning issues he feels strongly about. Though highly cerebral, his academic training and work experience may not have adequately prepared him for the position he now occupies as a legislator. As a veterinary doctor, his primary responsibility is that of the wellness and welfare of the animal specie. But occupying a political office that requires making laws that have bearing on the welfare of human beings in particular and society in general requires certain inter-personal skills and socio-engineering which learning in advanced care for animals may not have adequately imparted. His academic background may have made him a first choice as spokesman of the 8th Senate where he largely focused in making the previous session of the upper chamber beholden to the people. He can be applauded for this. This time, he said he saw something sinister in the growing phenomenon of hate speech in the country and has promptly formulated a bitter pill to cure it. But Nigerians, even though not averse to his motive, have become livid with the remedies he is seeking. His bill provided for “death by hanging” for offenders. If Abdullahi’s ‘pill’ was meant to whip unruly cattle into line, its harsh provisions would have been somewhat justified. But human beings are not plagued by the docility of the lower animals. They are wont to cry out whenever they sense potential a danger that might militate against their welfare and interests. He sponsored the same Bill in the 8th Senate, and by the time the attendant storm it generated abated, the Bill was missing in action. However, probably buoyed by the rhetoric of some officials of the present administration concerning fake news and hate speech, and their quest to curtail critical comments that may portray the government in bad light,  Sen. Abdulllahi reintroduced the Bill in the 9th Senate. The Bill titled: “National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speeches (Establishment, etc) Bill, 2019”, has continued to draw flaks from within and outside the country. The Bill currently being considered by the ninth Senate provides that “A person who uses, publishes, presents, produces, plays, provides, distributes and/or directs the performance of any material, written and or visual which is threatening, abusive or insulting or involves the use of threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour commits an offence if such person intends thereby to stir up ethnic hatred, or having regard to all the circumstances, ethnic hatred is likely to be stirred up against any person or person from such an ethnic group in Nigeria. Any person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable to life imprisonment and where the act causes any loss of life, the person shall be punished with death by hanging.” There has been a groundswell of opposition, including demonstrations, against the Bill both in Lagos and Abuja. Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, has advised the Senate not to market murder as a way of life to future generations. Soyinka, in a statement titled, “Is it now cool to kill? – An anguished letter to Nigerian lawmakers” said: “Remember that example, especially by leadership, is a hundred times more explicit and enduring than the mere propagation of any counter-doctrine. Do not embrace the awful responsibility of impressing homicide as a way of life on the ethical template of the coming generations. The chickens have a way of coming home to roost. I may be wrong of course, but their droppings already foul the common air we all breathe. Just take a deep breath, look around you, and re-consider.” A former Minister of Education and co-founder of #BringBackOurGirls Movement, Oby Ezekwesili, called on women to raise their voices against the passage of the hate speec h bill. Ezekwesili who spoke at a national women’s dialogue tagged: “WOMANIFESTO2019: What the Nigerian women want” held in Abuja, described the bill as “anti-people.” According to her, the Bill seeks to stifle the voice of Nigerians, especially women, so that they cannot make their voices heard in the face of women marginalisation, particularly in politics. “Women will be the worst for it if the hate speech bill is passed because it is against the freedom of expression. The hate speech bill that they are talking about is not going to help the Nigerian woman when we are trying to say what women want,” Ezekwesili said. Things have not remained the same for the Niger North Senator since Nigerians got a whiff of what lies ahead for hate speech mongers. The embattled senator has appeared on a number of television programmes, granted press interviews and issued releases all in a bid to stave off unrelenting public attacks against the toxic Bill. He has even gone as far as marketing alleged support for the Bill by an American envoy. Senator Abdullahi had in a statement quoted a Political Officer of the Embassy of the United States of America, Jerry Howard, as describing the Bill as an “’impressive’ piece of legislation needed to address issues of discrimination, hostility and violence in Nigeria.” He recently told reporters that while he has received ‘tremendous support’ for his patriotic efforts, he equally received “threats”. Following the unrelenting attacks against the Bill by Nigerians, the Niger North Senator apparently beat a retreat when he promised to expunge the “death by hanging” provision in the Bill. He said in a statement that the death penalty as proposed in the bill for anyone found culpable of hate speech that leads to the death of another, would be amended by the Senate before being passed. “We have followed closely arguments for and against the hate speech bill, and seen the reason why some kicked against it. Given the high respect which we have for Nigerians, we will make amendment to the death penalty aspect that most Nigerians objected to, so that a bill that meets their expectations is passed into law. Clearly from the conversations, Nigerians agree that we have a problem in the society today as a result of hate speech which has fuelled so many killings and violence, and is responsible for cases of depression and suicides,” Abdullahi said.