The cost of cybercrimes continues to grow yearly.  It is feared that if unchecked,  cybercrime  might be the only factor that will increase high global business mortality,  LUCAS AJANAKU reports.  The costs  businesses suffer as a result of cyber crooks are alarming. IBM Corp’s Chairman, CEO and President, Ginni Rometty, said  cyber crime may be the greatest threat to every company. According to Steve Morgan,  cyber security writer, three years ago, The Wall Street Journal estimated the cost of cyber crime in the U.S. to be approximately $100 billion. The estimate disputed other reports, which pegged the numbers by as much as 10 times higher. In 2015, the British insurance giant, Lloyd’s estimated cyber attacks on businesses to cost as much as $400 billion a year, which includes direct damage plus post-attack disruption to the normal course of business. Some vendor and media forecasts over the past year has put the cybercrime figure as high as $500 billion and even more. Morgan said between 2013 and 2015, cyber crime costs quadrupled, and it appeared like there will be another quadrupling from 2015 to 2019. Juniper research predicted that the rapid digitilisation of consumers’ lives and enterprise records will increase the cost of data breaches to $2.1 trillion globally by 2019, increasing to almost four times the estimated cost of breaches in 2015. The World Economic Forum (WEF) also said a significant portion of cybercrime goes undetected, particularly industrial espionage where access to confidential documents and data is difficult to spot.Those crimes would arguably move the needle on the cyber crime numbers much higher. Cyber Security Specialist at Cisco, Corien Vermaak, said in this outgoing year, it was reported that cyber-crime breaches are up 11per cent year on year and has increased with over 67per cent in the last five years, according to a study done by Accenture in its Ninth Annual Cost of Cybercrime Global Study. Some countries are seeing alarmingly high increase numbers, the United States (U.S), Germany and China leading the cost of cyber-crime list. According to the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC), South Africa has seen an increase of over 100per cent in mobile banking application fraud alone. I would like to explore what we see from a breach research perspective. According to the Australian government initiative, Stay Safe Online, 50per cent of attacks could be blamed on web-based and insider attacks. This coincides with the IBM annual X-Force Threat Intelligence Index 2018, the company concluded that “inadvertent insiders” accounted for two-thirds of all the records that were comprised. Our workforce is also one of the largest contributors to damages suffered during attacks as the loss of productivity is mostly understated. According to the Cisco CISO Benchmark Report, user awareness is a critical focus for CISO’s globally. Vermaak said a ransomware attack takes place every 14 seconds and its estimated to increase to 11 seconds in the next two years. Which sector is the largest target? “According to three different reports, I could find in my research the small business sector is the main target,” Vermaak said. According to the Australian government, 60 per cent of targeted attacks struck small and medium businesses. On average across all the research, more than 50per cent of attacks are focused on smaller businesses. “If we look at other sectors and larger enterprise businesses it is clear the financial sector is mostly affected. According to the Ponamon report published by Accenture, the financial sector suffers the greatest losses per breach in term of costs. “If we look at the actual cost per breach, the jury is out based on my research. I do however think the industry is at a place where we can roughly quantify what these breaches are costing organisations. “If we look at the figures reported by SABRIC, the South African financial sector places the cost of a breach at $1.2-million per breach,” Vermaak said. The Australian government says according to reported cyber-crime research, an attack costs in access of $270, 000. Germany is said to be in the top three in terms of what cyber-crime is costing the country as a whole, reporting $50billion in losses. “These numbers seemed thought-provoking however I like to break things down into something I can understand – so here goes my possibly simplistic view on the matter of cost. ‘’Based on all the reports I read in researching this topic one of the most prevalent attack vector is Web-based attacks and all the reports and research teams make a noble attempt to quantify some of these breached in a statistically relevant way. “If we look at web-based attack, it is reported that the cost per breach varies between $53,000 up to $114, 000; if we apply a very simplistic average it is $83, 000. If you take into consideration that 60 per cent of attacks are focused on the small business sector – this figure is alarming. The question beckons if a small or medium business can survive an attack at that cost. “If we discuss the cost of attacks, it will be irresponsible not to mention the added risk of regulatory fines. Even though all of the reports mention how the cost per attack is calculated mentioning business interruption, information loss, revenue loss and equipment damage among other factors,” Vermaak said. Most attacks target data and if the company is found to not have done what is reasonably expected to protect their data these attacks could be subject to fines by the data privacy regulators. If this step is taken further like in the case of Equifax, the cost of a breach can also increase due to civil procedure or corrective actions required to assist affected data subjects. “If I were to quantify the risk I would have to mention the record British Airways fine of $230 million,” the cyber security specialist said. British Airways was fined by the UK’s data protection authority, ICO in 2019 for a breach that harvested personal and payment data. “We want to see how this cost of a breach can escalate. Let’s take the example of Equifax. Circling back to Equifax, they were fined only £500,000 ($625,000) in the UK for the 2017 breach, which was the maximum fine allowed under the pre-GDPR Data Protection Act,” Vermaak added. This, however, stands at over $700 million the settlement with the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and all 50 U.S states that claimed damages against Equifax are added. Vermaak said: “The cost of a breach is increasing as you read this and the likelihood of breaches is following suit. We elevate focus as the world takes data privacy more serious and we are seeing some large fines by data privacy regulators globally.” The rhetorical question then is: “Does this cost risk warrant only four to nine per cent of IT budget?”  