Damisi Ojo Reports  A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2020 election in Ondo State, Prince Godday Erewa, has expressed his readiness to win the ticket. He boasted that he would eventually defeat the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Erewa, an Industrialist, also urged the leaders of the PDP  to unite ahead of the election. He spoke with reporters after a meeting with the leadership of the party at the PDP state secretariat in Akure,the state capital. According to him, party members must be steadfast and resilient ahead of the election. His words:Our party members must remain steadfast and not lose courage. At this point in time, we need to be in one mind for us to win the election ahead. We have all it takes to win the election.”. Speaking on his preparedness for the primary, Erewa said he has traversed the three senatorial districts to visit respected stakeholders, adding that he has garnered the experience to outshine his fellow contenders in the party. He promised to organise door-to-door campaigns across the state, if given the opportunity to run. Erewa promised to transform the state by providing good roads, infrastructure, employment for the youths, special welfare packages for the aged, facilities for market women and timely payment of salaries to civil servants, if he is given the opportunity to govern the state. The Ilaje born-industrialist also donated cash and food gifts to party members, saying it is the best thing to do to sustain the party. He added: “This is a festive period, it’s a period of joy; a period we exchange gifts. At this period, the party is not in power. It is our responsibility as aspirants to show love to our party men from the state to the ward level and I believe by next year, by his grace, when we get to government house, we will continue bringing this.” The PDP chairman, Clement Faboyede, thanked the aspirant for the visit and also commended him for the gift items which were worth millions of naira.