 THERE is tension in Benin City, the Edo State capital and its environs, especially Ugbowo area, following renewed cult wars that have claimed over 30 lives. The killings have occurred in parts of Benin City and its environs. Sources said the ongoing cult war is between Maphites, Black Axe and Eiye confraternities. A video online showed how the heart of one of the victims was removed after he was killed. The rival cults have displayed the weapons they acquired to shoot their victims. One of the cultists with a pump action gun was heard saying he wanted to kill “all the Ayes.” He said: “Na violence make men dey run. All my army brothers why dem dey drop. I wan pursue Aye comot for Benin. Make dem package car for me make I use drop many.” Another group displayed an English made pistol with cartridges. A background voice in the video said it was a new arrival to finish off the enemies. It was gathered that the recent cult clash began from the University of Benin when a 200-level student, Moses Adeshina, was shot dead at a jeans carnival at the Faculty of Social Sciences. The killings made the school management to ban social activities on campus. Several people have been brutally killed. Police Commissioner Mr. Lawal Jimeta, in a chat with reporters after a security meeting with Governor Godwin Obaseki, said that the command and other security agencies were working to prevent a planned clash by rival cults in Benin metropolis. He said he has studied the videos by a rival cult and will take action on the threats. Jimeta noted that a committee has been set up to tackle cultism with a view to checkmating cult-related activities. Command spokesman DSP Chidi Nwabuzor said it is difficult to ascertain the accurate number of those killed in the cult clashes. He, however, said videos on the social media should be ignored, as their authenticity could not be immediately verified. Nwabuzor said police crack teams were in the streets carrying out raids with a view to arresting suspects. 