No one is sure anymore whether industrial harmony on the scale that existed in the 1960s and 1970s can ever be restored to Nigerian universities.  The reason is that the educational revolution needed to reform and reinvigorate the sector has not been forthcoming. Worse, the long-running activism embarked upon by ASUU in the past decade or two to draw attention to declining standard of tertiary education in Nigeria has met with only qualified success. Nigerian universities have merely inched forward in the face of giant leaps by universities in other parts of the world. It was, therefore, expected that both ASUU and the federal government would be preoccupied with restoring tertiary education, nay, education as a whole, to its pride of place and finding ways to ensure peace on campuses and improvement of standards. When the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is not protesting infrastructural decay and poor funding, the government is busy thinking of schemes and policies capable of upsetting the little peace existing on the campuses. One of such schemes is the recent introduction of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), a scheme designed by the federal government to eliminate irregularities and systematise salary payment of all federal workers. It is the latest controversy stoking anger in the university system, driving a wedge between ASUU and its employers, and between the union and a new faction of the union, Congress of University Academics (CONUA). The controversy is needless. Hopefully, reason will prevail and peace and harmony will be restored. Going by the unitary culture of the federal government, it wants all its workers on the same payroll system. It hopes that this would eliminate corruption, standardise information regarding all its workers in one databank, and make irregularities few and far between. ASUU on the other hand insists that autonomy, given the peculiar and liberal culture of universities, does not sanction the uniformity and regimentation the government is proposing. Besides, says ASUU, IPPIS is neither fool-proof nor the corruption and irregularities it purports to fight impossible to fight by other unique and university-sensitive means. But ASUU has not received the support it expects from the wider community, and the government itself, sensing the tide of battle has turned in its favour, has doubled down. Predictably, the attempt by the government to force enrolment into the IPPIS has been destabilised by some resistance so far. CONUA has embraced the scheme, and some university workers are also enrolling. But a majority of ASUU members have resisted the scheme, promising to fight the imposition and disruption to the bitter end. Students, the public and even the media that should be sensitive to the issue of university autonomy have refused to endorse ASUU’s position. It seems the government has managed to convince most Nigerians that the scheme would in fact help check corruption, exorcise ghost workers, and help detect other irregularities in the federal workforce. Perhaps. But there is nothing to indicate that corruption and irregularities cannot be fought and eliminated within the boundaries of university autonomy. It is abnormal and unhelpful to insist on only one way of achieving that goal. Nigeria is being undone by excessive conformity, uniformity and centralisation. Let the federal government, for all it can, unify the payroll of civil servants. It is their prerogative. But let them also intensify measures needed to insulate universities from the tedium and sometimes paralysis that frequently, if not constantly, stymie the operations of the civil service. It is certainly not true that without IPPIS, the financial and administrative resources of universities cannot be efficiently allocated. It is surprising that rather than find ways of regenerating the universities and declaring an education emergency that would lead to better funding for tertiary education, the government’s ‘bright’ but meddling idea is to see how to suck in everybody into one unified whole. That is not what the country needs. After all, since the beginning of the Fourth Republic, there has been no educational vision worthy of the name. That students and parents are tired of interrupted academic calendar does not absolve the government of a huge portion of the blame for destroying education. Students may protest the imminence of another strike, parents may cavil at ASUU’s insistence on autonomy, and CONUA may seize the opportunity to concretise their presence in a distracting turf war, but the blame for falling standard rests squarely on the government. IPPIS will neither restore the desired standard nor augment university funding, regardless of the impression the government may wish to give about the menace of stolen funds and ghost workers.