 I  start today with a quotation from one of William Shakespeare’s plays and look at the topic of the day in the light of the   quotation. The quotation says ‘Who  steals my purse steals trash. It  was mine,  it was his and has been slave to thousands; but he  that  steals my name,  robs   me of that  which not enriches him,  but makes me  poor indeed’ . I  will   go on to analyse  events in four nations  this week in the context of that quotation. The  nations are Nigeria, the USA, the  UK   and the scourge of the Arab  nations, Israel.  Actually  I am  going to radiate around the leaders and leadership style in these nations .In all  these  nations,  politics       provided  a stern test of character, integrity  and leadership.  Whether the  leaders in these nations passed  or failed the test is  the  meat  of today’s observations. This week in Nigeria, the government released two well  known  Nigerians  who  have been detained  against  court orders for their release. In the US, the Speaker of  the US House  of  Representatives, Nancy Pelosi played a smart, suspense   and   delay  game in sending the Impeachment of the US President Donald  Trump to the senate for trial until after the Xmas holidays,  ostensibly   to  put pressure on the US president and prolong the opprobrium   and pain  of Impeachment.  In the UK a new Parliament played ball on Brexit to make it irreversible in consonance with the new   electoral mandate given the PM, Boris  Johnson  at the last  December 12 elections  won roundly  by his party, the Conservative Party. In  Israel  PM Benjamin Netanyahu who  refused to resign after he was found liable on corruption charges by his own Attorney  General, faced an  unexpected leadership  contest  from within his  own  party,  an  unthinkable thing hitherto. Until  the release of  Dasuki  the former NSA of the Jonathan government  and the  journalist Sowore the Buhari  government was carrying  an  albatross of lack  of respect for the rule of  law around its neck. Its  character on laying claim to running a democracy was not impeccable because   democracy  is  predicated on the rule of law.  Releasing  these  gentlemen  after courts ordered  their release on what ever terms, was always  the right thing  for any democratic  government to do. A  spokesman  for the Attorney General  of the Federation, Abubakar  Malami SAN,  said that the release was on compassionate  ground,  but that  was balderdash,  because  mercy  and leniency  are not strangers to the law in a genuine democracy. The  AGF  must  however  be commended for the professional  way  he fended off  the stench of lack of respect for the rule of law, that  oozed  infamously  from the government he has served diligently so  far,  in pursuing  the rule  of law in spite  of  the avoidable toll  gates and obstacles placed in his way by politics and politicians.  So  far  the AGF, even  though he belongs to  two  of  the three most  lucrative professions in Nigeria today  namely  the law, politics  and evangelicalism, has  managed to keep  his head, as well  as his feet  firmly on the ground in ensuring that his government does not lose its way in the pursuit of the rule of law.  That   surely   is a fine  silver  lining on our  cloudy,  ever  turbulent, legal  and political horizon. In  Donald  Trump’s  Impeachment  saga,  the Democrats  obviously   did  not  want Trump  to have the  quick   acquittal  he envisaged in the senate.  Indeed  Nancy  Pelosi has stage  managed a situation whereby Trump could   not have a peaceful Xmas  holiday because of the smear of Impeachment  dogging him. But  Trump  will  have his way in court in the senate where he will  be acquitted all  things being equal,  given his party’s  majority   there. Anyway,  I wonder  why the Democrats  have  not  charged Trump  with lying or  mendacity  because  that is what CNN journalists like  to  talk  about  him  all  the time,  and with regard   to the verbosity  of his  tweets  and their   truth.  Yet  Trump  will  not be the first American  President on the mendacity   or    lying   trail.  The  Independent  Counsel   who  handled Bill Clinton’s  Impeachment  once noted that Clinton  was brilliant lawyer who  could ‘lawyer  the truth ‘ . Clinton was  impeached but  not removed from office by the senate. In  the case of another president who  resigned before being impeached  his  honesty or lack of it  became his legacy.  So  bad was Nixon’s  reputation or character that an  observer once noted on a statement by Nixon that –   ‘ However  casual his commitment to the truth was  over his career, on that  particular  occasion Richard Nixon spoke the truth. I  am  sure that Democrats in the US cannot  be even  that generous on Donald  Trump and yet they  have not charged him with mendacity. Yet  Bill Clinton  survived impeachment  and became popular  while his Vice President  Al  Gore  who wanted to succeed him failed because  he distanced his presidential  campaign  from Bill Clinton because of his impeachment. In  the UK the PM, Boris Johnson  should be commended  in  reading the  political  climate right and calling for an election to change a hung Parliament  successfully. His two  predecessors  failed  on that  account.  David  Cameron thought  the electorate would vote to remain in the EU and got it  wrong as they voted to leave thus creating Brexit  and Cameron resigned.  Theresa May got it wrong  in terms of timing and called an election to boost her Party’s  majority but got a paper thin majority as her political  reward as Parliament  went hostile with her EU deals and she too had to  go. Boris Johnson  got the signals and timing  right on Brexit  and won a massive  majority that  confirmed that the electorate wanted an endorsement of Brexit. The election results showed majority  of Britons believed Boris Johnson  and not those who called him a liar on Brexit  statistics.  That is a reward  for  character and credibility  which  are assets  that all good  leaders globally  should cultivate in the pursuit  of democracy  and the rule of law. Unfortunately, that is not the case in Israel where  the PM Benjamin Netanyahu  is clinging  to  power without character. He  could  not  win a majority  to form  a government  and his nearest opponent refused to form a coalition government with someone found  to be corrupt  by his own Attorney  General.  The obvious thing for  Netanyahu   to  do  is to resign and face his corruption  charges. He  faces  a challenge  from  his own  party for leadership  but  hopes to win by a large majority  to  boost  his leadership status. But  what  is leadership  without  character?  It  is like a king walking  naked in broad  daylight. Surely  the people of Israel  should tell their PM  bluntly  that an  actor leaves the stage when the ovation is loudest. Once again Long live the Federal  Republic of  Nigeria.  The  AGF  must  however  be commended for the professional  way  he fended off  the stench of lack of respect for the rule of law, that  oozed  infamously  from the government he has served diligently so  far,  in pursuing  the rule  of law in spite  of  the avoidable toll  gates and obstacles placed in his way by politics and politicians