Two persons were reported killed on Monday during a clash between rival gangs at Aguda in Coker-Aguda Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos. The clash between rival gangs in Itire and Aguda, which lasted for several hours, forced many residents to stay indoors while businesses closed abruptly. It left many injured. The streets in Aguda were deserted as only broken bottles and damaged vehicles were visible to all. Many who plied the route to their offices made use of alternative distance routes. The commotion left the activities of the Coker-Aguda LCDA paralysed as many council workers hurriedly left home. Those leaving outside the council vicinity waited till about 3:30pm when the situation had died down before going home. The rival hoodlums chased the opposing each other with weapon such as cutlasses, bottles, knives among others. Some held guns. The fight seemed to be a reprisal attack from the clash, which resurfaced on Sunday night. Residents of Enitan, Adetola and Willy Omiyi appealed to the security agencies to beef up security in the area over fear of another reprisal attack. They want those fuelling the crisis arrested and brought to book. Men of the State Anti-Cultism and Robbery team later moved into the troubled spots and arrested some of the perpetrators of the violence. The age-long rival clash between Itire and Aguda has claimed several lives and property worth several millions. It was alleged that some members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and the Road Transport Employment Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) were involved in the fracas. But NURTW Lagos State Council Secretary Comrade Seyi Bankole denied the involvement of their members in the melee. Bankole told The Nation that the commotion was between street boys. “It was a fight between the area boys. It has nothing to do with the union. “We have asked our members and they told us that none of them was involved in the crisis. “Even the one that was reported to have been killed was not at the scene of the incident. He is alive. People should not report what is not true,” he said. Lagos State Police Command said it has arrested 75 suspects in connection with “Ijesha- Aguda, Supremacy Battle in Surulere Area.” The command’s Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said 22 shops and some vehicles were vandalised. He warned that the command under the present Commissioner of Police has devised means to deal decisively with the hoodlums disturbing peace of the society. “On Sunday at about 11:41am, Police received a distress call that there was a gun shot at Pako, Aguda Canal. On getting to the scene, Police found the corpse of a 27-year-old Alagodo, a follower of one Eluku who is currently in prison over violent crimes. “On Monday at about 08:30am, some hoodlums from Ijesha, in what looked like a revenge mission stormed Aguda in large numbers with cutlasses, bottles and stone and other dangerous weapons. “The hoodlums destroyed about 22 shops and vandalised some vehicles.  Some hoodlums from Aguda equally reacted. “One of the hoodlums from Aguda known as Timileyin Odulana was injured by the hoodlums from Ijesha. He was rushed to military hospital Yaba, where he was confirmed dead. Police teams from the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants, Rapid Response Squad, Area C Command Surulere, Aguda and Ijesha Divisions were mobilised to the scene. The situation was brought under control. “Seventy five suspects from both sides were arrested. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court.” The command, he said, has intensified patrols and surveillance within the affected areas.