As global energy consumption continues to increase, operators of the oil and gas industry are increasingly exploring ways to expand production to meet the growing demand. Application of digitalisation and emerging new technologies, according to the industry will make expansion of production, reports CLINTON OBETO.  Since the 1970s, the petroleum industry has served as a major source of income to Nigeria’s economy.  Also, due to the advancement, growth and diversity of the world, the need to create new sources of energy to serve the growing demand becomes imperative. It is in view of this that the petroleum industry seeks to broaden production. It has also led the petroleum industry turn to digitalisation, innovative ideas and new emerging technologies that would increase performance, efficiency and ultimately reduce cost. New technological breakthroughs in the area of digitalisation now make it possible for oil and gas companies to operate efficiently, improve gains and reduce cost. The need for wide application of the new emerging technologies by oil and gas operators took centre stage the 2017 and 37th annual international conference of the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE) with the theme ‘Expanding Nigeria’s Petroleum landscape: Digitalization, innovation and emerging new technologies.” The immediate past President of NAPE, Mr. Ajibola Oyebamiji, discussed the influence of digitalisation and emerging new technologies to the oil industry and how it is helping the industry’s current operations and opening up opportunities for new business models.  He stated that with cloud competing in digitalisation, operators are able to solve, process and manage large bundle of data, and it also enables the gathering of large volume of data, sorting it properly and making an advanced analysis. This enables experts make decent forecast and define gaps in business models. Currently, Internet of things (IoT) is helping to capture and transmit data from free roles and remote location enabling decision making, uploading, monitoring of well site equipment, reduction of operation costs, detection of gaps and anomalies in the petroleum industry. It also helps to analyse and visualise data into different platforms as well as secure use of equipment and facilities and helping to avoid future equipment failure or potential security issues. Also, sensor technology aids companies track and gather data, track equipment usage and maintenance, which helps to boost operations and optimise production. Through digital transformation, it is possible to create a work environment, create business advantages and boost personnel resolution  because it is widely accessible and usable. “The petroleum industry has always been in the forefront of developing technology to support her objectives, growing from 2D to 3D and 4D technologies. The industry is developing and moving on new and existing technologies to continue to ensure the world’s energy needs are being met safely, sustainably and competently through the best of means. He noted the importance of government, policy makers and stakeholders to have the knowledge of how technological changes can be deployed and sustained as key driver in guaranteeing energy security and diversification especially in Nigeria. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kolo  Kyari, who was the keynote speaker at this year’s annual international conference held in Lagos, said it was innovation and new technologies that led to the recent discovery of oil in Kolmani Well 2 in the Gongola Basin. The discovery remained the biggest indication that modern technology helps in accelerating oil find. He said for over 35 years, the industry could not find oil in the frontier basin but with the deployment of latest technology and innovation using the best and latest  digital solutions, the NNPC was able to strike oil in that region. 