The red meat sub-sector is important. Although the rise in meat consumption provides opportunities for investors, some challenges are making its production inefficient. It is for this, among others, that the Lagos State government is repositioning the red meat industry. DANIEL ESSIET reports.  Despite being a major contributor to the national gross domestic product (GDP), activities in the beef sub-sector remain low, underdeveloped and  hardly attracts investments. This is attributed to several factors. They include poor breeds and animal husbandry, inadequate financing and multiple market intermediaries who depress earnings of butchers. In addition, poor infrastructure and meat handling practices have increased the challenges faced by the operators. One area seriously affected is the red meat sector. Although the meat market has huge potential, there are growth challenges. Weaned on ineffective feeds, coupled with poor disease resistance and limited veterinary care, many animals fail to yield their true economic or nutritious value. Given the challenges, the country struggles to satisfy its increasing appetite for meat, according to experts. Notwithstanding, experts believe the sector has the highest potential for reducing poverty, creating employment and contributing to economic growth. One of them is Udeme Etuk, who believes that there is need for enhanced support to transform the sub-sector into a highly profitable commercial sector that provides high returns to the farmers and contribute to the national economy. Etuk believes the red meat value chain has potential to unlock employment and entrepreneurial opportunities. He maintained that there is a huge market and job opportunities in the beef value chain, saying the demand for beef products is increasing due to surge in urbanisation, growth and changes in consumption. He urged the government and the private sector to deal with the hurdles faced by the beef stakeholders. Etuk’s submission is supported by the Lagos government, which is already taking steps to boost red meat supply as a source of protein. To become a significant player, he stressed that the beef industry has to ensure that the animal health status and product traceability systems are properly implemented and functional. An effective red meat traceability system, according to him, is needed to improve the sector’s credibility in the eyes of the consumers. Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal said the industry is a money spinner with opportunities for investment. Given the immense opportunities of the nation’s swelling dietary needs, he said local and foreign investors would show their interest, if the enabling environment is created. He said to reposition the industry for profitability, future investments would be required across the value chain, including facilities, abattoirs, feed production, transport and equipment supply. To address this, the state government has inaugurated a strategy to sanitise the red meat value chain and ensure consumption. One of the measures is by encouraging butchers to adopt traceability and identification system. Farmers and butchers will partner to keep data on husbandry, including feeding, vaccinations and treatment. The commissioner, who began the pilot scheme at the Ita Faji Market, Lagos Island, said the state is embarking on a strategy with the acronym, ATM – Abattoir, Transportation and Market, saying the plan was in conformity with Section 4 of Cap M3 Meat Inspection Law of Lagos State and the 4th Schedule (Regulation 33) of the law, adding that it would not only ensure the consumption of wholesome meat by the people, but it would also facilitate export of red meat to other countries. Lawal explained that it was important for the government to raise the standard of slaughtering, processing and marketing of red meat for hygiene. “The three part strategy is to guarantee the safety and health of the populace by ensuring that only certified animals are slaughtered and wholesome beef is available in our markets. “This will also boost the international recognition of beef from the state thus opening up an export portal which will be a source of foreign exchange to the state government,” the commissioner said. He wondered why some African countries, including Botswana, Namibia, Ethiopia and Kenya, could export meat to Europe, Saudi Arabia and other countries, while Nigeria, a naturally endowed and big country, could not. “For instance, many African countries like Botswana, Namibia, Ethiopia and Kenya export meats to Europe, Saudi Arabia and other third world countries. Indeed, Botswana alone exports about 9,000 tonnes of meat to Europe and 10,000 tonnes to Saudi Arabia. Botswana enjoys unlimited preferential market access to the European Union, competing with meat exporting countries like Brazil. So, rather than only producing meat for local consumption, Botswana exports meat that is hygienically tested and proven to meet the European market standard. “In the same vein, Namibia also exports meats to about 18 European countries and China. The meat exports industry is quite lucrative and a sure revenue generator for the country. The question is: how are our brother African countries able to do this while naturally endowed and big country like Nigeria could not?’’ He said the answer is because of the reforms they have been able to carry out in their red meat value chains which enabled their red meat to meet the international standards. He said series of engagements were held with critical stakeholders like the Butchers Association in the state, market women and men, concessionaires and franchisees, whose cooperation should be courted for the successful implementation of the reforms exercise in order to ensure the success of these reforms. “Let reiterate that the main objective of this reform is to promote wholesome and hygienically processed beef for the populace. From the handling of these animals up to the processing stage where they are taken to the market for sale, proper care and attention must be ensured to achieve the goals of the state government to produce healthy meat for consumption and export,” the commissioner pointed out. He said the state government would not condone any act of uncleanliness in meat processing and delivery. He said the government has started a campaign to crack down on illegal slaughter slabs, processing and selling of dead, diseased or suspected diseased animals, adding that facilities caught violating animal health and food safety laws will face strict penalties and each case will be handled by the police and the various security agencies. In addition to ordering a crackdown on illegal slaughterhouses, he said the state would set up enforcement committees to monitor the treatment of animals used for meat. He urged butchers to acquaint themselves with market standards and comply, if they want to benefit from the industry, saying that abattoirs supplying various markets would be identified and classified in order to link the butchers with the markets using a color tag/code. He said butchers would be issued veterinary meat hygiene certificate for health and wholesomeness after inspection of carcass by veterinary officers. “A 21st century Lagos wants to raise the standard of slaughtering, processing and marketing of red meat in the state. “The purpose is to ensure the safety and health of the populace by ensuring that only certified animals are slaughtered and wholesome beef is available in our markets.  “This will also boost international recognition of beef from the state thus opening up an export portal which will be a source of forex, this is what Lagos is pushing for, a conducive and hygienic environment in the red meat value chain,” the commissioner said. “The proposed flow of activity is to ensure that only certified carcasses leave the approved abattoir. “The products are tagged and traceable to butchers/vendors and markets by use of coded EKO meat vans. “This strategy will prevent street hawking of beef and sale of beef from illegal abattoirs as coded markets will be made public and the populace would be advised to only purchase from same,” he said. The commissioner said the issuance of veterinary meat hygiene certificates for health legal as it is backed by Schedules 4 and 5 Cap M3 Meat Inspection Laws of Lagos State. He added that no butcher or meat vendor would be allowed to sell without the certificate. “We are setting up monitoring team comprising officials of the Ministries of Health, Environment and Water Resources, Special Duties and Inter Governmental Relations, Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas. “Monitoring, enforcement and compliance unit of Ministry of Agriculture such as Veterinary Microbiologists and Pathologists has since been constituted in order to ensure the effective implementation of the reforms,” he said. The commissioner said the activities of abattoirs would be standardised in the state such that all the approved abattoirs would not only be functional, hygienic and conducive for slaughtering activities but adhere to the Standard Operating Procedures. “There must be continuous availability of clean water supply and there must be prompt disposal of waste from the abattoirs. “Any person in possession of beef for sale without our certificate will have such products confiscated and the person prosecuted,” Lawal said. He said the beef markets would be upgraded to comply with international standards and that modern and standard butchering tables with removable tops would be introduced. “Our long-term strategies will involve livestock identification and traceability system, such that an animal can be traced from the cattle market to shops. “The use of meat boxes instead of bags to convey beef cuts and the setup, recall and return strategies if there is a problem with a particular batch of meat. “Others are the creation of a butcher’s database/log so that details of butchers in the state are captured and numbered accordingly. “Introduction of batching and coding system using the identity of each butcher that will allow easy tracking and tracing of abattoir activities and establishment of functional prototype meat shops across all the divisions in the state,” he added. The Chairman, Lagos Island East Council, Kamal Salau-Bashua, said the council would close down unlicensed slaughterhouses.