She is in pains, helpless, distressed and at the precipice of death except assistance comes her way fast. This is the present state of a once agile and brilliant mother-of-one, Mrs Funmilola Oniyelu (Nee Olasinde), as she battles for life following a very traumatic kidney failure she suffered in 2015 after undergoing an untidy Caesarian section. Oniyelu, a 2004 Demography and Social Statistics graduate from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, is currently lying helplessly with her skins bearing signs of torment on the beds of Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre, Abuja, looking up to kind-hearted Nigerians to come to her aid by raising the N17.9m required for her kidney transplant. In April 2016, the once bubbling and buoyant Osun State indigene, had her first kidney transplant in Abuja and was back to life. But the kidney failed again in July 2019 and according to her consultant nephrologist, Dr. N.K. Anya of Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre, Abuja, she needs to urgently undergo another surgery this December to keep any hope of long term survival alive. In a letter made available by the hospital, “Funlola presented a failed allograft and is currently on a dialysis for possible renal replacement. The best treatment option for chronic kidney disease in terms of improved quality of life and long term survival is a kidney transplant which involves surgically grafting a kidney from a suitable donor to the patient to restore normal kidney function.” “The treatment plan stated above requires substantial funding and the details of the financial implications, which includes the cost of both donor and recipient evaluations and eventual surgery,” the hospital said. Entreating Nigerians to come to her aid financially, Mrs Oniyelu, who has sold almost every valuable to be alive, has been vulnerable to series of infections that make her very uncomfortable and has been going through dialysis twice in a week to be able to pass out urine. To help Mrs Oniyelu live an improved life again, donations can be sent to Zenith Bank Plc, Acct Name  – Funmilola Cecilia Oniyelu, Acct No. – 1005109260 Her spouse, Gbenga Oniyelu, can be contacted on 08033946603.