President Muhammadu Buhari, Osun State Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South West on Sunday congratulated the former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, on his attainment of the age of 70, wishing him more glorious years ahead. The president’s congratulatory message was conveyed in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, in Abuja. Buhari said in the statement that he was joining the family, friends and associates of the former governor in celebrating the milestone. He particularly congratulated Ajimobi ”for his many years of outstanding achievements in both the private and public sectors, leaving behind a legacy of excellence in the places where he had been at the helm of affairs, especially in the insurance and oil sectors.” According to him, Ajimobi’s forthrightness, patriotism and passion in working for the good of the country and humanity will continue to stand him out as a resourceful manager, exemplary leader and patriot. The President also commended the former governor for his contributions to the nation’s development, both as a senator and governor. He urged Ajimobi to remain steadfast in love and loyalty to Nigeria, and use his wealth of knowledge, wisdom and experience to contribute more to the country’s development, especially through mentoring of young leaders. Governor Oyetola described Ajimobi’s tenure as one that brought about reform and vision to governance in the state. He further said that Ajimobi embarked on unprecedented infrastructure development in the state and redefined the urban status and development profile of Ibadan and other major cities in the state. The governor, who personally visited Senator Ajimobi in his Ibadan home on Sunday, ahead of today’s anniversary, also noted that the former governor left the governorship of Oyo as an achiever and the first ever to be re-elected for a second term, thereby breaking the 32-year-old jinx in the political history of the state. Also, APC Zonal Publicity Secretary, Rt. Hon. Karounwi Oladapo, in a statement, said the APC National Vice Chairman, who doubles as the Chairman of the APC South West Caucus, Pastor Bankole Oluwajana, said Ajimobi deserved all accolades that would be poured on him on this special occasion of his 70 years birthday. The statement reads: “Ajimobi has a very intimidating credentials as a private sector player, particularly in the oil business and in the public service sector. He has always been a record breaker in Oyo State. He was a Senator and a two term governor of Oyo State. These are records that no other person can claim or rival in Oyo State. Yes, Oyo State has produced many House of Representatives members, many Senators and Governors, but only Abiola Ajimobi has a unique record of ruling Oyo State for eight years at a stretch and the first person to break the jinx of a second term of governorship in Oyo State. This earned him the title of ‘KOSELERI GOVERNOR’ in Oyo State.” The South West APC leaders said they were proud of Ajimobi’s records of service in Oyo State, adding they valued his contributions to the growth of APC in the state. They prayed God to give him health and more wisdom to render more services to the party, the people of Oyo State and Nigerians in general.