Our Reporter Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday issued a strong warning to those bent on attacking law enforcement agents. Harsh punishment, Sanwo-Olu vowed, awaits anyone who attacks men of the State’s law enforcement agencies in the line of duty. The Governor sent the warning on Monday at the residence of the late Ola Ganiyu Oyeshina – the slain officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), who died last Saturday after an attack on him by two trailer drivers in Sifax-Iganmu area of Apapa. The late Oyeshina, 33, hailed from Osun State. He was said to be an orphan. Sanwo-Olu led a delegation comprising his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and members of the State Executive Council, on a condolence visit to the late Oyeshina’s family house on Oni Street in Surulere.  The Governor described the attack on the LASTMA officer as “mindless and callous”, saying the Government would “thoroughly prosecute” the arrested culprits to send a clear signal to those taking penchant in attacking law enforcement agents in the line of duty. He wondered why some members of the public would take pride in brutalising those working to make the society better and safe. He vowed to make Lagos inhabitable for those inclined to disobey the State’s traffic laws. He said: “This is a very sad development. We have lost a fine officer and gentleman, who was a victim of unnecessary attack in the line of duty. It is sad that our society has got to a level where people that commit their lives lawfully to helping us to live in a better society become victims of mindless brutality. “As a Government, we are sending a strong signal to say enough is enough. In the last 48 hours, there has been heavy brutality on LASTMA officers while carrying out tasks assigned to them by the Government. We will not stop implementing our laws. We will do everything to ensure the perpetrators of this evil act are brought to book and get harsh punishment.” The Governor advised residents to be law-abiding and engage security operatives with respect. He said the death of the LASTMA officer would not deter the State’s officials in carrying out their statutory duties. Sanwo-Olu and his deputy personally met with the victim’s aged foster parents, Pa Oyewole Fashola and Mrs. Muslimat Fashola, and the rest of the family members. Mrs. Fashola, who raised the deceased since he was 10 years old, said the death of late Oyeshina had put the family in shame, pleading with the Governor punish the perpetrators. She thanked the Governor and his entourage for visiting the family, describing the gesture as act of responsibility. Commissioner for Special Duties, Hon. Wale Ahmed, led a short prayer session held for the deceased at his family house.