Ibeabuchi JEWEL  The demise of Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke who is well known and loved by majority (especially in Africa) came so sudden that shocked Christians all over the world. Although Reinhard Bonnke is a popular evangelist, it will be fallacious to say that every single person knows him. This article will help those that lack the knowledge of Reinhard Bonnke. 1- Reinhard Willi Gottfried Bonnke starting from his early life was born on 19th April, 1940 in Konigsberg,East Prussia, Germany and died on Saturday, 7th December,2019(79 years). 2- Though his parents and siblings names are yet to be disclosed, Reinhard Bonnke is the son of an army logistics officer and a pastor. 3- He became born again after his mother spoke with him about a sin that he committed at the age of nine. 4- After his experience of Baptism in the Holy Spirit as he said he had, he left for missionary work in Africa at age of 10. 5- Reinhard Bonnke studied at The Bible College of Wales in Swansea and pastored in Germany for seven years after graduation. 6- Bonnke got married to Anni Suelze in 1964 and have three children and eight grandchildren. 7- He began his ministry in Africa being principally identified preaching in Lesotho in 1967 after he claimed to have had a recurring dream featuring a picture of the map of Africa being spread with red and heard the voice of God crying “Africa Shall Be Saved”. 8- He has a Facebook page named ‘Christ for all Nations.’ 9- In 1974, Bonnke founded the mission organisation ‘Christ For All Nations’ (CfaN) which was first based in Johannesburg, South Africa and now relocated to Frankfurt, Germany in 1986. CfaN now has 9 offices across 5 continents. 10- Bonnke ministry started with tent meetings that was capable of accommodating 34,000 people.
The tent was later destroyed in a wind storm. 11- His ministry has recorded over 75 million people who gave their lives to Christ. 12- Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke wrote over 40 books including an autobiography titled ‘living a life of fire’ which is about stories of his life including accounts of his childhood growing up during the second world war and living in prison camps to his early years in ministry and how he believed God used him to bring the Gospel of Salvation to Africa. 