With Victor Akande  THE announcement by Ladima Foundation of its partnership with the DW Akademie, and launch of the Ladima Film Academy in Lagos with two short courses in January, is the way to kickstart 2020. The second short course taking place at the Ladima Film Academy will be an introductory course in documentary film, taking place from January 28 to February 1, 2020. Documentary filmmaking is an important and powerful tool for telling meaningful stories and enabling voices and perspectives to be heard. This introductory overview into the history and evolution of documentary filmmaking trends and styles will be presented by Rama Thiaw and is presented in partnership with STEPS (www.steps.co.za). Rama Thiaw is an African filmmaker and screenwriter. She is known for her 2009 documentary Boul Fallé, la Voie de la lutte and The Revolution Won’t be Televised that has premiered in the Berlinale 2016, in the Forum Section, and won the Fipresci Prize, a special Mention of the Caligari Preiz and The Jury Prize in the last JCC- Cartage Films Festival. In 2019, she has launched and curated, the first edition of ‘The Sabbar Artistics of Dakar’, a multi-disciplinary event dedicated to African women, Afrodescendants women and Black women, in Cinema, Literature, Contemporary Art, Socials Sciences & Research, Dance and Performances. Evolution of Aesthetic in Documentary Film from the 68’s to the Present / Perspective of Point of View.  The course is expected to be based around watching iconic and pivotal documentary films from the last 60 years followed by intense discussions and debates.  The films selected reflect the evolution of documentary film over the decades with a particular focus on marginalised voices, documentaries for social change, and on the voices of women. The course will also look at the critical element of perspective and point of view. There is no difference between a documentary film and a fiction film, except that in a fiction it is actors who play the characters and in the documentary it is individuals who play their own character. Documentary filmmakers must understand the various types of perspective and which is best for their film. The course is for both aspiring and professional documentary filmmakers who want to broaden their understanding of the genre and sharpen their own storytelling skills. DW Akademie is Deutsche Welle’s center for international media development. As a strategic partner of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), DW Akademie carries out media development projects that strengthen the human right to freedom of opinion and promote free access to information. DW Akademie also works on projects funded by the German Foreign Office and the European Union – in approximately 50 developing and emerging countries. The course, they say, is only open to women filmmakers and applicants must be able to attend all five days in full from January 28 to February 1, 2020. Applicants are advised to email edima@ladima.africa with information including their name, age, contact phone number, professional CV, and 1-2 paragraphs about why they should be selected for the course. The course which is free, if application is sent by January 8, 2020, will run daily from 9am – 5pm at the Ladima Academy campus in the Nigeria Film Corporation Premises in Ikoyi.