Nigerian players who want to be part of the maiden Valuejet Para Table Tennis Open have expressed their readiness for the event, stating that they will not be push overs. Already, eight countries including host – Nigeria have been confirmed for the three-day tournament holding at Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium. Nosiru Sule, Atlanta 96 Paralympic bronze medalist, said the tournament is a good opportunity for upcoming players to showcase their talents. “I am so excited that we are hosting this kind of championship for the first time in Nigeria. There is no doubt that the presence of teams from Egypt and South Africa will make the tournament competitive. I am sure Nigerian players will not play second fiddle to the visitors,” Sule said. For Faith Obazuaye, a silver medalist at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, this is another platform for her to display her talents particularly against the visiting players. “When I won the class 10 in Egypt earlier this year, many people doubted my ability and now that we are hosting an international tournament, I hope I can show them what I am capable of doing. It promises to be exciting in Lagos and I am eagerly looking forward to make the podium,” the African champion stated.
Tajudeen Agunbiade, who had already secured his passage to Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games, said the tournament would give him the opportunity to shake off rustiness after the qualifiers in Egypt earlier this year: “We have not been able to compete internationally since the qualifiers in Egypt.”
Apart from Nigeria, Egypt and South Africa, other teams coming to Lagos include Morocco, Cote d’Ivoire, Benin Republic, Togo and Ghana. From December 16 to 18, the ITTF classifier will grade the players to their classes while the tournament will kick be held between December 19 and 21 with the top three in each event getting prize money for their efforts. Forty four titles will be competed for in class 1 to 10 in singles and team events in men and women event.