The Federal Government said the solid minerals sector is expected to provide jobs, prosperity for Nigerians.
It said the expectation is seen in the importance President Muhammadu Buhari placed on mines and steel sector as one of the major focus of his administration with commensurate support in funding. Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, in a statement said it will not be possible if the sector is operated as an all comers affair. He said the importance of professionalism in the extractive industry cannot be overemphasised to reap the benefits associated with the mines and minerals sector. Adegbite spoke in Abuja at the 9th induction ceremony of the Council of Nigerian Mining Engineers and Geoscientists (COMEG). He said: “The importance of professionalism in the extractive industry cannot be overemphasised, as such, all hands must be on deck to ensure that COMEG succeed in its mandate as the foremost regulator of the professions in the sector. You are all aware of the importance President Buhari has placed on the mines and steel sector as one of the major focus of his administration with commensurate support in funding. “In return, this sector is expected to provide jobs and prosperity for Nigerians. This cannot be possible if it is operated as an all comers affair. I therefore call on all and sundry to close ranks with the council so that Nigeria and Nigerians will reap the benefits associated with the mines and minerals sector. “The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development under my leadership will continue to support the council with policy and guidance and indeed all ways possible to ensure that COMEG functions properly and discharges its responsibility of regulating, controlling and enforcing the provisions of the laws and regulations guiding mineral exploration and exploitation. To this end, I have directed that a substantive Registrar be appointed as soon as possible. When this is done, I will also ensure that COMEG gets a befitting office accommodation to carry out its operations. In other words, what I am saying in essence is that the Council will be repositioned and rejuvenated for growth and effective service delivery.” President Nigerian Society of Mining Engineers, Prof. Benjamin Jatau said 500 inductees were inaugurated at the ceremony. He said: “Today, we are glad to witness the induction ceremony and inauguration, oath taking and public registration of over 500 inductees including individual professionals and institutional organisations in extractive industries. “However, this ceremony was long overdue, but we are internally grateful for the success recorded today. The hallmark of true professionalism is the freedom and ability to exercise unbiased judgment. In the light of this, it is pertinent that we examine how well COMEG has fair for the past 19 years. According to extractive industries, COMEG has not fully met the needs of its professionals.”