 The Nigerian Institute of Management (Chartered) on Thursday inducted Mrs. Pat Anabor as the 22nd President and Chairman of Council. She will be running the affairs of the institute for the next two years. The event, which took place at the Muson Centre, Onikan Lagos, also saw Engr. Ibrahim Inuwa, a former President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) inducted as Deputy President of the NIM, and  Dr. (Mrs.) Christiana Atako, FNIM, a former acting Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), inducted as the National Treasurer. Mrs. Pat Anabor, an alumnus of California State University, San Jose, California, United States of America has been  a fellow of the Institute since 2002 and she was also the institutes former National Treasurer, In her inaugural addres, Mrs Anabor said that the institute, under her watch will build on the legacies laid by her predecessors. According to her, “Our administration will thrive on continuity and consolidation as we intend to sustain all the good programmes of our predecessors. We shall therefore build on the legacies and sound foundations laid by them. “Our priority shall be to develop the institute’s land in Central Business District at Alausa, Ikeja. The new structure will house offices for Management and Staff as well as renting out parts of the building, while the current Management House at Victoria Island will be rented out” she said. She further promised to place staffs on more trainings and exposures. She said “to continue getting the best out of the institute’s staffs, our administration will place premium on staff training by exposing our members to relevant local and international human capital development trainings as the need arises. “We intend to work with our corporate members by getting them more involved in the programmes and activities of the institute as of old.” The outgoing President, Professor Olukunle Iyanda, just before leaving the scene,  recounted some of his achievements to include the maintenance of the institute’s property, the introduction of the management hall of fame, and the return of some corporate members amongst others. Speaking of the new president, Mrs. Anabor, Prof Iyanda said “I have no iota of doubt that the institute is in very safe stellar hands”, wishing her well in her tenure. Earlier, former minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Iyom Josephine Anenih,  said that diversity is a strong tool that should be used to create a sense of belonging amongst Nigerians. She further noted that there is also the need to make policies and laws that accommodate the diversity Nigerians enjoy in all spheres of life. In her lecture “Managing diversity in a democracy”, Anenih defined diversity as “a range of human differences”, stressing that it is useful in the elimination of discrimination, promotion of fairness and it improves effectiveness and productivity, especially in a workplace. She said “there cannot be true democracy without the recognition and deliberate plat forming of our differences. There are boadly tow main arguments for diversity. The first is that populations within organizations should reflect the societal populations these employees are drawn from. Diversity here is a tool for the elimination of discrimination and promotion of fairness.” “A second argument for diversity in the workplace s that it has proven to improve effectiveness, performance and innovation. Diversity within the organization also allows the company more effectively solves problems or create products for s diverse marketplace” The NIM also inducted His Royal Highness,Late Jerome Oputa Udoji, Late Dr. Chris Abebe   and Dr. Michael Olawale Omolayole,into its Management Hall of Fame.