 The attraction of modernisation has not deprived Nigerian communities of attachment to their rich culture. One aspect of the culture that has survived assault by science, technology and ‘imported vulture’ disguised as modernity is the honour accorded traditional rulers in the various communities, however big or small. However, the conduct of some of the traditional rulers has called to question the honour accorded them. In pre- comolial times, the traditional rulers who were custodians of the traditions, enforcers of laws, rules and regulations, were considered above board. Therefore, diligent search was usually carried out to select the most suitable of candidates presented by the ruling houses. Things have since changed. While the society has made efforts to preserve the dignity accorded the rulers, the selection process has been perverted, with many of those installed falling short of expectations. In many of the villages and towns, modern law enforcement agents have apprehended monarchs involved in social vices. One current case is the district head of Fannami ward in Bade Local Government Area of Yobe State who has been indefinitely suspended for being allegedly involved in defilement of a six-year-old boy. If a prima facie case is established against him, he would have been guilty of rape, paedophilia and homosexuality –  all punishable under the Nigerian law. It is shameful that a traditional ruler could be involved in such despicable act. Even in the traditional societies, such rulers who fall short of moral codes were dethroned and consequently dealt with. All eyes are on the political, traditional and judicial authorities in the state, watching keenly how the case is being handled.  We commend Governor Mala Buni for the prompt action taken to pave way for unhindered police investigation and possible prosecution, but by no means should justice be subverted on account of pressure. A major feature of the justice system is the rule of law that is no respecter of persons. Justice should not just be said to have been done in this case, but demonstrably seen to have been done. In many other parts of the country where traditional rulers and local elites have been apprehended for anti-social practices and crimes such as banditry, insurgency, human sacrifice, kidnapping, cattle rustling and even armed robbery, we call on the law enforcement agents to demonstrate their loyalty to the state and people. A number of traditional rulers have been alleged to support banditry in Zamfara State. It’s not enough to allege, the onus of proof lies with the accusers and the people would be better assured that the law is being applied faithfully when such alleged high profile offenders are taken through the mill of justice. Unequivocally, we condemn the depravity that is seemingly defining the Nigerian traditional institution, especially the irresponsible sexual assault on innocent children as in the Yobe case. Governments should institute far-reaching reforms into the selection process. The chieftaincy laws in many states are already anachronistic and should be reviewed. This is one way of keeping out the rich but anti-social elements who have desecrated the age-long tools. The boy allegedly assaulted by the district head needs adequate social, psychological and medical attention. His dreams and the expectations of his parents should not be cut short by a randy privileged member of the community. This is another test of the commitment of the state to the well-being of citizens.