Lagos State Government on Sunday appealed to health care providers, including public and private health facilities operating in the state, to stop rejecting gunshot victims and other trauma patients for not providing police report or provide evidence of funds before commencing treatment. Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, in a statement yesterday while reacting to findings by the Ministry of Health that some health facilities in the state had formed the habit of rejecting or delaying care to trauma victims, resulting often in avoidable loss of lives. He noted that several times such patients were not in a position to discuss the incident or finance and were often brought in by good Samaritans. He urged hospitals, health centres and clinics to offer immediate comprehensive care to gunshot victims and other trauma patients without let or hindrance in line with the Federal Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act 2017. “These deaths would have been avoided if health care providers were conversant with the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act 2017, which stipulates that victims of gunshot and traumatic accidents should receive immediate treatment when presented to healthcare facilities.” He noted that health care providers, according to their professional oaths, should first save lives by offering immediate attention to any patient requiring urgent critical and lifesaving supportive care before any other considerations. “Such critical care should include where necessary all measures to stabilise the patient before onward referral to more equipped facilities. Simple procedures such as attempts to arrest bleeding or intravenous fluids could make all the difference to saving life.” The commissioner explained that the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act makes provisions for obligatory treatment and care for victims of gunshots, stressing that the law stipulates that a person with a gunshot wound shall be received for immediate and adequate treatment by any hospital in Nigeria. “With this Act, it has become legally wrong for healthcare providers to delay attending to victims of gunshots and any other trauma under any circumstances. It is in this wise that I want to make it clear that the Lagos State Government will not hesitate to explore this law and to apply suitable sanctions against facilities that contravene the principle and body of the act,” he said. 