The banks are denying visually impaired or blind customers opportunity to enjoy seamless services like their sighted counterparts. The blind have limited access to Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), internet banking and loans. Banks are also not investing in Interactive Voice Response (IVR) tools to aid blind customers’ transactions and reduce the risk of losing their funds to third parties. COLLINS NWEZE captures the agonies and pains faced by blind customers and inability of the banks to meet their expectations.  Olurotimi Olubodede, a Senior Lecturer in Mass Communication Department, Adekunle Ajasin University, Ondo State was born blind. Fortunately, the predicament has instead of being a hindrance to his aspirations in life, become a stepping stone for him. At 52 years old, Olubodede has seen almost everything life can offer. The good, bad and ugly. The ugly side of his life experience is the poor quality of service banks have been providing to visually impaired or blind customers for decades. Being in an advantaged position gives his educational status compared to other visually impaired persons with littler no education, he has decided to speak out for others. Olubodede spoke on the use of technology in providing banking services and how the blind are left behind. “Everyone is enjoying seamless banking services with the advent of technology, except the visually impaired customers.  We have tried to get the banks, including the big ones to invest in technology that protects our accounts and makes it easier for us to transact without the help of third parties to no avail,” he said. “Although I cannot see, I am aware that the banking industry has seen the emergence of digital services that are fast, secure and seamless. Banking has advanced beyond the ‘brick and mortar’ model to one that is digitally-driven with many benefits to customers. Banking is no longer where you go, but what you do.” Findings showed that the visually impaired customers of First Bank of Nigeria, Wema Bank, Access Bank, Ecobank Nigeria, Fidelity Bank, Unity Bank, Union Bank, Keystone Bank among others have continued to complain about the quality of services they receive from the banks. For Olubodede, banks have failed to ensure the services they provide align with the lifestyle of all categories of customers, especially the visually impaired, who also constitute a large part of the banking public. The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that 285 million people are visually impaired worldwide with 39 million blind and 246 with low vision. Also, about 90 per cent of the world’s visually impaired live in developing countries like Nigeria, 82 per cent of the blind and aged 50 and above. Olubodede acknowledged that banks are not only digitally transforming their operations to increase their share of digital sales and transactions, but they are also partnering with telcos or financial technology (Fintech) companies to deliver mobile financial services to their clients at a cost below that of the branch network. Unfortunately, these services are not extended to the blind, which are not only deprived of digital services but the conditions under which they are served, have continued to degenerate, putting their lives and funds at risk. He recounted his experiences in many of the top banks, which ordinarily should lead the pack in the provision of financial services to all and sundry. Olubodede said: “In FirstBank, visually impaired customers had access to online banking platforms before the launch of a new technology that disabled their access to key services in the bank. With the introduction of technology, blind customers were cut off from accessing internet banking services. Blind customers can no longer make online banking transfers without exposing their bank details to a third party that will help them to make the transaction. Such practices have denied us our right to privacy and protection of bank our details”. Findings showed that many banks have stopped Interactive Voice Response (IVR) otherwise known as telephone banking for the blind in order to save cost. Many of the banks also deny blind customers the opportunity to have access to ATM cards. Aside from technology deprivation, many banks prevent them from entering their banking halls with guide-cane or white-cane meant for them to navigate their ways. The banks are also denying visually impaired customers access to loans, even when they have collaterals.  “These complaints are not fallacious. Series of appeals have been made to the banks to make their services accessible to the visually impaired people. Many of them did not listen. I, therefore, implore the CBN to sure that all commercial banks in Nigeria conform to the international standard by making all their services accessible to visually impaired customers. All bank staff should be properly trained on how to deal with their visually impaired customers,” he said.  Other blind customers of banks also shared their experiences. Abiodun Erugbaju, a blind customer with Wema Bank spoke on a personal experience he had during one of his visits to the bank. “How would you feel when you discover that there are no voice guidance and tactile keyboards on the ATMs your bank expects you to use. Or there is no screen reading software in terms of online banking that enables the computer to speak everything that appears on the screen. Or hearing a customer service officer ask a colleague, who will be operating the bank account for him? ‘These, he said, were some of his experiences in banks, almost daily. He went further: “Sadly though, the customer service officer was not even asking me directly, she was asking a colleague. When I heard it, I felt bad and quickly told her that the question was ridiculous. If you want to ask this type of question, you should ask me. Not a third party that does not know about me. She is not my brother or someone that knows me. Asking a stranger who will be operating my account for me is derogatory. Which means I can’t do that even as a Masters Degree holder? I brought out four different ATM cards and told the customer service officer that the card she has just given me will make it the fifth that I have at the moment. Then, I told her that she had just insulted me by that question,” Erugbaju narrated. Erugbaju said although the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele has consistently advised banks and financial institutions to provide ATMs that are accessible to and independently useable by individuals who are blind, the banks do not heed to the directive. “So, for me, those are the major problems. For instance, I cannot use any ATM here because they are not audio-enabled. People with physical challenges like those on a wheelchair are not always able to access most ATMs because of the way they were built. They have to climb staircases to make use of them.” By providing screen readers, banks would be making it very easy for them to navigate and transact businesses online without necessarily getting assistance from others. Also speaking, a blind civil servant based in Lagos, Mrs. Eunice Okon, said there are so many things she wanted the financial sector to improve on. She said she cannot use the ATMs because of difficulties in accessing the keys adding that banks should put some signs on the ATM that identify the numbers on the keypad and well as the notes. “I was at Wema Bank the other time, and I had to call the security man to assist me with my account number. And you know the account number is supposed to be private but I have to disclose it just to get the transaction done. I also do the same with my ATM Personal Identification Number (PIN), which is not supposed to be. Even the cheque books can be done in a way that it becomes easier for us to use. We also need to identify the notes. There are cases that the bus conductor will tell you that the note is N100 when actually it is N200 or even N500 and they will take the balance,” she disclosed. Okon said although she has not been a victim of ATM fraud, many of her friends have been defrauded by the very people they trusted with their ATM cards and PINs. Lagos State Chairman of Joint National Association of Persons With Disabilities, (JNAPWD), Adebukola Adebayo who is also blind, supported Erugbayi’s argument saying the banks need to provide software tools that would enable them to use internet banking facilities. He said the ATMs are not well equipped for the blind. He said that the banking halls not accessible, with many of them with inadequately measured ramps, and a greater number without any. “The ATMs are not equipped to give me my account balances, buy air airtime, pay utility bills among other services,” he said. For him, such inadequacies have discouraged him from using the banks adding that banknotes are not recognisable to the blind. “Look at the polymer notes we are using now. I don’t know how to differentiate between N5, N10, N20 and N50. They all have the same textures and features as far as I am concerned. They are all the same. If the CBN wants to create the needed features, it can do it. But the bitter truth is that they do not even think that some people are disabled. We are the ones affected, but some of them may be disabled one day. Challenges can visit anybody just like rain can fall at any time without announcements,” he said. He said the design of the naira notes do not allow the blind to differentiate one note from another. On the loans, he said: “We have reports that the blind have difficulty accessing loans. Even when the CBN promised us that it finds ways to ensure we have access to the N2 billion Micro Small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) fund, nothing positive has come from that promise. We need disability sensitive loans because the cost of operation for a blind customer in any business is always higher than his sighted counterpart, so we are not expected to borrow at the same rate,” he said. Continuing, he said two per cent of the procurement contract in Kenya is giving to People with Disability, especially the blind, and that plan can also be adopted in Nigeria. Adebayo who banks with Zenith and Access banks said he has not noticed any improvements on the attention and services they give to him or some of his friends that are blind. “These banks forgot that even some of their directors can have accidents, even if it is domestic accidents and face similar problems we are facing today,” he said. On denial of loans to the blind, Executive Director, African Union for the Blind, a Ugandan working in Lagos and Nairobi, Kenya, Julius Kamya also recounted his experience with Barclays Bank, Uganda when his request for a $7,000 salary advance loan was declined. Speaking during a conference held in Ikeja, Lagos, he narrated the action he took when the bank denied him loan: “I applied for a loan and they said your organisation did not qualify when we did the qualification sampling. Then I said no problem, I am not qualified, but one of my staff who is not disabled applied for the loan and got it. I am the chief executive officer of the organisation where she works, how come I was not qualified? What is the problem so that I rectify it and not make other staff lose when they apply? “They said I was just not qualified. Then I said, can you put what you are telling me in writing? The bank said no. Then, I contacted my lawyer who wrote them. They sensed there was big trouble when I kept writing them, up to three times. They gave me the loan. I was contemplating dragging them to court before they responded. They just sensed I was on the move,” he said. Kamya, who spoke while attending a conference in Lagos, said there was a need for continuous advocacy for persons with a disability, especially the blind. He said challenges faced by the blind differ from bank to bank, but the issues have to do with discrimination, poor customer services and outright denial of banking services. “Some banks don’t think that I am eligible to have a bank account. Some banks do not accept thumbprints thereby excluding the blind that may not be able to sign with a pen. Sometimes, it may have to do with ignorance by the staff of the banking institution. Some banks even think that as a visually impaired person, one is not entitled to a loan. There are also issues around banknotes not being accessible to blind users who will not be able to differentiate one currency from another. I have seen these practices in Lagos, Kenya and Uganda,” he said. Findings showed that these things are happening because the majority of banks’ staff lack the needed awareness and competence to attend to people with disability. In developed countries, internet and telephone banking services are developed to enable customers who are blind to use them just as easily as anyone else adding that in Nigeria, the barricades thrown up against them by the banks are increasing by the day.  CBN, banks, other stakeholders speak CBN Director, Consumer Protection Department, Salam Alada said that one of the CBN’s mandates is to promote a sound financial system in Nigeria adding that the regulator is placing a high priority on restoring consumer confidence. Speaking at a meeting with financial journalists in Adamawa, he said that while the social importance of financial services has not diminished, the character of providers has changed from state-owned to private entities formed for profit-making and responsible only to their shareholders whose primary interest is profit maximisation. The CBN also said it was concerned about challenges faced by the blind, which prompted a directive to banks to build wheelchair-friendly branches and also have blind persons within their workforce. However, findings showed CBN is yet to commence monitoring the level of compliance in most banks. The CBN also said it was aware that banks have been asked to build more accessible branches that would allow people with disabilities to enter the banking hall easily. FirstBank’s Group Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications, Mrs. Folake Ani-Mumuney, said the bank has a deliberate policy that takes care of its blind customers. Deepening its retail dominance with the launch of innovative products and services, tailored to suit the changing times and ever-growing customer base. She said the bank has started building wheelchair-friendly branches and will continue to take steps to get more people, including the blind, into the financial system. According to her, the lender has already installed biometric ATM in many of its branches, adding that with that feat, what is needed to open an account is simply the customer’s fingerprint. She said: “We have deliberate policies for the partially sighted and the blind on employment and we even have some of them as our staff. We are working on getting bank statements on braille and ensure data protection for them. There is a team working on that”. A source in Ecobank Nigeria who asked not to be named because he was not authorised to speak on the matter said the bank’s ATMs have a voice prompt that enables visually impaired customers to carry out their transactions seamlessly. “Our online plan in 2020 and beyond is to accommodate people with disabilities and ensure they have the best of services. All the Ecobank ATMs nationwide will have voice prompt,” the source said. President of the Bank Customers Association of Nigeria, Uju Ogubunka, said banks are not doing enough to ensure that people with disabilities are included in the financial system. He said banks should make messages about their products and services available to the blind in a manner they can understand them. He called on stakeholders to work towards ensuring the effective inclusion of people with disabilities in empowerment programmes that would have positive behavioural change on their relationship with their banks. Ogubunka said the exclusion of Persons With Disabilities (PWDs) from the design, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of government policies on key issues that affect their lives are highly disturbing. He said there is also need to include PWDs in national and state strategic plans and other relevant policy documents on banking operations, telecom and reproductive health, which he said, constitute major concern to stakeholders. He said that Nigeria banks can develop a homegrown solution to provide quality services to their visually impaired customers. According to him, banks can also borrow ideas from advanced countries on how they are meeting the banking needs of their blind customers.   Way forward by stakeholders Erugbaju said there is also need for the CBN to institutionalise policy in collaboration with people with disability to share ideas on how these things can be fixed. “There has to be some kind of needs assessment on the part of the CBN. The regulator needs to conduct some needs assessment on persons with disability as it concerns banking and this forms whatever policies they will make afterwards. We appreciate some of their initiatives which are quite thoughtful, proactive and innovative but then, there is a need for a stakeholders’ dialogue on these issues,” Erugbaju said. He explained that that sitting back and making policies without talking to those directly affected by it, will not produce the desired result. Michael Okafor, a member of the Nigeria Association of the Blind (NAB), said a lot of advocacy needs to be done on the financial system. She said her experiences with her banks were not encouraging. “For instance, if I don’t fill my payslip before I walk into the bank, getting someone to do it for me is going to be a challenge. Another problem is access to the bank. Some of us move with the guide canes which cannot pass the electric doors installed at the entrance of the banking halls,” she said. Continuing, Okafor said sometimes, he had to drop his cane behind, or talk to the security personnel to disable the entrance door before she can go in with the cane. She regretted that many of the banks do not have alternative doors for persons with disability to go into the banking halls without inconveniencing others. “I also think there should be at least a customer care person that should be sorely responsible for attending to persons with disability including illiterate persons. I always need someone to help me type my Personal Identification Number when using ATMs. We need ATMs that can talk so that the needed confidentiality will be available for the blind,” she said. Speaking further, he advised banks to train their staff to render disability-friendly services, especially for the blind. “If you give me all my bank statements in prints, I have to get someone to read it to me. But if they have the necessary facilities in place to make sure that information is put in an accessible format, life will be made a little easier for us,” he said. Okafor said on many occasions, she had to return to the bank to make corrections because the security personnel that helped her filled the teller got it wrong adding that such occurrences could be eliminated with an improved commitment by the banks. According to Kamya, governments at all levels need to be consulting with disabled persons when making policies that affect their lives and finances. “We have a slogan that says ‘Nothing for Us Without Us’ meaning that we are the better advocates for ourselves. So, we need to be part of whatever policies that are designed for us. There is also a need for more sensitisation in the banking sector so that their staff look at us as human beings,” he advised. Other stakeholders insist that inclusivity and accessibility needs of visually impaired persons not just to banking services but also to information, safe use of public infrastructure, public transport system, access to qualitative and functional inclusive education, attainment of fully independent living, inclusion into political and socio-economic activities among others are key in building equitable and sustainable society.