The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria created the Manufacturers CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI) to gauge the pulse of the economy quarterly. The MCCI for the third quarter of 2019 was 51.7 points. This represented a marginal increase of 0.8 index point over 50.9 index point recorded in the second quarter. Although the increase depicted an uptick in manufacturing sector’s performance, it was far below projections and expectations of MAN and the Organised Private Sector (OPS). Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA looks at issues and challenges that shaped the real sector’s performance in 2019.  It was a fair and balanced assessment of the performance of the economy, particularly the real sector in the out-going year. So, by the time the newly-inaugurated President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Mrs. Toki Mabogunje, was done reeling out some of the high and low points of the economy in 2019, it was clear on what policy direction the Federal Government should take if it must put the economy on the right track. For instance, by Mabogunje’s admission, there were more intervention funds in 2019 than they had ever been for people to tap into to grow their businesses. She gave thumbs up to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which, according to her, took a bigger role in ensuring that the intervention funds were made available. She, however, noted that there were issues around access to the intervention funds. “It’s not like the funds were not available, but there were issues both on the side of the borrower and on the lender. “The lender complained that the borrowers were not bankable, and were not meeting the criteria banks asked for in order to access the funds,” she told The Nation, during the weekend. She also said there were issues around financial literacy, as businesses themselves did not understand what was required for them to access the funds, adding that on the lenders side, there was also the argument that may be some of the requirements they were asking for were a bit too much. Mrs. Mabogunje said it was in a bid to simplify and address such issues that the CBN came up with the Moveable Collateral Registry, where a small business can use a moveable collateral to access the funds. “You don’t have to have land and property; you can use your car, freezer; women can use their jewelry; any kind of moveable asset you have can now be used as collateral,” she said, adding that at the micro level, there was no need for collateral; a business only needed to provide two guarantors. She, however, said the argument on both sides was being discussed and debated; that the LCCI would advocate for the simplification of the process so that there would be better access to the funds. Mrs. Mabogunje also listed the improvement in ease of doing business as another positive development, noting, however, that the LCCI would continue to push for improvements in the ease of doing business initiatives which the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) was dealing with and had made significant gains. The PEBEC is the current administration’s flagship initiative to reform the business environment, attract investment and diversify the economy. Although it was inaugurated in July 2016, some of its reforms manifested in 2019. Mabogunje said, for instance, that the Council’s reforms as well as the signing of the Executive Order on ease of doing business helped with the issues around immigration and the ports, thereby improving the ease of doing business in the country. More importantly, she pointed out that the PEBEC, during the year under review, moved from just dealing at the national level to dealing at the sub-national level. “They are now engaging with states; they are trying to encourage State Governments to try and step up and improve their various business environments so that there can be a better overall outcome for all of us. “We want those improvements to continue; we want to push for more of those improvements around the issues which the PEBEC, was dealing with,” she said. That is not all. There was also an improvement in tax administration, with tax authorities and Nigerians appreciating the use of technology more. “People were asked to do voluntary assessment of their taxes, as government tried to get more money into the kitty so that these monies can be used for development,” Mrs. Mabogunje said. She also pointed out that despite the growing realization in 2019 that the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) were actually the foundation for economic growth and development, the burden of taxation was quite heavy on them and indeed, other real sector operators. She, therefore, said the LCCI, under her watch, will continue to push for enabling policies and reforms that will ensure the survival and growth of SMEs in the country. According to her, factors that are enabling for SMEs to grow such as infrastructure, particularly power, are still to be properly addressed. “Without power and other infrastructure, industries cannot grow; it will be difficult getting products out of the country as exports or importing goods into the country,” the LCCI boss said. Indeed, inadequate electricity supply was top on the list of challenges that confronted the Organised Private Sector (OPS), especially manufacturers. Based on the intensity, the Manufacturers CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI) ranked inadequate electricity supply and high cost of self-generated energy first and multiple taxation and overregulation as second. To gauge the pulse of the economy on quarterly basis, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) created the MCCI. The MCCI deploys a set of diffusion factors including Current Business Condition and Business Condition for the next three months to measure a quarterly perception and confidence of manufacturers in the economy. Other diffusion factors are Current Employment Condition, Rate of Employment, Employment Condition for the next three months and Production Level for the next three months. For instance, the indexes of Current Business Condition in the third quarter dropped to 41.5 points, from the 43 points recorded in the second quarter; Current Employment Condition, which stood at 35 points in the second quarter of the year, also improved to 42.3 points in the third quarter, while production expectation in the next three months increased marginally from 64 points recorded in the second quarter, to 66.4 points in the third quarter of the year. However, indexes of ‘Business Condition for the next three month dropped from 59 points recorded in the second quarter to 55.8 points in the third quarter of the year. Employment Condition for the next ‘3’ months’ also weakened marginally from 53 points of the second quarter to 52.5 points recorded in the third quarter of the year. The meager improvement in Production expectation and the Current Employment Condition expressed the degree of hope and intensity of the level of confidence of CEOs of manufacturing concerns that going forward, government would do the needful to make manufacturing operating environment friendlier before year end. While poor electricity supply was top of the list of manufacturers’ woes, the MCCI also identified high interest rate/difficult condition in accessing loans /high cost of funds, poor accessibility to ports/gridlock at the national ports/high Demurrages, bad roads/poor rail transport systems as third and fourth major challenges, respectively. Other issues that left sour taste in the mouths of manufacturers in 2019 included difficulty in sourcing forex/multiple forex widows/no special treatment of manufacturers in sourcing forex; low patronage/poor patronage from the government/low turnover. Manufacturers also lamented the challenge of counterfeiting/influx of sub-standard products/too many uncertified products in the market; high inflation/high cost of raw-materials; high cost of spare parts; insecurity across the country; closure of borders, among others.  Indeed, as Mabogunje observed, border closures as well as the congestion of the ports were the biggest low points in the economy in the out-going year. She said the closure of the border by the Federal Government was high on LCCI’s agenda especially as Nigeria prepares for the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement from July 2020. Describing the AfCFTA as “A big opportunity for Nigeria,” she said: “The LCCI believes that AfCFTA is a great opportunity, but we can’t wait until we are ready. When will we be ready? Let’s start with it, and deal with our issues as they come along. “So, we are totally in support of the AFCFTA. We think we can’t wait until we are totally ready, that all hands should be on deck to make sure we address issues as they come along and try as much as possible to scale our hurdles as fast as possible so that we really can be competitive in the market.” According to the manufacturers, the afore-mentioned challenges resonated with the ranking obtained in the two previous editions of MCCI thus, underscoring the need for government to urgently address these challenges to enhance the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector and return the sector to the path of sustainable growth. “The manufacturing sector has been identified as the catalyst of industrialisation and engine of growth of any economy. The sector in Nigeria faced myriads of challenges, particularly poor economic infrastructure and regulatory challenges. “These issues account for the almost stationary performance state of the sector in recent times and underscore the need to deliberately chat a course of action to change the sector’s narrative,” MAN said, in its MCCI, which was made available to The Nation. Indeed, the report put the aggregate MCCI for the third quarter of 2019 at 51.7 points. This represented a marginal increase of 0.8 index point over 50.9 index point recorded in the second quarter of the year. The slight increase depicted an uptick in manufacturing sector’s performance. It also showed that manufacturers’ confidence in the economy improved in the third quarter. However, the slight improvement in performance was attributed to the doggedness of manufacturers, as the operating environment remained very challenging. The performance was also far below the projections and expectations of manufacturers and majority of the member-companies operating in the sector. MAN, through the report, therefore, urged the government to urgently address the challenges identified and give priority attentions to the general recommendations in the report. Some of the recommendations put forward by MAN to restore the sector to the path of meaningful growth include urgent resolution of the Nigeria-Benin border dispute; deliberate channeling of economic infrastructure to strategic economic hubs across the country; resolution of the issue of re-classification of manufacturers as strategic users of gas. Man also advised government to, among others, continue to improve in its monetary policy management by focusing on reducing inflation rate; improving the long-term loan portfolios and cost of credit for the industrial sector. It also urged the government to ensure that only approved taxes/fees & levies are collected by its agencies.