Omolara Akintoye HIV and AIDS has emerged as the single most formidable challenge to public health, human rights, and development in the new millennium. School children are not left out as they are also exposed to the risk of HIV. Studies have reported that young people form a significant segment of those attending sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinics and those infected by HIV. In commemoration of this year’s World AIDS Day, which is tagged “Communities make the Difference”, NNPC-NAPIMS, Total Upstream Nigeria Limited and partners organised an HIV and AIDS awareness campaign programme for five secondary schools in Education District 4, Lagos State, at Ajigbeda Senior Girls Secondary School, Surulere, Lagos. In attendance were students from Gbaja Girls Senior Secondary School, Ideal Girls Senior School Ansar-U-Deen Secondary School, Government Senior College and the host, Ajigbeda Girls Senior Secondary School. The campaign, according to the Managing Director, Total upstream Nig. Ltd. Mr. Mike Sangster, was organised in line with the theme for this year. “We believe that students of your age need to be aware of the disease because with knowledge comes the ability to take informed decisions to protect yourselves, your families and your communities against HIV,” he said. According to him, youths are the most vulnerable to HIV infection, because of ignorance and by engaging in risky behaviours such as drug abuse, cult activities, blood rituals and sexual exposures whether by consent or rape. The campaign, he pointed out, has been on since 2014 and it has been taken to 14 schools in the federation, the last being Oshodi Comprehensive High school, Oshodi, recently. “As we all know, HIV and AIDS has become a major global health crisis in the past three decades. The disease has also become a real development challenge, especially for developing nations where young people, who are the most productive segment of the population, remain at risk. There is a link between the high prevalence of HIV and the level of ignorance among the public. At Total, we believe that raising public awareness on this infection is a sure way to combat it,” said Sangster, who was represented by the General Manager, C.S.R Total Upstream Nig. Ltd. Mr. Ajukwura Wokomah The school and education system in the words of the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Business Coalition Against AIDS (NIBUCAA), Gbenga Alabi, play a major role in shaping the attitudes, opinions and behaviour of young people who are important group and potential resource in the prevention of HIV and achieving 90-90-90 target. “According to studies, social-based interventions have concluded that school-based HIV prevention can reduce the prevention of sexual risk behaviour amongst this younger generation that is most affected and infected. This is the fourth edition of the school awareness project and we have been able to reach out to various schools in three districts out of the six districts in Lagos State as we still look forward to spreading this awareness programme and empower young students with the necessary knowledge and life skill required of them to achieve their life goals,” said Alabi. “Awareness is key in curbing the virus, Public Private Partnership is key in the fight against HIV and AIDS, and Lagos State government is doing all it could to curb the spread,” said the Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA), Dr. Mrs. Monsurat Adeleke, who was represented by Dr. Omolola Sule. At the end of the programme, students were empowered with assertive and life building skills. Anti-AIDS clubs were established in the beneficiary schools for reasonable effective coverage, effective participation and sustainability.