By Damola Kola-Dare  Former Registrar, University of Ibadan, Mr Olujimi Olukoya has urged members of the registry staff of Federal College of Education, Technical, Akoka, Lagos, to imbibe the spirit of excellence and avoid being complacent to make headway in their careers. He delivered a lecture entitled: “Becoming your best ever: A pursuit of excellence”, last week during the Registry Staff Association’s third Public Lecture and Annual General Meeting (AGM). Olukoya, who is a visiting Registrar to the National Universities Commission (NUC), Abuja, charged them to work relentlessly to realise their potential. “To excel in life, we should know that excellence does not consist in doing something once. It is not even in doing sporadic occasional engagement but what we repeatedly do. It is a formed habit,” he noted. Quoting John Mason’s ‘An Enemy called Average’ he stressed the need for them to use their talents at optimal level. He said: “We have been wired by God with great potential, and if only we would cooperate with Him, unlearn bad habits that choke excellence in us, and develop healthy habits of excellence, we would break free from the stronghold of failure and mediocrity to becoming our best ever.”  He advised them to take positive steps towards being goal-oriented as administrators while charging them to be proactive in their various endeavours. “As administrators, you have to initiate, create, be focused and expect the desired results. You can be like the eagle, which symbolises courage, determination, bravery and grace,”he urged. Earlier in his speech, Provost of the institution, Dr Wahab Azeez, noted that for any institution to grow rapidly its Registry must perform excellently; hence he called for the support of members of staff to move the institution to greater heights. He said: “For any institution to develop faster, the Registry of such must be at its best. Therefore, I am calling for your  support to bring new ideas into the system and take the institution to greater heights.” Commenting on the essence of the lecture, the Registrar, Mr Rasheed Dada, noted that it was aimed at promoting professionalism and keeping up with the latest trends in administration.