 TO combat HIV/AIDS more effectively and meet 2030 target to eradicate the pandemic, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has called for stronger collaboration among all stakeholders. This, he stressed, would to eradicate the HIV pandemic in a country with unenviable record of second largest HIV prevalence in the world. He made the call while unveiling the South-West Zonal Office of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) in Ikeja, stressing that there is an urgent need for stakeholders to review strategies and deepen partnerships in the area of advocacy and expanding access to care, treatment and support for those living with the virus. “Let us move forward in a bold new spirit of partnership to overcome the cycle of HIV transmission and deliver health and wellbeing for all our citizens,” he stated. The Governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, explained that the recently released report of national and sub-national incidence rates, which indicate a reduction in prevalence of the disease, is a testament to the efforts of all stakeholders in involved in the war against the pandemic. He asked that complacency should not be allowed to set in, as there is still a long journey ahead in order to win the battle and free the country of the virus. “The progress made so far in ending this epidemic would not have been possible without dynamic advocacy, solidarity and a spirit of shared responsibility, which must be maintained,” Sanwo-Olu said. He added that the decision to locate the South-west office of NACA in Lagos, must have been in recognition of the commitment and dedication the state government in eradicating the virus through the activities of the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA). In his address, Dr. Gambo Aliyu, Director General of NACA, said the new zonal office will oversee the coordination of NACA’s activities in the South-west and provide effective oversight of the agency’s activities in cluster of states within the zone for appropriate report to the head office in Abuja. While noting that Nigeria has done remarkably well in stemming the tide of HIV in the last 15 years, resulting in reduction of the prevalence of the disease, Gambo stated that NACA’s focus is to ensure that HIV is 90 per cent under control.