Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti has confirmed that Alex Iwobi will miss  among other matches the high profile  January 5 FA Cup clash against Liverpool. The Nigerian midfielder had already been ruled out of  today’s Boxing Day Premier League game against Burnley  as well as the EPL games against Newcastle United (December 28) and Manchester City (January 1). The  23-year-old Super Eagles star suffered a hamstring injury in the first half of the goalless draw against Arsenal at the weekend. Speaking to Everton TV, Ancelotti said: “Alex Iwobi is not going to play in the next games. He is going to rest for two or three weeks, then start [training] with the team.” A deadline-day signing from Arsenal, Iwobi has been named in twenty-one MatchDay squads in all competitions since the start of the 2019-2020season-starting on 15 occasions- and has scored a goal for ‘The Toffees’ in his first season. Everton sit 15th on the Premier League table with 19 points from 18 matches and are only four points above the drop zone. Meanwhile, Ancelotti says managing Everton at Goodison Park on Boxing Day will be “like the first day of school” – and the Club’s new manager is aiming for a performance against Burnley bubbling with energy and speed. Italian Ancelotti has encountered a “focussed and positive” squad in his opening two training sessions at USM Finch Farm. He watched the Blues draw with Arsenal on Saturday from Goodison’s Main Stand and went home convinced the intensity of Evertonians’ support is a substantial factor in his side’s favour. Ancelotti boasts an enviable resume and is one of only three men to win the Champions League three times as a manager. But he made no attempt to disguise his joy over the prospect of stepping out of the Goodison tunnel to begin his reign in earnest as the Club’s 18th boss on Thursday. “It is really exciting, like the first day of school,” Ancelotti told evertontv. It is a new experience for me.” “I have received a lot of support in these past days from the Club, from the supporters I met at the hotel and in the city. But I am really focussed on the game and would like for the team to play fantastic football.”