Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been fighting the infrastructure battle in the last 200 days. Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso told reporters that the administration will sustain the tempo of perf ormance. EMMANUEL  OLADESU reports.  Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso has reeled out Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s achievements, saying that he has not failed Lagosians. He said the administration has been fulfilling its campaign promises, despite the daunting challenges. The commisioner, who noted the initial complaints about the state of infrastructure, said government needed to plan well and wait till after the raining season to commence works on the roads. Omotoso told reporters in his office that, in the areas of transportation and management, health and environment, education and technology, making Lagod a 21st Century economy, and security and governance, the administration has lived up to expectation. The press briefing was part of the activities making the 200 days of the Sanwo-Olu administration. The commissioner was accompanied by the Permanent Secretary,  Ministry of Information and Strategy,  Mrs. Omobolanle Ogunmola, Chief Press Secretary to the governor Gboyega Akosile, General Manager, Lagos State Printing Corporation, Kola Grillo, GM Lagos Radio Ayo Sotonwa, GM, Lagos Television Siju Alabi, GM Traffic Radio Tayo, Director of Social Media Deji Balogun, and Alausa Alert Editor Tayo Ogunbiyi and Olusina Thorpe. He said the administration has fought the infrastructure battle with vigour and determination, stressing that, apart from the 139 road resurfacing projects, many roads that have not seen asphat before will be constructed. Omotoso said government has taken a bold step by proposing the construction of the Fourth Mainland Bridge to ensure better ease of movement in the metropolis. He said government has also shifted attention to the development of water transportation and inner-city rail to complement the new and refocused road transportation system. Exuding confidence about the capacity of government to deliver on its programmes, Omotoso said: “The THEMES agenda of the government will be achieved. The speed of projects implementation has now increased, especially since the first 100 days. The intensity is going according to the game plan, which is to apply the right treatment at the right time to achieve the desired level of service.” Noting that Lagosians complained about the bad state of the roads, the commissioner said: “Eight multi-national construction firms were mobilised to carry out massive repair on critical highways in what we christened Operation 116.” He said the rehabilitation was followed by extensive palliative and maintenance works, especially by the Public Works Corporation, which has rehabilitated hundreds of roads and cleared several drainage channels in many parts of the state. He added: “This was taken further with the flag-off of the reconstruction and upgrading of strategic roads in Ikorodu. The project comprises 6.05 kilometres Phase One road from Itamaga to Ewu Elepe town; 7.8 kilometres Owutu-Agric-Ishawo road Phase One and Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota road. “Interestingly, the Victoria Island, Lekki Traffic Circulation project on Oniru axis was also flagged-off the same day. The project, being undertaken by Lagos State Government and Access Bank under a Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership arrangement, would ease traffic considerably around Victoria Island, Oniru and Lekki axis.” The commissioner said the administration is bringing about a renaissance in the state’s public health sector. He added: “Under Pillar H, which stands for Health and Sanitation, the 149-bed Maternal and Childcare Centre, MCC, in Alimosho General Hospital was commissioned. “The specialist centre, facilitated through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, is evidence of the working partnership between the Federal and the State Governments. “The facility is equipped with ultra-modern equipment that aid prompt delivery of maternal and child care services. Presently, the administration is working hard towards the completion of more MCCs. In fact, the Badagry and Epe MCCs are nearing completion.” The Commissioner said through the initiative, over 21, 000 people were screened at seven centres over a period of six days, adding that 1417 free surgeries, including eye surgery for children and adults, were conducted. Omotoso said Sanwo-Olu and other top officials have also lent their voices to the battle against the scourge of rape, child abuse and gender based violence in a ‘Walk to Commit and Act’. Omotoso explained that education is being tackled from its root through a special focus on primary schools. He said government has placed emphasis on training of teachers, using technology, and supply of more educational infrastructure to foster a conducive learning environment. He stressed: ”The rehabilitation of public schools has begun, with the inauguration of a Special Committee. No fewer than 5000 primary school teachers will be trained to complete the three-pronged education strategy of fixing the infrastructure, fixing the curriculum and fixing the manpower through recruitment, training and development of teachers. “Giving credence to its policy to promote a smart city with technology, the administration organised The Art of Technology Lagos where the governor announced a N250m grant for  tech start-ups to encourage our young ones with fantastic ideas. “The Ministry of Education on December 10 started a week-long programme to review the Senior Secondary School Unified Schemes of Work for better performances in schools. “This government gave a N350 million bailout for personnel cost and increase the subvention of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education from N200 million to N250 mllion.” On security, Omotoso said the security situation in Lagos has improved tremendously, adding that, since the administration took off, armed robbery has drasticaly reduced. He noted that the administration has kept  its promise for continuity by holding this year’s edition of the annual Town Hall Meeting on Security. Omotoso added: “In continuation of the administration of justice reform, the Government presented fifty vehicles to Magistrates. The gesture will not only motivate the Magistrates to perform better, it underscores their roles in facilitating efficient and effective justice delivery for every Lagosian. Enforcing discipline is an exercise that cuts across the pillars. In the last one hundred days, the administration has mounted extensive advocacy against acts of indiscipline, such as breaking of traffic and environmental Laws. This has since been followed with enforcement activities spearheaded by the Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental and Special Offences. The Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers, popularly known as ‘OmoOnile Taskforce,’ with a mandate to rid the State of land grabbers, has continued to receive petitions. It is prosecuting several criminal cases against suspected land grabbers in courts. There are 35 land grabbing cases in court. Recent Statistics shows that there is an appreciable increase in the number of citizens who patronise the Taskforce for resolution of land grabbing cases. This is due in part to the intensity of publicity and awareness campaign as well as testimonies of people who have had their cases resolved through the Taskforce. The administration has ensured security of life and property. In recognition of hardwork and commitment to duty, the administration honoured Iyabo Elusakin of Oriwu Senior Model College for emerging the overall best teacher in Nigeria. She was rewarded with a three-bedroom apartment and an award of excellence. The Divisional Police Officer of Ogudu Police Station, Celestine Kalu, was also honoured for saving the life of a robbery victim. In celebration of the achievements and legacy of Brigadier-General Mobolaji Johnson, the first military governor of the State. A Day of Honour, was organised in his memory. The Onikan Stadium, the venue, was renamed the Mobolaji Johnson Stadium. In the last months, the administration has focused speedy and time effective justice delivery equally amongst all. This is in recognition of the fact that this can only be achieved mostly through institutional and policy strategies. Omotoso said the last 100 days were tough, but exciting,  for the government. In the face of the challenges, Mr Governor demonstrated exceptional leadership qualities. He aaded: “Today, the story is different and the song is fast changing. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr Obafemi Hamzat are leading a revolution of ideas steeped in profound assertions. With confidence, the leaders are holding on to their sincere promise, believing that with the support of every Lagosian, the journey to A Greater Lagos is assured. “Our agencies have been alive to their duties. LASEPA has shown that noise pollution will not be tolerated. Traffic law enforcement has been stepped up. Unfit hospitals are being shut down. Criminals are being reined in. Within the period under review, LAWMA acquired 10  boats to boost its marine waste operations. Following the launch of the Lagos Blue Box initiative on the 5th September 2019, five Community Recycling Centres were activated in the following five Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs), with recyclers strategically positioned to help drive the process: Since the inception of the initiative about 340,050 bags have been distributed to various households to encourage sorting of waste. Many of these bags are reused until they are mutilated before they are replaced; a signal that waste minimisation and reuse culture is readily taking root. In line with the national campaign for return to agriculture, the administration boosted the fortune of farmers through the Agricultural Value Chains Empowerment Programme. Hundreds of farmers were empowered with inputs to kick start or improve their businesses. Such an initiative will increase the volume of economic activities and boost the State’s quest for food security. On retirement pensions, Omotoso said: “The disbursement of N1.181 billion to the Retirement Savings Account of two hundred and seventy nine retirees of the Civil Service confirms the priority accorded the well-being of the senior citisens. The injection of the huge sum will also activate investments, leading to a greater expansion in the State’s economy. In preparation for the 2020 fiscal year, a 1.168 trillion naira Budget estimate has been presented to the Lagos State House of Assembly. Out of the total proposal christened “Awakening the Greater Lagos”, 723.75 billion naira, representing sixty two per cent, is for capital expenditure while 444.81 billion naira or 38 per cent is for recurrent expenditure. The high capital expenditure estimate is to accelerate growth  through aggressive investments in critical areas, such as physical infrastructure, environment, human capital and security. I boldly state, here, that the THEMES Agenda of the Government will be achieved. My confidence, to use an example of what majority are most familiar with, such as  soccer, is hinged on the intensity the game has now assumed. The speed of projects implementation has now increased, especially since the first 100 days. The intensity is going according to the game plan, which is to apply the right treatment at the right time to achieve the desired level of service. This administration’s game plan or pre-match briefing was designed at the retreat held immediately the members of the Executive Council were inaugurated. The retreat tremendously impacted on the implementation of key items in the governor’s development agenda (T.H.E.M.E.S) in the ministries, departments, and agencies of government. In the last 100 days, several programmes and projects aimed at promoting the welfare and well-being of the people have been executed by the administration. TRANSPORTATION AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT Under the First Pillar; Transportation and Traffic Management, various steps were taken to aggressively address the challenge of bad roads and ease movement across the State. Eight Multi-national construction firms were mobilised to carry out massive repair on critical highways in what we christened Operation 116. This was followed by extensive palliative and maintenance works, especially by the Public Works Corporation, which has rehabilitated hundreds of roads and cleared several drainage channels in various parts of the State. This was taken further with the flag-off of the reconstruction and upgrading of strategic roads in Ikorodu. The project comprises 6.05 kilometres Phase One road from Itamaga to Ewu Elepe town; 7.8 kilometres Owutu-Agric-Ishawo road Phase One and Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota road. Interestingly, the Victoria Island, Lekki Traffic Circulation project on Oniru axis was also flagged-off the same day. The project, being undertaken by Lagos State Government and Access Bank under a Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership arrangement, would ease traffic considerably around Victoria Island, Oniru and Lekki axis. Interestingly, going through various parts of the state, one will see Public Works Corporation, High-tech, Chinese Construction Company (CCECC), Metropolitan Construction Company, Arab Contractors, Julius Berger, and other contractors working on our  roads. This is not just happening without a proper grounding. It is so because the government had focused on engaging stakeholders for collaboration and done its home work perfectly when the complaints were on. The government held collaborative meetings with banks and contractors. Banks were tasked to work out modalities that will ensure that contractors access funds and deliver on projects to time. The Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership (PIIP) agreement with banks that involve banks handling rehabilitation of roads as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a significant dimension to the strategy. The government is leveraging the private sector, which controls about eighty percent of the State’s Gross Domestic product, as crucial in the government’s drive to bridging the infrastructure gap and building the smart city of our dream. Access Bank is partnering with the State Government in Infrastructural upgrading of Oniru Network of roads under a Public Infrastructure Improvement Partnership (PIIP) arrangement. To strengthen the drive for a multimodal transport system, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu launched the Uber Boat water transportation service. The business, a partnership between the global ride-hailing company and Lagos State Waterways Authority, LASWA, is exploring the State’s abundant waterways and reducing the pressure on roads. Besides, it attests to the confidence global investors repose in Lagos as an investment destination of choice. HEALTH AND SANITATION The Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is bringing about a renaissance in the state’s public health sector. Under Pillar H, which stands for Health and Sanitation, the 149-bed Maternal and Childcare Centre, MCC, in Alimosho General Hospital was commissioned. The specialist centre, facilitated through the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, is evidence of the working partnership between the Federal and the State Governments. The facility is equipped with ultra-modern equipment that aid prompt delivery of maternal and child care services. Presently, the administration is working hard towards the completion of more MCCs. In fact, the Badagry and Epe MCCs are nearing completion. The latest of the several people friendly medical interventions in the State is the free surgical intervention programme for residents, which was organised in partnership with a non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Benjamin Olowojebutu Foundation. It comprised free surgeries for residents suffering from Lipoma, Hernia, Fibroid and Breast Lumps, as well as free dental and general health screening. A free medical initiative tagged “Healthy Bee Project”, a collaborative effort of the State Government and a Non-Governmental Organization, BOSKOH Lagos Healthcare Mission International (HMI), had earlier been held. Through the initiative, over 21, 000 people were screened at seven centres over a period of six days; 1417 free surgeries, including eye surgery for children and adults, were conducted. Most of the beneficiaries were children and the elderly. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and other top officials also lent their voices to the battle against the scourge of rape, child abuse and gender based violence in a ‘Walk to Commit and Act’. A very important step taken within the period is the resuscitation of the Adiyan Waterworks, Phase Two. The water treatment plant, with a production capacity of seventy million gallons per day, was begun in 2013. By mobilising the contractors back to the site, hope has risen for better  provision of safe drinking water to more than five million Lagos residents. The project will  help to address sanitation challenges and fight water borne diseases.  To ensure active participation and inclusion of stakeholders; a sensitisation drive took place at various levels. Children were not left out in the outreach, as they have been identified as change agents. Some of the communities where the Blue Box programme has been established include  Lekki, Oshodi-Isolo, Iru on Victoria Island, Lagos Island, Ikeja, Surulere and  Ijora Oloye The Authority is working hard to establish more Community Recycling Centres. The following facilities are ready for the Blue Box initiative: Oyingbo drop-off centres Makoko Resource Centre Ikosi Isheri LCDA Onigbogbo LCDA Obele Oni Wahala, Surulere Ibeju Lekki Eti-Osa Local Government Lekki EDUCATION AND TECHNOLOGY The third Pillar E is an acronym for Education and Technology. In the education sector, a new primary classroom block, with computer laboratories and outdoor recreational facilities, was commissioned at Ajegunle. The functional school building is not just a model, it signposts what is to come in this important sector. The rehabilitation of public schools has begun, with the inauguration of a Special Committee. No fewer than 5000 primary school teachers will be trained to complete the three-pronged education strategy of fixing the infrastructure, fixing the curriculum and fixing the manpower through recruitment, training and development of teachers. Giving credence to its policy to promote a smart city with technology, the administration organised The Art of Technology Lagos where the governor announced a N250m grant for  tech start-ups to encourage our young ones with fantastic ideas. The Ministry of Education on December 10, 2019, started a week-long programme to review the Senior Secondary School Unified Schemes of Work for better performances in schools. This government gave a N350million bailout for personnel cost and increase the subvention of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education from N200million to N250mllion. MAKING LAGOS A 21ST CENTURY ECONOMY In making Lagos a Twenty First Century Economy, which is the fourth Pillar, M, the administration witnessed a milestone in infrastructural development,t with the signing of the six hundred and twenty nine million dollar funding of the Lekki Seaport project. Funded by China Development Bank, the project will invigorate the Lagos economy and push it up in the index of largest economies in the world.  In continuation of the use of skill acquisition as a tool of empowerment, four thousand, eight hundred and eighty five youths graduated from the seventeen Skill Acquisition Centres located in the five Divisions of the State. Trained in vocations, such as fashion designing, hat and bead making, aluminium fabrication, shoe making and others, the graduands have increased the number of micro, small and medium enterpreneurs in the State. And for certain, their socio-economic status is bound to improve. To protect the real estate sector, curb fraudulent practices in the business and secure the multibillion naira property investment in the State, the administration has launched a Real Estate Transaction Portal. The platform will secure investments in property market by checkmating unscrupulous dealings. It will also afford property owners and tenants the opportunity to register and transact genuinely with one another without interference from third parties.  SECURITY AND GOVERNANCE Through the last pillar S, which stands for Security and Governance, the administration has kept  its promise for continuity by holding this year’s edition of the annual Town Hall Meeting on Security. Stakeholders came together to review the successes recorded in past years and strategise against emerging security challenges. As it is the practice, the event was also used to appreciate individuals and corporate organisations for supporting the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, LSSTF. In continuation of the administration of justice reform, the Government presented fifty vehicles to Magistrates. The gesture will not only motivate the Magistrates to perform better, it underscores their roles in facilitating efficient and effective justice delivery for every Lagosian. Enforcing discipline is an exercise that cuts across the Pillars. In the last one hundred days, the administration has mounted extensive advocacy against acts of indiscipline, such as breaking of traffic and environmental Laws. This has since been followed with enforcement activities spearheaded by the Lagos State Taskforce on Environmental and Special Offences. The Lagos State Special Taskforce on Land Grabbers, popularly known as ‘OmoOnile Taskforce’ with a mandate to rid the State of land grabbers, has continued to receive petitions. It is prosecuting several criminal cases against suspected land grabbers in courts. There are 35 land grabbing cases in court. Recent Statistics shows that there is an appreciable increase in the number of citizens who patronize the Taskforce for resolution of land grabbing cases. This is due in part to the intensity of publicity and awareness campaign as well as testimonies of people who have had their cases resolved through the Taskforce. In recognition of hardwork and commitment to duty, the administration honoured Iyabo Elusakin of Oriwu Senior Model College for emerging the overall best teacher in Nigeria. She was rewarded with a three-bedroom apartment and an award of excellence. The Divisional Police Officer of Ogudu Police Station, Celestine Kalu, was also honoured for saving the life of a robbery victim. The Committee of the Wives of Lagos State Officials, COWLSO, held its national Conference tagged: “Unlearn, Learn and Relearn: 21st Century Women’s T.H.E.M.E.S Perspectives/Approach”. Organised to empower women with skills to key into emerging opportunities being provided by the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the event drew over three thousand women who participated in the featured lectures, discussion panels, group presentations, and Gala Night. In celebration of the achievements and legacy of Brigadier General Mobolaji Johnson, the founding Governor of the State, A Day of Honour was organised in his memory. The Onikan Stadium, the venue, was renamed the Mobolaji Johnson Stadium. In the last months, the focus has basically been to foster speedy and time effective justice delivery equally amongst all. This is in recognition of the fact that this can only be achieved mostly through institutional and policy strategies. No doubt, the last One Hundred Days were tough – but exciting –  for the government. In the face of the challenges, Mr Governor demonstrated exceptional leadership qualities. Today, the story is different and the song is fast changing. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr Obafemi Hamzat are leading a revolution of ideas steeped in profound assertions. With confidence, the leaders are holding on to their sincere promise, believing that with the support of every Lagosian, the journey to A Greater Lagos is assured. Our agencies have been alive to their duties. LASEPA has shown that noise pollution will not be tolerated. Traffic law enforcement has been stepped up. Unfit hospitals are being shut down. Criminals are being reined in. Dear all, the summary of achievements so far is by no means exhaustive and we shall continue to engage with stakeholders to inform the public of developments in our dear state. CONCLUSION While thanking you all for your participation in this Press Briefing, I wish to commend the crop of Journalists, all media practitioners and the various MDAs for the support given to this Administration. I thank you all sincerely for having faith in the Sanwo-Olu Administration and  the THEMES Agenda. Once again, thank you very much. God bless Lagos State.      