A subsidiary of the Bhojsons Group – Bhojsons Plc (Motorcycle Division), distributors of one of the world largest motorcycles, has recognised and rewarded 22 high ranking dealers for their exceptional contributions leading to improved business growth witnessed by the company during the 2019 business year. The company honoured the 22 topmost dealers at its 2019 Annual Dealers Conference held in Lagos recently in recognition of the dealers’ remarkable contributions. Three dealers were specially recognised for their significant or exceptional roles toward the growth of the company in Nigeria. They include: Suleiman Mohammed of Sule Torris General Enterprise Limited, John Onyela of John Onyela Enterprises and Obinna Frank of O.O Francis Enterprises. Mohammed emerged the 2019 Dealer of the Year while Onyela and Frank were adjudged the first-runner up and second-runner up respectively. Speaking at the conference, CEO, Bhojsons Plc, Mr Kalpathy Krishnan, explained that the 2019 dealers conference was organised to honour and celebrate the dealers for their contribution to the growth of the business while also identifying and understanding the areas the business can focus on for improved growth for the coming years. “We are quite excited to witness this event where we have the opportunity to celebrate our dealers. We pride ourselves in being able to engage all our stakeholders at every level, and our dealers are not left out of this. While this recognition is a show of appreciation and encouragement to them, the joy for us is being able to sit in a room with them to hear directly on how our products are doing in the market, and ways in which they want us to improve,” he noted. In his remarks, the Group Managing Director, Bhojsons Plc, Mr. Vishant Dalamal, described the annual conference as an opportunity to express its profound gratitude and appreciation to dealers for the immense support, which has significantly impacted on sales and growth volume. “Our customers are our greatest assets and we will continue to appreciate their efforts in every way we can. They contribute a large percentage to our business and we feel it is better to hear from them. That is not to say we don’t respect the views of other dealers as we normally organise regional conferences that offer opportunity to also get feedbacks. Of course, the business is growing but I feel we can still grow much better,” Dalamal stated.