The Post Master General  of the Federation and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), Barr Bisi Adegbuyi, on Thursday said the Federal Government has raked in over N45.8 billion from stamp duties following the reforms introduced by the present administration. He said there is no conflict between NIPOST and the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) as well as the States Board of Internal Revenue over the remittances of stamp duties. He said the position of NIPOST is that the production/ printing/sales of stamp duties remain the sole responsibility of NIPOST even if it had moved from manual to electronic stamps. Addressing a forum of Information Technology Reporters at the Headquarters of NIPOST in Abuja, Adegbuyi who was flanked by the General Manager Counter Services, Mrs Toyin Egbesola, the General Manager ICT, Dr Thomas Ali Gaga and the Director Finance and Investment, Malam Usman Shabba said NIPOST is currently undergoing digital transformation that would change the narratives of postal services in the country. Meanwhile, NIPOST workers yesterday stormed the headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning in Abuja to demand the reversal of the plannned transfer of the collection of stamp duty to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Led by Comrade Ayo Olorunfemi under the aegis of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations of Government Owned Companies, the workers, barricaded the ministry’s main gate while the breakdown of the 2020 Budget was going. According to him, NIPOST has deployed ICT solutions/platforms to attain about 70 per cent automation of all its systems and operations across the country and by 2020 the systems would be fully automated.
Adegbuyi said NIPOST as the largest government owned institution in the country with its operations dating back to 1934 is currently leveraging digital technology to address the socio-economic problems confronting the nation. He said: “What we are doing currently is to change the narratives of postal service system in Nigeria by leveraging on technological platforms to drive financial inclusion, create jobs opportunities, promote Small and Medium Scale Businesses, create access to credit and mortgage systems and assist government to address the current security challenges. “We are currently partnering with JAMB, NIMC and other institutions and agencies of government to make our operations robust particularly in the financial services sector, e-governance, remittances, parcel and postal services . The CBN has also granted NIPOST the license for money transfer because of our large presence in all the local government councils in the country. “We are aggregating all the e-government centres, Road Safety, Immigration Service,etc. to ensure that the common man will benefit from them through the postal service system. You can imagine if pension are paid to our retirees in the villages through the postal service system, the stress associated with pension payment would be avoided and lots of lives would be saved as well from the risks associated with travelling. “ Adegbuyi said NIPOST management is currently embarking on infrastructure development, deployment of digital solutions/platforms, training and retraining of its workers among others to change the narratives of postal service in Nigeria, adding that partially commercialisation would place the future NIPOST in a position to generate huge revenue for the government. Meanwhile, workers of the Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST) yesterday stormed the headquarters of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning in Abuja to demand the reversal of the plannned transfer of the collection of stamp duty to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Led by Comrade Ayo Olorunfemi under the aegis of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations of Government Owned Companies, the workers, barricaded the ministry’s main gate while the breakdown of the 2020 Budget was going. The protest forced participants led by the finance Minister to address the workers who bore placards bearing various inscriptions. They demanded to have audience with the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed. The protesting workers, lamented that the amendment of the Stamp Duty Act by the National Assembly was done to allow the FIRS to collect stamp duty on electronic transactions, contrary to the global practice which places the responsibility of making such collection on agencies like NIPOST. The minister left what she was doing and in the company of the minister of information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed asked their leader to state their grievances. Olorunfemi said their demand was for the minister to take their protest to the Federal Government so that the collection of stamp duty will remain the duty of NIPOST as the workers had already projected a N500 billion revenue for the government from that source. Responding, the minister urged the workers to forward their grievances to her office, stressing that what is important to the government is revenue generation as government was targeting N400 billion from stamp duty in 2020.