By  LUCAS AJANAKU  The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said it has started the hunt for youthful innovators in the information communication tecghnology (ICT) sector to provide hochtonous solutions and create jobs. Its Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Prof Garba Dambatta, who spoke at Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Oshodi, Lagos, during the maiden edition of NCC ICT Research and Innovation Competition/ Exhibition, said the ICT sector has become a key driver of digital transformation and digital economy globally. The theme of the forum was: Promoting innovation and creativity in the telecoms sector. He said: “ICT innovation has been established as a veritable engine for sustainable economic growth and global competitiveness. Today, digital technology is proving to be a positive disruptor, enabling emerging economies to create wealth and implement life changing digital solutions to societal challenges, through ICT innovation. “Nigeria is not left out in the emerging technology race.The Federal Government has recently adopted a digital economic framework that will fast rack the country’s agenda to tap from the enormous potential of the fourth industrial revolution. The NCC as a regulator, appreciates the fact that the ICT industry stands at the epicentre of this initiative, hence we have positioned ourselves to deliver on our mandate to facilitate the development of the core pillars of digital infrastructure, digital platforms, digital skills acquisition, digital entrepreneurship etc.  “We also appreciate the fact that the rapidly evolving communication technologies could become a means of bridging the digital divide and achieving the digital economy agenda, while ensuring ubiquitous connectivity and providing consumers with a plethora of services that could change our economic lives for the better. Dambatta said it is in the light of this development that the NCC, consistent with its eight-point agenda to promote ICT Innovations and investment opportunities in the  economy, has designed the ICT Research & Innovation Competition/Exhibition as a strategy to advance the promotion of tech entrepreneurship and facilitating innovation and creativity in the ICT sector. “We are interested in ideas that are novel/original, commercially viable and that can proffer solutions to business and social challenges in our country. We also commit ourselves to regulatory efforts towards ensuring that the selected ideas are incubated and handheld to the point of commercialisation,” Prof Dambatta said.