Who else can share the secret to success than one who has experienced it himself?  That was why fellow National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) graduands as well as principal officers and special guests listened with rapt attention as Oluwaseun Babatunde Akasoro read the valedictorian’s speech during the 33rd convocation of Yaba College of Technology penultimate week. Akasoro, who graduated from the Department of Civil Engineering at Higher National Diploma (HND) level, attributed his achievement to self-discipline, hard work and self-denial of present pleasure. He said: “To every glory, there is a story.  It takes self-discipline to leave your comfort zone. You need to limit the number of hours you spend on social media and watching football match. You must sacrifice immediate pleasure for what you want to do. There is no holiday for self-discipline. You need to create a habit because nothing good comes easy in life. It is hard, but necessary to sit down and study.” Akasoro thanked his lecturers for the role they played in his education and the Rector, Mr. Obafemi Omokungbe, an engineer, for peaceful management of the college. He was presented with many prizes, including N100,000 from the YABATECH Alumni Association; and N200,000 from Oba Owolabi Adeniyi, Maforunyomi I of Igbobi Sabe, Yaba. The overall best at the National Diploma (ND) was Uluata Emmanuel Kalu also of the School of Engineering. The rector said the convocation was for 8,411 full-time and part-time ND and HND students who graduated in the 2017/2018 academic session. Of the lot, he said 148 students had Distinction; 1055, Upper Credit; 1,781 Lower Credit; and 418 Pass at HND Level; and 1,009 had Upper Credit; 2,575 Lower Credit; and 1,313 had Pass at the ND Level; while 15 graduated with Professional Diploma.  Omokungbe said the institution had achieved a lot in his two years as rector, including attracting a number of grants. “Early this year, the college won the Ford Foundation project grant of $100,000 in support of the development of Yaba Art Museum. The project also incorporates advocacy against sexual harassment (SH) and gender based violence (GBV). We are indeed grateful to the Ford foundation.  Yaba College of Technology was selected as Skill for Innovation Hubs (I-hubs) Project Partner by  UNESCO-UNEVOC.  The College is one of the three institutions selected for TVET in Africa.  This selection is a reward for its long years of active contributions to technology and skills development in Nigeria,” he said. The Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu, advised the college to work with relevant agencies, industries and researchers to address underdevelopment in the country. Adamu, who was represented by the Director of Tertiary Education, Dr. Joel Samuel Ojo, said:  “It is worthy of note that the curricula of the polytechnics and indeed all tertiary institutions are being reviewed and developed to include Entrepreneurship Education and Skills Acquisition as contained in the Master Strategic Plan (MSP).  To this end the collaborative efforts of all are required to transform the nation if we must join the list of the technologically advanced countries.” 