Ogun State is considering the upward review of corps members’ allowance of N19,800,  Governor Dapo Abiodun has said. Although he did not give a specific figure, Abiodun, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Job Creation and Youth Development, Mr Olalekan Olude, promised that it would be something ‘satisfactory’. The governor spoke at the closing ceremony of the National Youth Service Corps Batch ‘C’ Stream 1 at the orientation camp in Sagamu last week. He said: “We quite understand the yearnings of corps members in  Ogun State that government should add something to what the Federal Government is paying them. “Government is absolutely working along that line. I am not absolutely sure what the specific figure would be, but I can assure you it is something on the table and it will be satisfactory to all.” Abiodun, who expressed confidence that corps members had imbibed varying skills and training during the three-week orientation, admonished them to be humble and enterprising in any part of the state they were posted to. He said: “Stay away from drugs and crimes. Try to maximise the relationship and opportunities anywhere you are posted to. I know some of you see this as an opportunity to catch fun; but, for me, it is also an avenue for you to discover yourselves and know what purpose God has for you. “Try to also identify the needs in your various host communities you are posted to and strive towards improving the lots of those people via your community engagements. I can assure you that people in Ogun State are hospitable and your host communities shall give you the necessary support you need to excel.”  Abiodun equally urged them to always log on the state job portal: www.job.ogunstate.com.ng to upload their resume on the various employment opportunities as uploaded by government on the site. He said the state does not discriminate along indegenship or religious lines, noting that applicants that meet prerequisite on the job portal would always be considered on merit. Similarly, Ogun State Coordinator of NYSC Dr Faniyi Belinda, said a total of 1,833 were being posted across the state. She said: “It is instructive to announce that of the ,2,273 mobilised graduates posted to Ogun State for the mandatory one year service, a total of 437 have been relocated to other states on health and marital ground. I am glad to note that 1,836 have been posted to the nooks and crannies of Ogun State where they are expected as positive change agents to bring their knowledge and ideas to bear on the developmental strides of the state.” She, therefore, appealed to employers to provide adequate welfare facilities and other pecks in order to bring out the best in them.”