From Caleb Ijioma  The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Ogun State chairman, Comrade Bangbose Tomiwa Peter, has said students of Ogun State must enjoy the dividends of democracy. He made this statement during an interview with Campus Life. Peter said he would remain committed to the students, representing, fighting and agitating for their rights. He said the association had urged that the Ogun State Government to construct the roads that lead to state-owned tertiary institutions, build hostels and provide a conducive learning environment. “My plan for the students of Ogun State is that at every point in time we will always perform our duty which is to represent, fight and agitate for the right and interest of all Nigerian students in every situation. We have been doing it and we will continue to do it. “First and foremost my plan is that all students of Ogun State must enjoy the dividends of democracy.  We have put a lot of write-ups making demands on the government concerning the construction of roads that lead to our campuses, building of hostels in all our schools, making sure that the learning environment is conducive for all and sundry. Due to the fact that we just got on-board this year, there is a lot of work-load on us and we have been doing more of agitating and more of fighting for the interest of Nigerian students,” he said. Speaking on his plans for Ogun State students next year, he said that NANS would organise various programmes. “By the special grace of God as we are going into the year 2020,  we will organise programmes for Nigerian students programmes to shy away from cultism and drug abuse; to make them see beyond the school certificate. We have lot of things in store for them,” he said. Since coming on board, Peter said he had intervened in solving students’ issues – like electoral malpractice. “I could remember vividly during the last election of Ogun State College of Technology Igbesa, a student was disqualified for contesting for the post of speakership.When we got there, we saw no reason why the student was disqualified. “We give God the glory because the ban of disqualification was lifted and today he is now the speaker of that citadel of learning.  We have a lot of things in stock for them but we can only mention few” Reacting to the expulsion of Micheal Ifemosu, a 200-Level student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), for posting an open letter to the vice-chancellor of the university on his Facebook page in which he complained about the happenings in the school, Peter said he learnt that Ifemosu had sought legal advice.  However, Peter noted that NANS had set up a committee to look into the issue.  “Well, the case of Ifemosu is a very complex issue because the Open letter I wrote to the Vice Chancellor contained a lot of issues including transportation and security. “From my own findings, I was notified that Ifemosu was invited to a panel to defend himself and the outcome of the panel was what led to his expulsion from the institution. “Well the Leadership of NANS has met with the Vice Chancellor about what transpired and in the course of our enquiry, we were told that he made some allegations against the school which was not true and not justifiable which he also cannot justify. “When we met with Ifemosu (also I have met with him on two occasions), I told him that from our own side, as NANS, we would like to apologise on his behalf.  He said there is nothing to appeal – that he would only fight for his right. “They said he was found wanting of some things being listed in the letter of expulsion and currently as we speak, the leadership of NANS with the DCCS has set up a committee to look into the issue so as to come up with a recommendation in our forthcoming Senate meeting. “Presently, I was intimated that Ifemosu has gone to seek for the help of the legal practitioner and I think he plans to take the school court. I believe the matter is already processed to be taken to the court,” he said. 