Agusto & Co, Nigeria’s foremost Credit Rating Agency, has announced the appointment of Yinka Adelekan as its new Chief Executive Officer designate of the company. The appointment followed the retirement of its outgoing Chief Executive Officer – Vivien Shobo,  whose tenure needs  December 31, 2019. Following over two decades with the organization, Vivien leaves with an outstanding record of achievements further strengthening Agusto & Co’s formidable market position. She also led Agusto & Co’s African expansion initiatives by obtaining Credit Rating Agency licenses from the Capital Market Authorities of Kenya and Rwanda. Under her leadership, Agusto & Co has successfully rated most of Nigeria’s leading banks and pioneered domestic credit ratings for notable corporates such as Dangote Cement Plc, MTN Nigeria Communications Plc, Lafarge Africa Plc, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Julius Berger amongst others. Also achieved was the largest Municipal Bond programme and single largest tranche issuance – Lagos State Government’s N500 billion Bond programme and N87.5 billion Bond issuance; First bond issued by a deposit money bank in Nigeria in 2006 “the Access Bank N13.5 billion-naira redeemable bond”. First bond issued by an insurance company in 2008 “Crusader Nigeria Plc N4 billion Unsecured Convertible Debenture and first 15-year corporate green bond fully guaranteed by infrastructure Credit Guarantee Company Limited (Infracredit) – NSP-SPV PowerCorp Plc’s N8.5 Billion 15-year 15.60 per cent Series 1 Guaranteed Fixed Rate Senior Green Infrastructure Bond Due 2034. There was also the first commercial paper issuance under the new guidelines of FMDQ – UPDC’s N24 billion commercial paper programme and first hospitality corporate bond issuance in the Nigerian debt capital market – Transcorp Hotels Plc’s N19.7 billion Series I & II bonds Due 2020 among others. First FinTech corporate bond (callable) issuance in the Nigerian debt capital market- Interswitch Africa One Plc’s N23 Billion 7-Year 15 per cent Fixed Rate Series 1 Senior Unsecured Callable Bonds Due 2026. First logistics corporate bond issuance in the Nigerian debt capital market – TAK Agro Plc’s N15 Billion 16.49 per cent Seven-Year Fixed Rate Senior Bond Due 2026. World Bank credit rating assessment for City of Kigali and the 30 districts in Rwanda in 2015.