Lagos State Government has launched an intensive Human Capital Development boot camp aimed at ensuring that directors of Admin and Human Resources, as well as learning and development officers understand the human resource policy direction required to enable the delivery of the THEMES agenda. Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle disclosed this at the ongoing Human Capital Development boot camp, an intensive three-day programme which will run in four batches for 240 delegates across all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). She said that in furtherance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s commitment to the development of the civil service, the MDAs responsible for the human resources value chain, namely Public Service Office, Office of Transformation, Creativity and Innovation, Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions (METP) and Civil Service Commission are finalising plans to intensify ongoing reforms aimed at creating a vibrant, motivated and performance driven civil service. The training, which began on December 9, is scheduled to end on Friday. “At the core of the training programme is an understanding of the human resource value chain and tools to fully operationalise the Admin and HR directorates within the MDAs. “In addition, there is a focus on understanding new expectations from the directorate and also the need to strengthen the performance management process, workforce planning process and proactively identify the training needs of the workforce,” Mrs. Ponnle said. The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Biodun Bamgboye, who set the context for the Bootcamp, said the training seeks to address the noticeable gaps identified and boost the competence of the delegates in their understanding of HR. PriceWaterhouse Coopers, the anchor faculty for the training, will cover modules including workforce planning, performance management, strategies for transforming the public service for improved delivery, learning and development, selection and assessment, career management and succession planning, reward and recognition, digital workforce transformation and competences of the 21st century human capital development professional. Each participant will be given standard tools and templates to use to operationalise their learnings