This is one of the sought after tropical food crops in terms of demands, while some like it because of the nutritional benefits especially in the provision of iron, some do like it because of its sweet taste especially when ripe. Plantain is a good source of carbohydrate especially when ripe; therefore it is an energy giving food. And the good news is that the carbohydrates it contains are considered as “complex carbohydrate” which includes starch, fibre and sugar. The breaking down and absorption of such carbohydrates are slow which gives fullness thereby reducing appetite and making one lose weight. Therefore constant eating of plantain provides your body with enough energy. Plantain contains the mineral iron (when unripe) and vitamin B6 which plays a major role in the adequate production of red blood cells in the body and as well prevent anaemia and neuritis which manifest when they are deficient in the body. Plantain is very rich in fibre which makes it good for consumption as it will help to prevent conditions that irritate the bowel and also preventing constipation, bloating and other related health condition associated with improper digestion and also reduce appetite by increasing fullness. Plantain consumption can greatly help in preventing constipation. Unripe plantain, when compared with the ripe one, has low sugar which makes it a good diet for diabetic patients because it cannot trigger or worsen their already high blood sugar level. Psyllium contained in plantain can help to control blood sugar, therefore constant eating of unripe plantain can aid in prevention and treatment of diabetes. Unripe plantain also contains  manganese, potassium and   leucocyanidin  which is one of the phytochemical properties found in food,  its presence in the plantain makes it a source of food for those who suffer or wishes to prevent an ulcer.  The dry form of plantain provides ulcer healing and reduces the risk of developing gastric ulcers. Plantain goes a long way treatment and prevention of ulcer when taken regularly. Because of the nutrients contained in plantain, it contributes greatly in sexual health performance. Regular eating of plantain helps in improving male fertility. It boosts sexual health and it helps increase libido, and the vitamins and other minerals it contains helps to improve the general health as well. For good sexual performance, you need more unripe plantain with ginger and garlic. Unripe plantain which is very rich in calcium and that makes plantain to aid in strengthening our bones and also enhances stronger muscles, teeth, and nails. A meal with unripe plantain helps in preventing diseases like osteoporosis which means weakening of bones and also causes fractures. For you to have a strong bone, you need to start eating plantain regularly. Unripe plantain contains some amount of serotonin which expands the arteries, promotes blood flow and reduces the risk of homocysteine which involves a disease condition that leads to coronary artery diseases and stroke. Potassium contained in plantain also plays a great role in preventing heart attack and hypertension. Also fiber contained in plantain aids in decreasing cholesterol level, thus decreasing the risk of heart disorders. Plantain which contains a whole lot of vitamin A which is another antioxidant that helps your immune system to function properly. Vitamin A has a great role in enhancing the growth of the cell and improves the health of the skin. Therefore constant intake of plantain can help to develop the immune system due to vitamin A contained in it. Plantain which contains a lot of fiber which makes one feels satisfaction even for a long time after eating the food. Plantain is also low in fat. It is advisable for people trying to lose weight to eat plantain regularly as it will be of great help in weight maintenance. Plantain which is rich in potassium and vitamin B6 will help greatly in relieving menstrual pain. Eating plantain aids in controlling the symptoms of premenstrual such as bloating and depression. Also the presence of vitamin B6 in plantain lowers the risk of miscarriages in women. Nutritional values of plantain Plantain contains minerals and vitamins, as well as other essential nutrients which include potassium, carbohydrates, vitamin c, iron, rich in fibre, magnesium, calcium, vitamins A and B6, and more. It is also good to know that some of the nutritional values of nutrients in plantain vary as it contains more of these essential nutrients when unripe than when ripe. Eating it especially when unripe is beneficial but notwithstanding, plantain generally is power packed with essential minerals, vitamins and phytochemical components which makes it good for consumption and medicinal as well. Source: finelib.com  