Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad is a beneficiary of the ruthless judicial upheaval authored by the Buhari government. With the clumsy dispatch of the former CJN, Walter Onnoghen, using methods and measures that have been described as despicable, not to say downright inimical to the survival and independence of the judiciary, Justice Muhammad simply stepped in, damned the pangs of conscience, and has presided over the affairs of the third arm of government  as spectrally silent as cynics had long predicted. It is not clear what atrocious level of desecration of the judiciary, beyond the abominable level Nigerians have been witnesses to in recent months, would be enough to rouse his holy but silent ire. His responses to pertinent judicial issues of the day have been difficult to decipher. The senate confirmed him despite his lack of clarity and conciseness on iconic judicial issues, especially seeing how he mixed up terms, used inappropriate labels, and indicated just how unrepentantly conservative and inured to judicial independence he would be. The National Assembly served notice early in the day that the ninth parliament would be reactionary and subservient to the executive. But few expected it to sheepishly gloss over the screening of Justice Muhammad who almost from the beginning began to arm cynics with doubts about his relevance and composure. On the Department of State Service (DSS) invasion of the courts to needlessly re-arrest Omoyele Sowore, convener of the revolution now protest, Justice Muhammad has been largely silent. Speaking recently at the annual conference of the justices of the Court of Appeal, the CJN sidestepped the grave issue of appointing wrong persons to appellate courts and foreclosed that possibility in an argument that was full of emotional bilge water and incomprehensible logic. There would be no crossing from the bar to the appellate courts, he argued, because it would discourage those on the bench who had been trained from magistracy upwards. He failed to address the increasing patchiness of the courts, not to talk of the appellate courts, and does not seem to appreciate the nexus between mediocre judges and bastardisation of judicial norms and ethics. Like President Buhari whose overarching position as president seems to escape his presidency, the CJN also cannot seem to recognise that as the number one judicial authority in Nigeria he ought to be careful around the issue of religion. He obviously didn’t see any need for caution. In short, the CJN forgot himself. Thus, speaking at the annual judges’ conference at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Justice Muhammad declared: “As we all know, there are sections of the constitution that allow the implementation of Sharia personal law, and apart from that, we cannot do more. However, we have the numbers to amend the constitution to suit our own position as Muslims.” We? The statement shocked only those who continue to deny that President Buhari’s skewed administration is not anchored on a hidden agenda. The CJN can clearly not help but see himself more as Muslim and northerner than a Nigerian and jurist. Justice Muhammad is at peace with his own appointment, winced only at the gross violation of judicial sanctity by the DSS, wants full Sharia in the constitution, and can’t seem to recognise the mediocrity on full display in the courts. Just as few expect anything great and noble from the executive and the parliament, Nigerians must now become accustomed to expecting nothing significant from the judiciary.