 PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has approved the composition of a new board for the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), subject to Senate confirmation. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, also said the President has nominated a renowned tax consultant, Muhammad Nami as the new chairman. According to the statement, “Mr. Muhammad, a Tax, Accounting and Management professional, with highly rated qualifications and professional practice and licenses from relevant professional bodies, has almost three decades of practical working experience in Auditing, Tax Management and Advisory and Management services to clients in the banking, manufacturing, services and public sectors as well as non- profit organisations. Meanwhile, Nami’s predecessor, Tunde Fowler, has thanked President Buhari for the privilege he gave him to serve the nation and for what he was able to do with the support of all Staff. Waxing biblical, Fowler noted that the taxman job is one of service to one’s fatherland as it gives the opportunity to serve fellow humans. “Let me thank all of you who are here for what we have been able to do for our country. From the driver to the senior staff, everybody played a role.  But with change, sometimes there is resistance. People will not understand the vision, will not understand the reason for the change. I’ve left behind something, something, positive, that each and every one of you can build on. We have got a mandate. That mandate is not just to collect revenue. It’s a mandate to collect the maximum amount of revenue for all concerned for the benefit of all Nigerians,” Fowler said. The ex-FIRS boss said there is nothing automatic about having a second term, because it is even a privilege to serve one’s country. “We have the opportunity to show the world that Nigeria has a lot to offer. It was during this period that we had a top Director, representing Nigeria and the world at the OECD. It was within this period that Nigeria, for the first time chaired ATAF (African Tax Administration Forum), for two years running. It was within this period that Nigeri  a through your support, was appointed as the 1st Vice Chairman of the United Nations Committee of Tax Experts. So we have a lot going for us. “I like you to keep the flag flying. I hope that sometime, when I visit, my picture will be somewhere on the wall.. “I like to thank the President for giving me this opportunity of service. It’s a privilege of service to your country. But at the same time, I believe I leave behind a good crop of directors that can move this organisation forward. I will say that for the incoming Chairman, for the incoming Board of Directors, give them the support. The vision, I believe, is the same vision that we have. But how to go about it may differ. Open yourselves up to change,” he said.         