Fanen Ihyongo  Former Speaker of the Taraba State House of Assembly, Peter Abel Diah who resigned on Sunday night, has revealed he took the decision in the interest of the state. He spoke in a statement, in which he congratulated his successor, Joseph Albasu Alkinjoh and all the newly elected principal officers of the Assembly. He also thanked Governor Darius Ishaku for the good working relationship they had when he served as the House of Assembly Speaker. Diah’s statement was signed by his Chief of Staff, Evang. Philip Munlip. “Hon. Peter Abel Diah heartily congratulates the new Speaker of the Taraba State House of Assembly, Hon. Joseph Albasu Kunini and the Principal Officers on their election and inauguration. “He further wishes to express his profound appreciation to the Executive Governor of Taraba State Arch. Darius Dickson Ishaku for the good working relations they had while he served as Speaker of the House of Assembly. “Hon Peter Abel Diah also wishes to appreciate all the members of the Taraba State House of Assembly who resolutely stood by him during his trying period and to Tarabans in general, for their massive show of love and support via the many phone calls and text messages. “He remains committed to the peaceful coexistence of Taraba State and, by his resignation, has accordingly placed the interest of Taraba State above anything else,” the former Speaker said. The new Speaker, Joseph Albasu Alkinjoh, told reporters he will carry all colleagues along, including the former Speaker and Charles Maijankai who resigned as Majority Leader. He said the Assembly will make good legislations for good governance, in the interest of the people and state. Governor Darius Ishaku hailed the new Speaker for reuniting members of the State Assembly and as well reuniting the legislature with the executive arm of government. Fielding questions from journalists, Ishaku said he will give the lawmakers his maximum cooperation required of him as the chief executive of the state.