Oladele Oge Reports  Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) says it is leading a crusade to change teachers’ career progression path from the scheme of service approach to a more rewarding and result-oriented career-based strategy that embraces the principle of performance management. Registrar/Chief Executive of the Council, Prof Josiah Olusegun Ajiboye, stated this at the seventh induction ceremony of graduates of Professional Diploma in Education (PDE) and Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE) of the College of Education, Nsukka, Enugu State. According to him, the council has already engaged core professionals and international development partners, federal and state ministries, Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), among other stakeholders to fashion an appropriate career progression path for teachers in the country. Represented by the Director, (Professional Operations), Adamu Bello, Ajiboye noted that education remains a key pathway through which a country could attain development, adding that the critical element in the process is the teacher, whose service delivery and general management of the pupils and classroom leads to a qualitative transformation of the society. He assured Nigerian teachers of better rewards in their calling. Nonetheless Ajiboye insisted that  TRCN would not compromise its resolve to flush quacks out of the system by month end.  “By the end of December this year, something is going to happen, non-professional teachers will be shown their way out of the classroom,” he said. The Registrar advised the 175 inductees to take their oath of practice serious and ensure that they adhere strictly to the code of conduct of teaching profession. Earlier in an address, the Acting Provost of the College, Dr Okwudili Nwosu, had appealed to TRCN to protect teaching profession from quackery and imminent collapse. “TRCN mandate is to jealously guard standards in the teaching profession and to raise the standards from time to time as prescribed by the TRCN Act 31 of 1993, now CAP T3 of 2004,” said Nwosu. The highpoint of the event was a lecture with the theme: ‘Teachers professional competencies for effective instructional delivery in Nigerian primary and secondary schools’, delivered by Dr Theresa Olunwa Oforkasi of the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN).