It was the day many Nigerians looked forward to, to confirm whether or not their President will actually be getting married. Two days to the ‘wedding day’, the social media had been agog with the story about President Muhammadu Buhari’s marriage to Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. But as such stories go, there was no confirmation. Yet, people lapped it up, believing that a wedding was in the offing. In its daily update on the event, the social media claimed that a uniform fabric (aso ebi) had been chosen for the occasion. It said a musician would play at the reception billed for the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa after the ‘wedding fatiha’ at the State House Mosque. That day, reporters rose earlier than usual. Even though, many of them who work for the mainstream media had been cautious about reporting the story, they could not resist going to cover the ‘wedding’. It was at the Villa that everything finally unravelled. There was no wedding. Reporters were hard put, trying to locate where it was being held.  Everywhere was quite. No sign at all of such a big event. It was hard to believe that a wedding so heralded on social media was false. With the First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari, out of the country then, the rumour mill was abuzz. The public began to read meaning into her absence. October 8 – 11, 2019, were probably the three longest days in the life of the first family. They were days the social media went gaga with the wedding tale. The family rode the storm, leaving the public to believe the social media. The would-be ‘bride’ and her family also kept silent. The nation waited with bated breath for the big day, which eventually turned out to be an anti-climax. October 11, 2019, a Friday, turned out to be like any other day at the Villa. The workers went about their duties without any hindrance. When the time for Jumat, the Islamic prayer held on Fridays came, the muslims among them trooped to the mosque. Some ministers and friends of the President also joined them to observe the prayer. The real drama started after the prayer, as some of the ministers, on their way out, made jest of the waiting reporters. Even, presidential media aides Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu, who were contacted earlier, also made light of the issue. ”Are you the best man?”, Adesina said to media enquiry. Shehu said he was yet to get an invitation to the wedding, wondering if the reporter had one for him. Looking at the throng of reporters, a minister said: ”You are all waiting to cover the wedding?” Sorry for you o! Hahahaha!” Another minister said: ”It is for people with the right colour of cap who will have access to the reception”. A Presidency official said: ”The ceremony was concluded after Jumat prayers”. But the First Lady did not find it funny at all. In an interview with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Hausa Service, she said: ”I honestly do not know what happened because I was not here. Second, it is Buhari they said will be getting married and not me, Aisha, so he will be in a better position to come and tell the public if it is true or false. But, the lady they said he was going to marry and the person that told her the wedding was going to happen did not expect the wedding not to hold. It was after she saw that the wedding did not hold that she reached out to me. So, I am not in a position to say they will get married or not because I am already a married woman. So, it is none of my business”. In a tweet in the morning of the ‘wedding’ day, Farouq, who was away to the United States, wrote: ”There have been several speculations in the media regarding marriage between myself and Baba Buhari. I will like to clarify this, that me and Baba Buhari have been old time friends and Her Excellency, Aisha, is my good friend and I will like to maintain this good relationship. Dear Nigerians, please, kindly ignore all rumours as this is not true. We are currently completely focused on making sure we have a better Nigeria. Let us continue to pray for our dear country, Nigeria. God bless”. There were other fake news involving other personalities. These were the rumoured death of former military leader Gen Ibrahim Babangida, the ”stacking of funds” for 2023 presidential election by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the writing off of the presidential ambition of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar by the United States (US), the Osinbajo and ‘stacked funds’ The vice president was caught in the fake news web when the social media and a newspaper alleged that he was using the federal agencies under his supervision to ”stack funds” for 2023. In a post on ROOTS TV, an online publication, one Katch Ononuju claimed that Osinbajo was stacking the funds in anticipation of running in the 2023 presidential election.  The Vanguard claimed that he mismanaged the N90 billion the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) gave to the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2019 elections.  Osinbajo did not take the matter lying low as his lawyers wrote Google, the search engine, and Vanguard, demanding a retraction of the publication or face legal action. The lawyers described the reports as ”untrue and defamatory”, adding:  ”the reports are undoubtedly a barefaced attempt to unfairly discredit and expose our client to contempt and ridicule in the eyes of right thinking members of the society”. Reacting to the Vanguard report, FIRS said: ”It is not plausible nor does it make any sense that FIRS will commit its resources to a phantom campaign of N90 billion as suggested by… FIRS does not fund political associations”. Vanguard accepted its mistake and apologised. ”We have since discovered that the story lacks factual substance and we hereby retract it in its entirety. We apologise to the vice president, APC and FIRS for any inconvenience and embarrassment the publication might have caused them’’ Tinubumania Tinubu is always on the radar of the media. Anything that he does or does not do is news. In a January 10, 2019 online report, Vanguard claimed that Tinubu slumped and was rushed to hospital in Abuja after his appointment as co-chairman of the President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Council. It credited the story to a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. The paper consequently rebutted the story and apologised to Tinubu. The apology reads: ”On January 10, 2019, in our online edition, we published a news item titled: ‘Tinubu slumped, now in hospital after appointment into Buhari’s APC Presidential Campaign Council – Fani-Kayode’, which stated, among other things, that the APC chair of the President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Council Asiwaju Bola Tinubu collapsed shortly after he was appointed chairman of Buhari’s campaign council. We have since discovered the story to be false. We hereby retract the entire news story and apologise profusely to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and APC for the inconvenience and embarrassment the story might have caused them”. The US-Atiku call Atiku threw everything into the 2019 presidential election. To prove a point, he visited the US, which he had not been to for years. But to some people, the visit amounted to nothing. They came up with a story on FaceBook that the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had written off Atiku in the race for president. In the story attributed to Pompeo as breaking news, they wrote: ”I personally refused to meet him or have anything to do with him. I am really surprised that an individual indicted in the United States of America (USA) of huge corruption is being considered for Nigeria president and citizens are even supporting him”. Rebutting the claim, the US Diplomatic Mission to Nigeria said: #FakeNewsAlert: ”The US Mission has become aware of a material making the rounds online purporting to be from the US Secretary of State. We want to state unequivocally that the post is fake. If you have seen such manufactured item on FaceBook or received it via WhatsApp, please communicate that it is false”. The Soyinka story At a ”Countering fake news symposium” in Abuja organised by BBC about three months ago, Soyinka complained that the world is at the mercy of the purveyors of false information. He said he had on several occasions read about his obituary in the media when he is not dead. Citing instances, he said: ”During the last presidential election, I was quoted as saying that it serves President Goodluck Jonathan right for marrying an illiterate. Sometimes, some people quote me as saying if you vote for a particular candidate, your mother is a goat or your father is a gorilla. In 2018, I saw my obituary many times on social media, causing many people to call my line. Fake news is a threat to mankind. Fake news may cause World War 111 and it will be started by a Nigerian. It is unfortunate that many false statements have been credited to me”.