By Moses Emorinken, Abuja  The Federal Government has stated that it is working to integrate oral healthcare into the primary healthcare to scale up interventions to reach the underserved, especially those at the grassroots. The Director of Hospital Services in the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH), Dr. Joseph Amedu, disclosed this at the press briefing to commemorate this year’s National Oral Health Week. Amedu explained that although oral health was very important, it was mostly taken for granted with several factors contributing to the problems of accessing dental care in Nigeria. “The national dental healthcare policy targets the integration of oral healthcare into primary healthcare, which we aim to achieve by developing collaborations with appropriate stakeholders like the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), World Health Organisation (WHO), as well as oral health product manufacturers like Unilever to address the risks involved in oral diseases such as malnutrition, poor oral hygiene, smoking, refined sugars, and to provide the basic package for oral health care in PHC centres nationwide. Oral care being the entrance to the body is very important in healthcare system generally,” he said.  The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, in his address, said oral health was an integral part of general health and involves optimal functioning of the mouth and tissues in a manner that upholds individual self-esteem and enables him or her to contribute meaningfully to the society. “Oral health problems are regarded as a public challenge. Although poor oral health is not life threatening, it reduces the overall health and productivity of affected persons; ultimately, it may have negative impact across society if it is not checked. Despite the dwindling economy, the dentistry division of FMoH has vigorously implemented the national oral health policy, which was launched in the year 2012, particularly in the areas of oral health promotion, oral health service delivery and human resource development for oral health. “Recall that Unilever Nigeria Plc signed an MoU with the FMoH to reach out to 10 million Nigerian children across the six geo-political zones of the country during the 2016 national oral health week. Since then, about five million Nigerian school children have been reached on oral health education and behaviours in Abia, Lagos, Rivers, Ondo, Delta and Enugu states,” Ehanire, represented by the Director of Human Resources at FMoH, Dr. Aliyu Muhammed, said,