  THE Infinity Group on Saturday introduced a new lubricant brand, Motul into the Nigerian market. Being the exclusive distribution partner for Motul range of products in Nigeria, Infinity group said it is launching Motul range of products after extensive testing in the market for over one year. The glamorous ceremony for the unveiling of the product took place at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. It was witnessed the stakeholders in the automotive sector. Motul is a 165 years old French company. It was founded in 1853 and has since grown to become one of the leading lubricants manufacturers of the world. Motul is present in more than 160 countries including more than two dozen countries in Africa. As a pioneer in many synthetic and semi-synthetic products, Motul has always favoured innovation, research and development. The company is also a leader in the motorcycle lubricants market in the world. In the motorsports field, many manufacturers trust Motul for its technological developments in car/bike racing. Motul has thus developed close relationships with manufacturers such as Nissan, Yamaha, Subaru, Toyota, Honda and Suzuki, among others. Motul was the first lubricant manufacturer to use the ester technology for the formulation of its 100 per cent synthetic car oils. The vegetable-based esters benefit from lubricating properties, anti-shear quality and exceptional resistance to high temperatures. “300V”, Motul’s flagship range, experienced great development thanks to its presence on the most prestigious car/bike races. A statement by Infinity group said Motul’s research and development capacity is divided into two entities working respectively on “Automotive” (automobile, two-wheels, boat) and “Industrial” lubricants. Motul range of products, the firm said, include car lubricants, car care products, motorcycle lubricants, motorcycle care products, industrial lubricants (including food grade lubricants) and marine lubricants. Infinity Group, established in 1981, has since grown to become a leading player in the automotive aftermarket industry providing our clients with superior services and unique solutions. Exhibiting a strategy of constant expansion, Infinity has propelled itself forward into new and exciting challenges, steadily growing to become a major business entity across multiple industries.