 The Lagos chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has celebrated leaders whose contributions were described as exemplary. The award ceremony also coincided with the carol service of the body. Among the honourees were deceased leaders whose families received the awards on their behalf. Chairman Lagos CAN, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, said: “The essence of the event primarily is to thank the Lord for His goodness to all the Christians. “So we are having the Christmas carol to celebrate Jesus Christ. It is also a special day to give merit awards to all those who have served in this administration, who have been coordinators of local government. “It has never happened before. We believe in our hearts that we should honour them, many of them served with all their hearts. “The ones who have passed onto glory, we invited their wives or their children to come and receive the award. So it is a special day for us, a day of joy.” On the uniqueness of Christmas celebration, Bamgbola said, “There is no other thing to celebrate other than Jesus Christ. If don’t celebrate Jesus Christ, then you have nothing to celebrate. Jesus died for the humankind; He gave His life to save all humans. “He died and resurrected on the third day so that every human may receive salvation. That is the reason it must be celebrated. Not every day is Christmas, Jesus must be celebrated.” Charging Christians to truly imitate Christ, he said: “Christians should know that Christmas is to live their lives in Christ. When you live your life in Christ, you live your life in peace, you enjoy prosperity. “I am not talking about the prosperity of the world which is cars and money, no, I mean you having prosperity in God, you have peace, you have joy and your soul, spirit and body will prosper. “So my message to all the Christians in Lagos state is to rejoice and rejoice in the Lord and it shall be well with all of you and it shall be well with me in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.” Treasurer of the chapter and Direction of National Issues and Social Welfare (National CAN) Bishop Stephen Adegbite, said the award was to spur other coordinators to do more. “We decided to give the coordinators awards to appreciate what they have done so that others may do more. Because they are our soldiers and they have done well. “Without them, we cannot be everywhere. We thank God for their lives and that is why we are honouring them after serving in their offices,” Adegbite stated. Maintaining that leadership calls for spirituality and dedication, he lauded the Chairman for demonstrating high level of spirituality and commitment to lifting Christ’s banner. “So we as representatives of CAN, we have a wonderful leader in person of our chairman, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola who thought it wise that we should do this and we have the support of the association,” he added. On the preparation for Christmas, he pleaded with the federal government to review its banking policy, saying, “Well, as we prepare for Christmas, let me say to Mr. President, he needs to do a lot in the New Year. Nigerians are suffering and the suffering is getting bigger and bigger. “The policies on money and banking are not acceptable. If you want to put in your money for the year from N1million, you get N50, 000. “If I want to borrow N1million from the bank, I will pay as much as 30% that is 300,000, it doesn’t make sense anywhere.”