There are discordant tunes in the two major political parties in Edo State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and no one can say precisely what the outcome of next year’s governorship election will be. OSAGIE OTABOR examines the state of the two parties and their preparations for the 2020 contest.  No one can predict the shape the ongoing political realignment in Edo State will take until after political parties conclude their primaries. The two major political parties, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), are still battling with internal squabbles over the control of the souls of the state. In the PDP, it is has been difficult for the party to fill the void created by the death of Chief Tony Anenih. It became evident when, for the first time since the return to civil rule in 1999, the party could not take a decision on its zoning principles for the incoming party executives and its governorship candidates. If it were in times past, the decision would have been taken with inputs from Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, the Esama of Bénin, the late Mike Akhigbe, the late Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia, the late Chief Anenih and the founder of Setraco Construction Company, the late Inu Umoru. The battles in the Edo PDP during its heyday in power were at the behest of these men and the party has been unable to find leaders that fit into their shoes. Former Governor Lucky Igbinedion is now positioning himself to be the leader of the party, but his authority is yet to be affirmed across the state. He recently hosted many PDP meetings at his residence where critical decisions were taken. The PDP is still trying to recover from the loss of membership that defected alongside Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Some key loyalists that have been with the party throughout its turbulent times have also left. In a move to reassure its members of its readiness to win future elections, the party leadership has been holding meetings in each of the senatorial districts and local government areas. Last month, Chief Raymond Dokpesi met with PDP faithful in the various units, wards and was said to have been able to convince some persons who initially defected to return to the fold, as they were only tricked with positions in the APC. Dokpesi told reporters that he discovered during the interactions with PDP members in his locality that those that defected were promised various positions, including the deputy governorship slot. He said: “There have been a number of alleged defections from the party. People who were said to have gone with Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “In reality only those people who were after their personal interests and were promised positions in the APC by Pastor Ize-Iyamu that defected to the APC at that time. There were those that say they want to be deputy governor that actually left the party. “It became clear that individuals left for their personal reasons. The majority of the people are still with the PDP.” With its declaration of no zoning formula unlike in the past when talks would be the ‘leaders have spoken’, the Edo PDP might break further apart on who would pick the party chairmanship, as it would decide the fate of who emerges the party’s governorship candidate in 2020. It is likely the next PDP chairman in Edo would hail from Edo Central and in that case the chances of Kenneth Imasuangbon and Gideon Ikhine at the governorship race might be slim, as the party will zero in on Edo South to get its governorship candidate. In the ruling APC, the political realignment is quite shocking to political analysts. Die-hard political enemies are now regrouping either to wrest power from Governor Godwin Obaseki or to position themselves for 2024 when the second term of Obaseki will end. The political imbroglio between APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and Governor Obaseki has created a huge divide within the ranks of the party. Former key allies of Oshiomhole like Osarodion Ogie, Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, Andy Momodu, Chief of Staff Taiwo Akerele and a host of others are in support of Obaseki’s second term. The Edo APC structure is in firm control of Obaseki.  With the coming in of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the ranks of Oshiomhole’s support base in the Edo APC appeared to have swelled, especially in Edo North where both Oshiomhole and Shaibu hail from. Politicians like Abubakar Momoh, Pally Iriase and others that Shaibu and Oshiomhole once fought against in Edo North are now in the camp of Oshiomhole. The defection has also raised fears among the governorship aspirants such as General Charles Airhiavbere, Dr. Pius Odubu, Chris Ogiemwonyi and Saturday Uwulekhue. Dr. Odubu was present at the rally held at the residence of Pastor Ize-Iyamu to receive defectors into the APC despite the disapproval of the Edo State government, but some APC stalwarts have given reasons why the ongoing realignment within the Edo APC would fail. They said Airhiavbere who was the PDP governorship candidate in 2012 left the party because of Ize-Iyamu and has been providing needed support for the gang up against Obaseki. The APC members said it would be difficult for Airhiavbere to support Ize-Iyamu for the APC ticket. Odubu and Ize-Iyamu once had political battle for the control of Orhionmwon in the defunct ACN. Ize-Iyamu kicked when Oshiomhole insisted on running the second term ticket with Odubu. With both of them in the same camp again, it is yet to be seen if Odubu will relinquish his leadership position in Orhionmwon to Ize-Iyamu. The former PDP candidate in the 2016 governorship election has said his coming to the APC is not first to seek the governorship ticket, but to stabilise and strengthen the party. But the Obaseki camp insist that Ize-Iyamu and his followers are not yet members of the party. The APC primary is a few months away and peace seems elusive in  Edo APC. It is the primary that will determine if the gathering of the old foes is necessary in the first place. 