Our Reporter  You don’t have to be a nutritionist to realize that apples are healthy. Not only do they come in their own packaging – meaning you can eat the skin – they are also full of healthy nutrients. The healthy reason to eat them are endless  Whiter, healthier teeth Apples won’t replace your toothbrush, but biting and chewing an apple stimulates the production of saliva in your mouth, reducing tooth decay by lowering the levels of bacteria  Avoid Alzheimer’s A study on the benefits of apples shows that drinking apple juice could keep Alzheimer’s away and fight the effects of aging on the brain.  Curb all sorts of cancers Scientists from the American Association for Cancer Research, among others, agree that the consumption of flavonol-rich apples could help reduce your risk of developing pancreatic cancer by up to 23 percent. Researchers at Cornell University have identified several compounds — triterpenoids — in apple peel that have potent anti-growth activities against cancer cells in the liver, colon and breast.  Decrease your risk of diabetes Women who eat apples — at least one a day — are 28 percent less likely to develop type 2 diabetes than those who don’t eat apples. The reason this is a health benefit of apples is because this fruit is loaded with soluble fibre, the key to blunting blood sugar swings.  Reduce cholesterol The soluble fibre found in apples binds with fats in the intestine, which translates into lower cholesterol levels and a healthier you.  Get a healthier heart An extensive body of research has linked high soluble fibre intake with a slower buildup of cholesterol-rich plaque in arteries. The phenolic compound found in apple skins also prevents the cholesterol that gets into your system from solidifying on your artery walls. When plaque builds inside your arteries, it reduces blood flow to your heart, leading to coronary artery disease.  Prevent gallstones This is one of the apple benefit is eye opening. Gallstones form when there’s too much cholesterol in your bile for it to remain as a liquid, so it solidifies. They are particularly prevalent in the obese  Beat diarrhea and constipation Whether you can’t go to the bathroom or you just can’t stop, fibre found in apples can help. Fibre can either pull water out of your colon to keep things moving along when you’re backed up, or absorb excess water from your stool to slow your bowels down.   Neutralize irritable bowel syndrome Irritable bowel syndrome is characterized by constipation, diarrhea, and abdominal pain and bloating. To control these symptoms doctors recommend staying away from dairy and fatty foods.  Control your weight This is one of the health benefits of apples most of us are willing to get. Many health problems are associated with being overweight, among them heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and sleep apnea.  Detoxify your liver Your liver is responsible for clearing these toxins out of your body. Many doctors are skeptical of fad detox diets, saying they have the potential to do more harm than good. Luckily, one of the best – and easiest – things you can eat to help detoxify your liver is fruits, like apples  Boost your immune system Red apples contain an antioxidant called quercetin. Recent studies have found that quercetin can help boost and fortify your immune system, especially when you’re stressed out. That’s one of the most unexpected health benefits of apples.  Prevent cataracts Though past studies have been divided on the issue, recent long-term studies suggest that people who have a diet rich in fruits that contain antioxidants — like apples — are 10 to 15 percent less likely to develop cataracts. So, as you can see, apple benefits are endless! Source: besthealthmag.ca  