Kelvin Osa Okunbor As the year gradually winds down, operators of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2), Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL) has assured travellers and other airport users of hitch-free flight and business operations during the yuletide season. This is as BASL unveiled some of its AVSEC staff who were recently certified as Aviation Security (AVSEC) Instructors by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The certification was part of a larger plan designed to further entrench safety and security awareness; and the provision of customer-centric services at the terminal. According to a statement made available to Journalists in Lagos by Ayotunde Osowe of the Corporate Communications Department, BASL has constantly invested in facility upgrade and also, developed robust staff training programmes and sound maintenance culture at the terminal – to always keep the facility in top shape. This, according to the statement, has placed MMA2 in a vantage position as the yuletide activities are in top gear – with travellers, airport users and other individuals scheming to make the season worthwhile. In the area of security and quality customer relation, BASL has committed huge resources to train and re-train its workforce – all in a bid to deliberately deliver top-notch services to all airport users in line with world best known practices. At a brief ceremony recently where certificates were issued to the newly certified AVSEC Instructors, BASL’s Aviation Security (AVSEC) Manager, Mr. Olatunbosun Okeowo described it as a welcome development, saying it will go a long way to boost the standards already set by the terminal operators, which according to him, have received commendations from aviation regulatory bodies. While commenting on the facility’s preparedness to cope with expected surge in passenger traffic in and around the terminal, Okeowo said adequate human and material resources have been put in place; adding that workable strategies have also been planned and formulated to make the season count for all visitors. He noted that those recently certified by NCAA will definitely deploy their expertise in conjunction with all other security agencies to enhance passenger facilitation in and around the terminal before, during and after the year end festivity. In the same vein, BASL’s Safety Manager, Mr. Charles Aroguma noted that as regards safety, all fire-fighting equipment and integrity of MMA2 facilities for seamless operation is guaranteed. He, adding, “We are well prepared for the season. We have the capacity to respond to emergency and ensure business continuity.” To this end, notable innovations have been introduced at MMA2 to make terminal users’ stay at the facility memorable. These include seamless passenger facilitation aided by technology; non-aeronautical and marketing business innovations; the recently launched KidZone for fun lovers; Pineapple TV Christmas Grotto arena; general turn-around of the terminal among others.