Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike on Friday said that God rescued the state from the evil machinations of deadly political foes who planned to destroy it. Speaking during the Commissioning and Dedication Service of the 14,000 seater capacity church building of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries,  South-South 1 Region at Rumuola, Port Harcourt,  Wike said the evil forces unleashed war on Rivers State during the 2019 general elections,  but God conquered them. He said: “God fought our battles and conquered our enemies.  I saw war, but God fought the war for the people of Rivers State. “I have handed over the state to God and men of God like Dr Daniel Olukoye deserve our respect  and prayers.” He said when it mattered most, Christians rose up and prayed for  Rivers State.  He said God answered the prayers of Christians,  checking the political detractors in the process. “God has shown that He is God. God has used men of God like Dr Olukoya to pray for Rivers State. God will never depart from Rivers State, ” he said. Wike reiterated  that Rivers State is a Christian State.  He noted that hundreds of planted editorials in national newspapers will not shake the resolve that Rivers is a Christian State. He said: “I repeat it once again that Rivers State is a Christian state.  We will continue to promote  the will of God for Rivers State.  We are standing on a solid ground and we shall continue to grow. “Let’s continue to praise God for all his benefits.” The governor urged the church to fully participate in the politics of the country to determine its direction. He said that Christians cannot continue to look the other way whilst others hijack the political terrain and impose bad governance on the country. “You must stand up and decide the direction of the country.  Register to vote and  come out to vote. You must ensure that your  votes are counted. “The Christian church must be part of the process to transform the country.  The church in her numbers,  must participate in the democratic process, ” he said. He praised the leaders of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries for siting the 14000 capacity church in Rivers State.  He said by their action,  they have shown their love for the state.