By Damisi Ojo, Akure  Former Vice-Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Olufemi Bamiro, will lead the third governing council of Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, Ondo State. The Council was inaugurated recently by the founder of the University, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, who said he set up the institution to help reverse the exodus of Nigerian youths to other countries, by making available at home, what they are seeking abroad. He called on the Council to do more to forge a closer relationship with the town for the benefit of the students. The chairman, Toyota Nigeria Limited said: “I also want to breed pure Nigerian graduates to an essentially Nigerian atmosphere but with new attitude of service to one’s community, for me acquisition of knowledge is useless if not actively applied. “Therefore, I would like the university under this new governing council to forge a strong link between itself, the business world and government, and its parastatals, realising that at the end of their studies, the students will invariably be found in all these sectors.  “I, therefore, urge you all to come along with me and build Elizade University to an enviable height”. Chief Ade-Ojo disclosed that he had invested over N28 billion in the institution, promising to continue doing his best until it becomes self sustainable. He said his ambition within the next five years was to see the university ranking as one of the best 10 among the 179 universities in the country. He urged all stakeholders to begin to think of a viable endowment launch for the university for the purpose of assisting the founder, who is the sole financier of the university at this point in time. Responding, Bamiro promised to look into the challenges highlighted by the founder. He promised to adopt strategic plan to guide the council in its dealings, stressing that with good planning and commitment  to the vision for the establishment of the University would be realised. Bamiro spoke of the need for the Council, Board of Trustees(BoT) and the Vice Chancellor, Prof Oladipo Amund to align in order to uplift the university. 