The Command of the Nigerian Navy, NNS Victory with headquarters in Calabar has stated that it recorded 4 major arrests and intercepted smugglers with goods worth over one hundred and fifty-six million, eight hundred and forty-nine thousand naira (N156,849,000), in six weeks. The Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship Victory, Commander Vincent Okeke gave the breakdown of what his command achieved on Tuesday while handing over 7 suspects, a wooden boat and 432 drums of illegally refined AGO to the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC). Commander Okeke, recently promoted Rear Admiral said, “NNS victory is well aware of the desperation of smugglers to bring contrabands into the country especially ahead of the forthcoming Christmas and New Year festivities for personal economic gains.” “This is indicated by the 4 major arrests we have carried out within the last 6 weeks, during which goods worth over one hundred and fifty-six million eight hundred and forty-nine naira (N156,849,000) were seized.” “Nonetheless, the Base has mapped out modalities to deal with anyone found smuggling or any other nefarious crimes both on water and adjoining land areas.” On the case of seven suspects with 432 drums of illegally refined AGO, the Commander said “today’s handover presents yet another opportunity to show misguided elements that the NNS victory remains resolute to enforce the mandate of the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral IE Ibas to rid Nigeria’s maritime domain of all vices. Accordingly, NNS victory will not allow any market space for illegally refined products within its area of operation.” He explained that “On the 07 December 2019 NNS Victory patrol team intercepted a wooden boat laden with drums is POL products suspected to be illegally refined AGO together with a crew of 7 at Agbana west point by Tom Shot Island. The boat, crew and impounded product were escorted to the base. Upon arrival at the jetty, a total of 432 drums of illegally refined AGO was offloaded from the boat. Investigation revealed that the suspected illegally refined AGO was loaded from Bile creek in Rivers state and the boat destined for Cameroon.” Speaking while receiving the suspects, Stanley Eboh, a Deputy Commandant with the NSCDC said the suspects will face the full weight of the law. He said he had been informed that one of the suspects was convicted last year but he returned to the vice and emphasised that the service will not relent in its drive to end all forms of economic sabotage. The suspects’ names were given as Felix Owoyemi, Adesoji Omojoye, Oyong Etim Asuquo, Dominic Effiong Essien, Goodnews Effiong James, Ene Ekpenyong Nyong and Dennis John.