 LAGOS State Government on Sunday said it is now compulsory for operators of event centres/private property owners preparing to host more than 50 guests ,to notify the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). It also warned operators of places of attraction to comply for adequate arrangement on the management of traffic and parking of visitors’ vehicles. Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde, who read the riot act, warned that the state governement would no longer condone parking of vehicles on the roadside by guests. While commenting on the several hours of traffic gridlocks experienced on the Lekki-Expressway on Saturday, Oladeinde said the gridlock was caused by motorists who could not secure parking spaces i the venues of their social gathering and resorted to parking on the roadsides. He apologised on behalf of the government for the traffic gridlock. The Commissioner said it was regrettable that innocent citizens who were going about their lawful duties were forced to share in the pains caused by merrymakers. He said: “Henceforth, any social event where the number of expected visitors exceeds 50, organisers of such event must notify the General Manager of LASTMA in advance, especially, if it is perceived that their properties would not accommodate large numbers of vehicles that may be brought by their guests, the LASTMA will be on hand to advise them on what to do rather than allowing their visitors to block roads as this will attract stiffer penalties if caught.’ He warned that any commercial event centre, place of worship, night club/lounge, or private property owners that are shot on the account of an illegal blockage of roads by their attendants would not be reopened until their owners paid the stipulated fines. Vehicles towed on similar offences, he added, would not be released until the corresponding amount is paid as fines. The Commissioner lamented that there were so many event centres and places of worship on that Expressway operating without adequate parking spaces for their visitors/attendants, adding that most traffic gridlocks being experienced in that axis were caused by people that park their vehicles on the road, warning that the government would no longer tolerate the act of indiscipline. ”Many of these events centres and churches do not have enough spaces for their visitors especially on Lekki/ Epe express way, most often, public roads are used for their parking while on many occasions they extend parking of vehicles  to critical junctions and highways while not mindful of other road users,” he explained Reminding that the relevant section of the State Traffic Laws that guide the operation of events centres in the state as regard parking of vehicles is still in place, Oladeinde warned that the government would not hesitate to apply the law on any erring event centre or private property owner whose attendants block the