Olatunde Odebiyi Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited has received the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) award for driving digital economy among other private sector companies in the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry. The award was presented at the E-Nigeria 2019 conference awards night. The two-day E-Nigeria Conference 2019, hosted by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) under the guidance of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and in collaboration with public and the private sector as well as Non-Governmental Organizations and the academia, focused on digital transformation as a tool for achieving a productive national economy. Discussions at the conference centered on creating new job opportunities and economic development through technological innovation, harnessing indigenous innovation and creativity for poverty reduction in Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari attended the event in Abuja. Other dignitaries at the event were the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami; Director-General, NITDA, Kashifu Abdullahi; the Chairman, Senate Committee on Communications, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, Representative of the Senate Speaker, Honourable Lado, among other honourable guests. While awarding Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, NITDA commended and recognized the organization stating that “Huawei established in Nigeria since 1999, has made progressive achievements and contribution to the significant development of ICT in Nigeria through collaboration with the great Nigerian government and efforts of industry players. In the past twenty years, Huawei has been working with operators and other partners in building backbone networks spanning over 8000km, connecting 36 states and FCT, and developed over 24000 mobile base stations, covering half of the country’s population.” A management representative for the company in a goodwill message at the E-Nigeria 2019 conference said “Nigeria has embarked on a journey to reposition itself as the heartbeat and reference point in Africa and Huawei is committed to being a part of this journey to boost availability, accessibility and affordability of ICT services to turn digital inclusion to social and economic inclusion. Thank you!” The Deputy Managing Director and Head of Public Relations, Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, Kelvin Yangyang noted that to effectively achieve a digital Nigeria, capacity building of Nigerians in ICT cannot be left out. He stated that “Huawei has been investing strongly in digital skills in Nigeria. Huawei has upskilled more than 20,000 ICT professionals in the industry in the last 20 years. “Huawei Trained 2000 Nigerian youths in core ICT skills and empowered 1000 civil servants in 2019 under the ICT for Change partnership with the Federal Government. Beside the ICT industry, Huawei is working with more than 60 Nigeria universities in Nigeria to establish the Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy, providing the industrial recognized ICT certification including networks, clouding computing and big data.”