Labour experts have urged workers to prepare themselves for the challenges posed by technological advancement, climate change and globalisation. TOBA AGBOOLA examines what organisations need to do to prepare the workforce for the future.  The workplace of the future is undergoing a fundamental transformation because of technological disruption, high level of skills among others. This disruption is improving the way tasks are carried out in the workplace and driving efficiency. Organisations and companies are increasingly investing in automation and thinking machines to drive innovations, results and keep pace with the ever changing business environment. With a workforce of 85 million, Nigeria is home to an enormous labour market. However, this resource is characterised by low levels of skill and educational attainment. Just 15 per cent of the labour force has a post-secondary education. Speaking at a forum recently, the President,  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba said to be ready for the workplace for the future, there is need for an employee to possess skills relevant for the future of the workplace. He also called on the employers to provide adequate resources in order to retain the best of its workforce. He said Nigeria is losing the best of its workforce to other countries and will continue to do so because it is not providing resources to retain the best. He said: “With the advent of globalisation, the world is becoming more and more of a global village. And we cannot be able to retain our best if the environment is not competitive enough. Today, what drives the world is knowledge. We have seen that around the world, our best are stolen because we cannot retain them if we don’t have a good package to retain them. “We are gathered here today to examine, brainstorm, discuss and proffer pragmatic ideas to the challenges of today and fears of tomorrow confronting Nigerian workers. “As leaders, we owe it as a duty to our followers to go beyond providing solutions to the problem of today but also to prepare answers to the questions of tomorrow. “Technology comes with challenge and opportunity. Workers around the world and particularly in Nigeria cannot be left behind. We should prepare for the now’’. He, however, said while labour leaders attempt to answer the questions posed by the future of work, they should be anxious to dispose all or most of the concerns that exist in the contemporary world of work. Wabba said while other countries have developed an automated platform for minimum wage and are focused on living wage, Nigerian workers are forced to wait for too long to get a meagre increase in minimum wage and  adjustment in salaries Corroborating, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State, Mrs. Ganiyat Raji, urged workers to possess necessary skills relevant for the future of the work place. She said there is high unemployment rate in the country, adding that  there are also job vacancies in organisations waiting to be occupied by people with the right qualifications and requisite training. Raji, further noted that preparing the youth for the workplace of the future, requires that a review of the system, adding that the current model of education, career planning, and job searching would shift. She also stated that considering the dynamism in the global labour market, workers need not wait the shift arising before learning and teaching the new rules of success. This, according to her,  requires the workforce to be proactive and strategic-thinking. She said: “Preparing for the future work must give recognition to the wave of technological breakthroughs. We cannot fight innovations or disruption, what we can do is to change with time to be relevant. “Every field is open to revolutionary transformational development. Robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) are eating jobs at an alarming rate. Getting ready for the future work challenges in the technological revolution era, workers need to improve their virtual collaboration skills, digital and media literacy, and how to boost inmate creative intelligence skills. “The Lagos State government, through the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment recognising these challenges, provides a wide range of youth development initiatives such as creation of five job registration/labour exchange centres, employability skill training for youths across the state, organising various employability trainings, computer training and software development, and Lagos State graduate internship programme. Speaking  at the opening of the 14th International Labour Organisation (ILO) African Regional Meeting in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, the ILO Director-General, Guy Ryder called on African countries to seize the opportunities that exist on the continent to advance towards a human-centred future of work. Ryder said: ‘’Africa has every reason to regard the future with confidence. Young, rich in resources, dynamic and creative, it offers possibilities which in many ways, do not exist in other regions. However, as always, there are challenges.’’ Other challenges, he said, include a social protection financing gap amounting to 68 billion US dollars a year; economic, social and migratory pressures; and the impact of climate change and globalisation. “What we seek is a future of work with social justice as the surest guarantee we can have of peace and prosperity in Africa and in the world. This is the unfinished business of our 100- year- old organisation which we must take forward together.” Speaking on the ‘human-centred’ approach, Ryder said this  is based on investing in people’s capabilities, the institutions of work that ensure that labour is not a commodity, and in decent and sustainable work, particularly in the green, rural and healthcare economies. He also called for accelerated action to implement the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the Global Compact on Safe and Orderly Migration, as well as promises made by governments to tackle climate change. Regional Director, Ford Foundation, West Africa, Mr Innocent Chukwuma, said the foundation is committed in preparing young people for the life ahead, adding that the future belongs to the youth. He said human capital is the most suitable resource any nation can have, not oil, gold or diamond, noting that natural resources faces the problem of depletion. He said: “But well trained and motivated, workforce can take any nation to great height and that makes the difference between a first, second and third world. ”If you look at the number one generator of foreign exchange to Nigeria presently, it is diaspora remittances. In 2018, it amounted to $22 billion, whereas if you look at this year’s budget, the expected revenue from oil and gas is N12.5 billion which means human capital generates far beyond oil revenue”. 