INSPECTOR-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, and a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DIG) of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Mr Abba Kyari, on Monday appealed a court order directing them to produce a suspected dead suspect in court, either “dead or alive”. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the duo also filed motions asking the same court, a Jos High Court in Plateau State, which gave the initial order, for its stay of execution. NAN also reports that Justice Dorcas Agishi, of the Federal High Court, Jos, had ordered the IGP to produce Nanpon Sambo, who was on trial before her for alleged illegal possession of firearms, or face contempt charges. Justice Agishi ordered that the duo must appear before it on December 9 and explain why they should not be jailed for gross contempt of court. The duo, who did not appear in person, filed an appeal and a motion on notice, asking for a stay of execution of the earlier order for the production of Sambo “dead or alive”. Instead of appearing, as directed by the court, they filed the appeal on Monday through their counsel, Joshua Ayanna, at the registry of the court and left without stepping into the court room. At the resumed hearing yesterday, Sambo’s counsel Mr. D. G. Dashe told the court he had just been served with the two processes in court. “My Lord, the bailiff has just been here in court with a motion on notice for a stay of execution of your order, which directed them to produce Sambo. “My worry is that in spite of filing an appeal and a motion on notice at the Registry this morning, there is nobody or counsel in court as we sit, to represent them. “In the first place, I wonder why they could go on appeal of such an order, because if the suspect is dead, as they claimed, and the court has ordered them to produce the corpse, they should just comply,” Dashe said. The lawyer applied for time to enable him study the two processes filed for an appropriate response. Justice Agishi adjourned the matter till December 16 for hearing of the motion on notice.