By Ozolua Uhakheme Riding the storm with God in my sails is essentially about gratitude a deeply felt expression of gratitude of the part of the author to his creator for the extraordinary kindness and protection he enjoyed through the duration of a successful   but sometimes perilous life journey. After the near fatal encounter at Ikeja airport with a British interrogator on July 30th 1966, three battlefront injuries sustained during the Nigeria Biafra hostilities; after being detained at the end of the war; after being cleared by a military panel and reabsorbed in the Nigeria Navy, the author was able to rise to the apex of his professional career to become chief of the Naval staff, what else could he do but give thanks God for his great favour. But this book is also, quite simply, a story in which the author, who is the central figure of the narrative, reveals the stuff of which he is made witty and intellectually alert, patriotic and principled, a hard worker, a mobilizer and a leader, a devoted family man,  a successful  business man and employer of labor The sixteen chapters are clearly captioned to make for easy reading with each chapter dealing on a specific event or string of events in the authors life history.  Although the events narrated are less chronological, there is an underlying lien of coherence that runs through the entire volume, I therefore recommend that the chapters be read in small thematic group which will help the reader understands and appreciate the landmark events which impact and define the man. Thus, it is suggested that chapters 1 and 2 be read together as “childhood and early adult years”, Nan 15 present “Madueke the devoted family man”. However, I am constrained to dwell a little more on a couple of events which I consider pivotal in the book and which best reveal the outstanding the legacies of Madueke as a visionary leader. Between January 5th 1984 and August 29th 1986, Madueke served as the military Governor of Old Anambra and Old Imo States respectively. It is pertinent to note that the two Old Anambra and Old Imo states today are made up of the five states of the South East namely Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo and Abia. It is neither also Special Advisers nor Special Assistants. Yet, apart his every significant achievement in both states in the areas of road construction, primary health institution and environmental sanitation, Madueke left 2 monumental legacies for which he will continue to be remembered in history (all within a time lag of less than three years) Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu. This was an abandoned project, overgrown with grass, hardly beyond foundation level with #5million being owed contractors when Madueke became the Governor of Anambra, within a few months, his administration which had little or no funds, managed to bring the contractors back on site, mobilize the people of Anambra with the launch of a Stadium Appeal Fund, visited all the Local Government Areas and the major cities of Enugu, Onitsha, Lagos, Jos and Kano in search of funds and raised enough money to complete that stadium in a record time of 20months. Imo Airport Project, Owerri. On arrival in Imo, Madueke identified the people’s need for an airport, mobilized them using the strategy that worked for him in Anambra, and was able to start and move the Imo airport project to a point of no return with the money his government realized from the Airport Appeal Fund, also in record time These two seminal achievements were narrated in great detail by the author in chapter 8 and 9 and there is no more that can be said than to invite all well-meaning citizens of Old Anambra and Imo States to read through these chapters very carefully in order to know the about his accomplishments in the governance of these states. Abacha’s Provisional Ruling Council. It will not be fair not to highlight, as part of Madueke’s sterling legacies in government, the role he played as a member of Gen. Abacha ‘s provisional ruling council. His general disposition towards dialogue and compromise on the Abiola issue, as well as his uncompromising stand on several other issues of national governance earned him the displeasure of the commander-in-chief and precipitated the truncation of the naval career. The same acute sense of patriotism, justice and fairness permit the views expressed in chapter 16, A country of our own where the author advocates the need for a decentralized structure of governance in Nigeria, Basically, he argues that it is absurd that the federal government should keep all the resources to itself and determine from Abuja the need of the federating states. A better approach would be for national Funds to be passed on to states which should be in a better position to know their problems and needs and how to use the funds available to address them. An example is the federal ministry of agriculture where the author asks: “who are the Federal Farmers”? Again how can somebody in Abuja know better than the man living in Abia or Kogi which roads are bad in these states and why the governors of these states wait for the federal government to come and maintain roads that run through their states all in the name of “federal roads” when it is their own people who bear the brunt of the bad condition of these roads? Such issues term the crux of the author’s position in chapter 16 when he writes: “It is my conviction that unless and until we address the fundamental defects of our structure, failure and difficulty in governance will continue to dog Nigeria, irrespective of who, or which political party, was in power”. The title of this book Riding the storms with God in my sails does justice to the author’s life experiences. He had indeed ridden storms but with God in his sails he was able to coast to safety: in all these he was a conqueror.