By Habeebullahi Abdulwasiu  The way people with disabilities are being treated in this part of the world is not encouraging , and this calls for redress. Both physical and mental disability is distinct from each other. A physical disability is a limitation on a person’s physical functioning, mobility, dexterity or stamina, while mental disability is a behavioral or mental pattern that causes significant distress or impairment of personal functioning. In view of the foregoing, it is clear that for a person to be physically disabled does not in any way translate to mental incapacitation. However, it’s pathetic that in this part of the world, people with disabilities are often considered ‘human wastes’ a development that often impairs these kind of people to demonstrate their God-given potentials. It’s like the biblical came going through the eye of a needle for such people to venture into politics.  Intestinally, such person’s kinsmen might be his first enemy, aiming to shoot down his ambition. Physically challenged people face disdain on daily basis by people they relate with. In schools, social gathering, religious houses, just name it; the scenario is almost the same. My curiosity to know more about people these set of people actually opened my eyes to reasons why many die of depression. I quizzed a woman with an amputated leg, who expressed to me the pains she goes through in relating with other people around. “I find it difficult to mingle with people I used to mingle with before I was involved in an accident which led to one of my legs being amputated. People don’t even want me in their company at all,” the victim began rather tearfully. “Sometimes I cry and feel like committing suicide,” she continued, “My husband has since divorced me. Only a few little members of my relatives show me love.” Mr badmus Olowookere was another victim. Olowooker who was born crippled, lamented the kind of life he has been living since he was born. According to him, friends and family members show him support, albeit in sprinkle. “My friends class me as a wild animal that cannot live among human beings. I cry a lot. I sometimes wonder if I there is a sin I committed against God that led to my present predicament because the hatred is becoming unbearable.” In the midst of this, there are yet thousands of disabled who the world once condemned into the trashcan; but are today living their dreams by turning their situations around. An instance is Sosoliso plane crash survivor, Kechi Okwuchi who in 2015, graduated with a First Class from University of Thomas Houston, Texas. She was inducted into six academic honor societies. Nkech also turned out the outstanding student in the university’s’ Department of Economics and has already been accepted into a graduate school for her MBA. She was also chosen to give the commencement address to the class of 2015 at her school.  Recently, the speaker of House of Representatives Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila appointed another disabled person Mr Abdul Salam Idowu Kamaldeen as special assistant on special needs/equal opportunities. Kamaldeen was a victim of polio infection and was once a Lagos street beggar before fate smiled on him. Another typical example is the popular juju musician Yinka Ayefele who suffered spinal cord break in the wake of a ghastly motor accident in 1997. Since then, he has been wheelchair-bound. With a thriving juju band, three radion stations and other pockets of investment here, Ayefele is a living testimony of resoluteness in the face of adversary. The above, among many others I believe, should be enough to change our perception towards those that are physically disabled. They never wiashed to find themselves in that state, but no man can work beyond his fate. Written by Habeebullahi Abdulwasiu, a 200- Level undergraduate of Mass Communication  Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko.