Oyo State Police Command on Wednesday decried the call by the Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) , Hon. Ayodeji Abass Aleshinloye, on sacked council chairmen to resume duty in their respective offices. It described the call as an invitation to anarchy and lawlessness in the state. Commissioner of Police , Mr Shina Olukolu condemned the call by ALGON , saying the action is a recipe for chaos, lawlessness and unwittingly encouraging disturbance of public peace, which he said will not be allowed by the Command. In a statement by the Police spokesman, Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police in Ibadan on Wednesday, the state Police boss admitted all the executive chairmen, vice chairmen, councillors and political appointees have been dissolved by the current Oyo state government. The statement entitled: ” Re- Oyo ALGON directs members to resume duties on 18th December , 2019 : An appeal for reason as against emotions “, came on the heels of heavy security beef up around local government councils across the state. In some of the local government council headquarters visited, all the entrance gates were securely locked while workers stayed away in fear of security breach . The Commissioner of Police , however, appealed to members of the public to remain calm and go about their lawful duties without fear of molestation. To the aggrieved parties, the police boss urged them to explore legal means and allow peace to reign in the state and pursue their grievances to its logical conclusion in the law courts. The statement reads in part: “The attention of the Commissioner of Police Oyo State Police Command, Shina T. Olukolu has been drawn to a purported special announcement allegedly signed by the Chairman Oyo State ALGON, Hon. Abass Aleshinloye directing all the Executive chairmen, Vice-chairmen, Councilors, and Political appointees dissolved by the current Oyo State Government to resume duties in their respective offices in the Local Government councils today 18th December, 2019. ” The Commissioner of Police wishes to state that it is a legal maxim that results to self help in any circumstances is a receipt for chaos, lawlessness and unwittingly encouraging disturbance of public peace. Consequently, the Police wishes to reiterate that the Command will not fold its arms or stand by while any group of persons engage in acts that will lead to breach of peace or threat to peace and tranquility in the State. “For the avoidance of doubt, it is the responsibility of the Police to protect lives and property, enforce law and order, arrest, investigate and prosecute offenders. Therefore, any persons or group of persons that takes any action that will lead to infraction must be ready to face the consequences of their actions. To the criminally minded individuals or social miscreants who may want to seize the opportunity to cause mayhem, they are warned to stay clear or face the wrath of the law. “The Commissioner of Police, therefore, wishes to seize this opportunity to advice the parties concerned to allow peace to reign in Oyo State and pursue their grievances to its logical conclusion in the law courts. Consequently, all the peace and law abiding citizens of Oyo State are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses without any fear of molestation or threat from any individuals or groups. ” As adequate security measures have been placed to protect lives and property and also to respond promptly to any security threats from any individuals or groups who may be bent on disturbing the relative peace and tranquillity being enjoyed by the peace loving people of Oyo State.”