Sola Adeyanju Reports   She was surrounded by a legion of her students from the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Oto, Ijanikin. Dr. Foluso Aina Onalapo, a teacher of History at AOCOED, Oto/Ijanikin, has captured her grass-to-grace story in a book she says is handy for students and young adults at the peak of their various careers. Hers is a story of triumph in the face of adversity. It is a story of resilience amid life’s challenges. It’s also a lesson on how heeding God’s instruction can catapult man to the very top of his dream. Therefore, when the chief Lecturer in the Department of History at AOCOED was called upon, she couldn’t help but launch into a praise song. Her family members and other well-wishers joined her. It was at the launch of her book: “His grace alone: My educational travails&victory”. Onalapo couldn’t have asked for a more befitting moment. Having retired as a school principal and a Level-13 officer from Kwara State Teaching Commission in 1999, she had returned to Lagos to re-join her family. In her quest to still impart knowledge to the younger generation, she joined the services of AOCOED in 2001. However, as someone who had spent her entire life in basic and secondary school, she found the tertiary institution an entirely new terrain. More worrisome was the fact that being in an academic environment, she was encouraged to go for her Ph.D, in which she had little or no interest. “At the time, I wasn’t having any desire in doing Ph.D, and you can’t do a Ph.D without having interest. I felt that Ph.D was not relevant to what I’d done all along before my new job in AOCOED,” Onalapo told guests at the launch of her book. As fate would have it, she did not register for Ph.D until four years later. Interestingly, her desire was further reinforced by a prayer session she once had with some Christian brethren about 30 years ago, where her pastor revealed that God had destined her to have a Ph.D. Today, not only is she a Ph.D holder from the University of Lagos, she is also a chief lecturer, which is the peak in colleges of education in Nigeria. “I have decided to capture all my experiences and travails, especially in the course of my Ph.D in this book. I want it to be an inspiration to others, that one must be determined and learn to follow God’s instruction always,” she added. “I want people to know that there is nothing God cannot do. I believe that with God on your side, you can climb mountains. “I got employment in AOCOED in 2002. In an academic environment, you are encouraged to do your Ph.D yet I was not prepared until 2006/2007 academic session when I eventually applied for the Ph.D form. Even after I’d done the course work, I still encountered challenges during the research aspect. At a point, I felt like giving up, but then I would remember that divine promise by God that I would do Ph.D and succeed.” Vice President, Living Faith Church, Bishop David Abioye, who unveiled the book, admonished guests to take a cue from the author’s closeness and firm belief in her Creator. In his words of exultation, Bishop Abioye described the author as a relentless individual who put God first in anything she did. Abioye, who was represented by Pastor Adegoke Adeleye, said: “A lot of people out there want to become very rich and famous first before writing their autobiography; but Onalapo decided to honour God by putting her modest achievement in a book form to serve as an inspiration to younger folks. “By this step, she is indirectly telling us that man needs to show appreciation at every level God has taken him to. Dr. Onalapo has earned this feat today because of her diligence, dedication, faithfulness and trust in God.” He urged those in attendance to emulate the author who has solidified her presence in the academia through her various publications.  Book reviewer Dr Ebun Yonlonfoun from the Department of Educational Management  and History, Tai Solarin University of Education, Ijagun, Ogun State, noted that the seven-chapter book dovetails into one another, espousing topics such as the author’s background; her adoption of patriarchal language; human struggle in quest for survival; history of education in Nigeria; copious quotes from the Holy Bible; parental role in child’s development; women emancipation; as well as their duties at the home front, among many others. “On the whole, the book is highly educative and informative. It is written in lucid language and a refreshing manner. The author has made use of available primary and secondary sources which are well documented in the bibliography. This book is therefore what everyone must possess and keep in family archives for posterity, “she concluded. Provost of AOCOED Dr Aina Ladele who was also represented by her deputy Dr Deborah Dele-Giwa, said the author has made the institution proud. “We are all gathered here to celebrate the success of one of our own. Thanks for making the college proud. You have just started and we are sure you will get to the top,” she said. 