Our Reporter  Governor Seyi Makinde has inaugurated the members of the House of Assembly Service Commission. He has also appointed Liaison Officers to oversee the 14 federal constituencies in the state. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, quoted the governor as saying during the inauguration of the two bodies that his administration remains determined to empower the people and deliver dividends of democracy to the people. During the inauguration of the House of Assembly Service Commission, headed by the immediate past Deputy Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Abdulwasi Musah, the governor charged the commission to remain independent and to guide the House of Assembly on that path. He said: “I will like to congratulate the members of the House of Assembly Service Commission on your appointment, which was based on merit. Dr. Abdulwasi Musah, you have been the Deputy Speaker before and I believe the experience you have gathered in such an exalted position will be utilized in this present assignment. And I also need to say that there is a clear distinction between politics and governance.  “Governance is looking after the wider interest of the entire state while politics deals with one’s political leaning but this is governance and we want you to have the wider interest of the state at heart in discharging your duties. “I also need to add that there is a clear separation of powers between the Executive, Legislature and the Judiciary. So, we don’t want a rubber-stamp legislature. “We want you to assist us to achieve that objective where debates are very robust. Sometimes, I may even sign things that will come to the House of Assembly, which are not totally my idea because I and other executive members take decisions based on consensus. So, my personal preference does not fly sometimes when we hold exco meetings.” Makinde, while inaugurating the Government Liaison Officers, said they were put in place as his eyes and ears across the state in order to assist him in the onerous task of empowering the people. He charged them to ensure effective feedbacks to the government in order for it to be able to deliver on its promises to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people at the grassroots. 