 The Federal Government has unveiled a five-year national broadband plan to increase penetration from its present coverage of 37.8 per cent to over 70per cent, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami said on Tuesday. Tagged: National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020-2025, he said pervasive broadband penetration will certainly make the country a truly digital economy. He spoke yesterday at the inauguration of a 25 member committee in Abuja. The new NBP is sequel to the first NBP 2013 – 2018. The new NBP Committee has the Managing Director/CEO of Main One Cable Company Limited, Ms. Funke Opeke, as Chairperson with Dr. Bashir Gwandu as Co-Chairman. The Executive Commissioner, Technical Services, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Engr.Ubale Maska, is to serve as the Secretary to the Committee and will be supported by four workers of the Ministry in the secretariat. The committee is to develop a new NBP that will be the guiding template for the development of this very important area of telecommunications. The Committee is to take a critical look at where the country is after painstaking review of the 2013-2018 phase and the status of penetration now. The members are enjoined to also examine the challenges with a view to proffering solutions. They should also look at the position of growing and emerging technologies among others. The new NBP has the collaboration and support of the United Kingdom (UK) Government. The inauguration of this new Committee is a follow up to the launch of the National Policy for Digital Economy and Strategy by President Muhammadu Buhari, in November 2019. tion of digital economy. The Committee’s work, he explained will address significantly one of the eight pillars and the remaining seven will also run as one of this all important pillar. “The work of this Committee will go a very long way in supporting the national digital economic policy and strategy for the Federal Government because digital economy is strategically dominating the world economy today,” he said. According to him, members of the Committee were selected based on their competence, integrity and professionalism. “In all these, Nigeria comes first,” he said. Ms. Opeke who responded on behalf of the committee thanked the minister for the opportunity to serve and said the target of the committee is to achieve at least 65-70per cent broadband penetration across Nigeria in the next five years, adding that the objective is technology neutrality for the right purpose. “The Minister has set the goal and I am sure the NCC is in agreement. We will look at the work of the last Committee and what was done, the prospects, the challenges that are still there in order to come up with a plan to achieve the set objectives. ”I believe the objective is achievable with sincerity of purpose and with hard work for these are critical services and infrastructure that we need to bring to all Nigerians and we’re optimistic that we can accomplish that goal. There is work to be done on fixed infrastructure but the reality is mobile technologies are also progressing quite fast to deliver very capable services to people. ”We see what is going on with 5G all over the world, so we will address both at the Committee but I believe our objective is not to favour one technology over another  but to figure out how we can get those critical services to many more Nigerians. So, we’ll be a mix of technologies but the objective is not to favour one technology over another or to be prescriptive but the right technology for the right purpose, the most competitive technology that enables us deliver services to all Nigerians,” Opeke said. Earlier in his goodwill message, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar GarbaDanbatta said broadband infrastructure remains one of the top priority of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to ensure people around the world have access to equitable and affordable broadband, wherever they are and whatever the circumstances they are in. With adequate broadband infrastructure in place, Danbatta assured that everything else will fall into place. ”The ability to deliver healthcare, best quality education even to generations unborn, ability to streamline transportation, meet up with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the ability to transform the economy into a digital one,” he said. He pledged the commitment of the board and management of NCC, especially in the area of driving the infrastructure that will ensure that critical mass of ICT adoption in use will in time increase the level of broadband penetration in the country. Besides, Ms. Opeke, Gwandu and Maska, the 25-member Committee also has representatives from the academia, NCC, Galaxy Backbone, MTN , Google, NiRA, Defence Space Administration, National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Nigerian Communications Satellite Ltd (NIGCOMSAT), Association of Telecom Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), GSM Association among others.