There is growing absence of trade unions in new workplaces in Nigeria, as well as the replacement of fulltime workers with casual and outsourced employees in organised workplaces. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and its affiliates have renewed their anti-casualisation campaign, reports TOBA AGBOOLA  TRADE unions, especially affiliates of IndustriAll Global Union, have moved against the casaulisation of workers. They are promoting workers’rights, workplace conditions and the well-being of workers. Section 7 (1) of the Labour Act, Cap 198, Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1990, among others, provide: “Not later than three months after the beginning of a worker’s period of employment, the employer shall give to the worker a written statement specifying the terms and conditions of employment, which include the nature of the employment and if the contract is for a fixed term, the date and when the contract expires.’’ The Act forbids employment beyond three months without a letter. But in all sectors, this law is only obeyed in the breach by employers. In a statement, the unions noted: “Precarious work is non-standard employment that is poorly paid, insecure, unprotected and cannot support a household.’’ Speaking on the menace, the  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Comrade  Ayuba Wabba, said  workers can no longer offer their  serice to slave drivers whose only interest is profit maximisation. He said: “Our laws allow workers to exercise their freedom of association to belong to unions of their choice in line with the provision of International Labour Organisation (ILO) convention 87 and section 40 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Citing MTN, Wabba, who supervised the picketing  of MTN premises in Lagos, some months ago, described the firm as a bad employer. He said: “We warn offending employers that they should expect organised labour soon at their doorsteps as we will increase picketing  against such roguish entities. We will dare you! We shall win you!” The NLC chief alleged that many companies’ mangement have banned their workers from participating in unionism, and also paying them below national minimum wage and laying off staff members arbitrarily without benefits. Ayuba accused the country’s political leaders of not doing enough to create jobs that could reduce poverty. He lamented the inability of the ruling class to fashion out policies that could drive sustainable development. “The inability of the political class to tame unemployment has not only led to a steady rise in social vices, but also made the country to become one with many poor people,” he said. Human Capital Providers Association (HUCaPAN) President, Aderemi Adegboyega, said though agency work and outsourcing are legal, organisations must ensure ethical and fair labour practices. Adegboyega said HuCaPAN carried out joint inspection and made alliances with the central labour organisations to guarantee that workers in the employ of private agencies are engaged under decent work conditions with respect to payment of the minimum wage to the least person, granted freedom to associate, eligibility for pension and to work under conditions that are not injurious to health. On his part, the President, United Labour Congress (ULC), Joe Ajaero, fingered lawmakers and government for not being alive to their responsibilities. He said: “In such situations where you decide to allow illegality, you don’t regulate them when they picket. If workers are angry and they have been subjected to all manner of inhuman treatment over the years, when they protest, what you see is what you take.” Also, Petroleuym and Natural Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) General Secretary, Lumumba Okugbawa, said casualisation is a cankerworm that has eaten deep into the fabrics of the industry in particular. “Coupled with globalisation and the advent of information technology, the world has become a global village with shrinking workforce. Most managements have, therefore, keyed into this option to shortchange the average worker in order to maximise profit. Another reason is to deny them the right to be organised though we have a little improvement on this,” Okugbawa said.  He noted that in  specific terms, casual workers tend to be underpaid and are not entitled to any rights – or fringe benefits, be it transport, feeding, medical care allowances, no freedom to join or form unions, no pension, no leave, and several other denials. Also, in most cases, they are only paid for days worked, regardless of whether they took ill and other justifiable reasons for been absent from work. According to Okugbawa, the policy is  in practice, not only in the private sector but also in the public sector. “Though it is generally believed that the upsurge in precarious employment is the fallout of globalisation, but its practice in Nigeria is nothing but industrial slavery,” Okugbawa said, noting that in those days, the fear of NLC was the beginning of wisdom for many casual workers’ employers, especially in the manufacturing sector. However, affiliates of Congress who have been suffering the effects of casualisation and precarious employment, voiced out their frustration during the just concluded National Delegates’ Conference. According to the motion by the National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) and National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees (NUCFRLANMPE), the rising incidence of precarious work occasioned by the growing absence of trade unions in new workplaces and replacement of fulltime workers with casual and outsourced employees in organised workplaces is of very serious concern to us. They demanded that NLC should renew and reinvigorate its anti-casualisation campaign and deepen the fight against precarious work. Casual workers, also known as temporary staff, do not have access to professional development, internal promotions, retirement and other related benefits, no same pay compared to their permanent counterparts. In fact, casualisation is a form of involuntary servitude that is rooted in neo-liberal policies. Most broadcast media, including the public media preferred keeping casual staff for years, thereby denying them access to career progression and this has become an increasing trend within the sector.