The Pro-Chancellor of Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun State, Prof. Oye Ibidapo-Obe, has advised members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to comply with Federal Government’s directive to enrol into the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). Ibidapo-Obe spoke on Thursday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. The former University of Lagos (UNILAG) Vice Chancellor was reacting to the impasse between the union and the Federal Government on the directive for ASUU members to enrol into the new payroll system. “My view on the issue of IPPIS is that ASUU should comply with the Federal Government directive on enrolment because the adage says: ‘He who pays the piper dictates the tune’. “I don’t really understand the politics there because in private university, no one determines how the wages are paid; either through a bank or other means. “The issue of IPPIS is just like a driver that wants to determine the brand of car his employer should buy for him to drive. That will not be possible. I think ASUU should reconsider. “The university autonomy has been grossly eroded and if we still believe that there is autonomy in the university system, then we are just deceiving ourselves because there will be a total operation,” he said. Ibidapo-Obe recalled that payment of salaries during his time was a herculean task, saying the system could have been simplified through IPPIS. He said when he was UNILAG vice chancellor, the struggle was always on to get salaries paid. According to him, it was painful that the payment could not be as at when due. “Now, the Federal Government wants to take the burden off our shoulders. We should not restrict the move. “If the Federal Government wants to pay through IPPIS, we should allow it to pay the best way it can. It is reasonable enough. What ASUU needs to do is to iron out the grey areas. “The IPPIS is a software that can accommodate all the peculiarities of university system. So, what ASUU needs to do is to look at the way it can work things out,” he said.