Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, has said the board generated N20 billion from University and Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) between 2016 and 2019. Oloyede spoke on Thursday at a two-day meeting with Computer-Based Test (CBT) centre operators, state coordinators of the board, financial institutions and internet service providers in Zaria, Kaduna State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting, which was held at Kongo Conference Hotel of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), aimed at deliberating on issues affecting the board and the way forward.
Oloyede urged CBT centre operators not to worry about their investments while transacting business with the board, as long as they were doing their work in accordance with the agreed registration and examination guidelines. “You have nothing to fear and you should know that if you put your investments together, it can’t be up to N20 billion. We have accrued N20 billion in three years as an agency. “As an agency of government, we have to ensure that small and medium scale businesses thrive, and if you multiply 11 workers by 700, you will know better. “We are also adding value to the economy and job creation out of your employment market and we will continue to support you once you are doing your work well,” he said. Oloyede said the board also announced its readiness to deploy drone cameras to all the identified 700 examination centres to check any activity that could jeopardise the efforts of the board from being a transparent agency of government it has been known for. He said: “All closed-circuit television (CCTV) must be wired; all cameras must cover verification areas, coding areas, walkways, examination halls, server room and entrance and exit points in all centres. “We will use drones to monitor the centres to check registration and examination scandals.”
On the prosecution of those caught in the past, Oloyede said: “100 candidates caught red-handed are under prosecution; 20 (have been) jailed and 80 others are under investigation. “Last year was for the prosecution of candidates. By the grace of God, it is the turn of CBT centres to be prosecuted. If you do work well, it will reduce the cost of running from one court to the other,” he said. Also, Oloyede has said the board would no longer give the usual N100 million to its state offices.
The JAMB Registrar spoke at the opening of a two-day meeting with CBT centres, Technical Advisors, Service Providers, such as MTN, Airtel, Galaxy Backbone and other stakeholders. Oloyede said: “You may recollect that since 2016, we do give at least N100 million to state offices for one thing or the other. We want to tell you that this year, no kobo will be released for anybody for anything, because those who are running private CBC centres are making profit. “And if they can make profit, pay their salaries and doing other things, we are paying salaries of all workers. In addition, we still take care of offices through quarterly allocation. “We started last year to see how much you bring in. Henceforth, I will not go into government coffers to give you money. We can close down any centre that is not useful to us,” he said.