More good things will soon come to the Southeast, President Muhammadu Buhari said on Monday. He said his administration was committed to developing the region and bringing dividends of democracy to the people. The President debunked allegations of Southeast marginalisation. He spoke at Obiohia Uzoakoli in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State. It was during the commissioning and handing over of the first phase of gully erosion control and rehabilitation of the Agbozu, Umueze Amaba and Methodist Church Compound road projects. It was executed by the Ecological Fund Office of the Presidency. President Buhari was represented by the Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Uchechukwu Ogah. He said ongoing federal projects were a tip of the iceberg of what his administration has in mind for the Southeast. The President said his administration would never relegate the Southeast in the scheme of things. His words: “This project is one of the 19 ecological intervention projects for the first quarter of 2018 which was awarded by the Ecological Fund Office Tenders Board in July 2018. “It is expected to check flooding and gully erosion menace in the community and its environs. “The age-long problem of gully erosion and flooding in this part of the country cannot be overemphasised. “I have no doubts in my mind that this administration’s intervention will bring huge relief to this community, which has for a very long time been suppressed by these ecological challenges. “This project is a testimony to this administration’s promise that no part of the country will suffer any neglect owing to its geographical location or political consideration. “To further consolidate on the gains of this giant stride, the Federal Government’s execution of projects across the country also demonstrates the sincerity of purpose of the current administration towards entrenching justice, equity and fair play to all and sundry.” President Buhari assured the community that the second phase of the rehabilitation work would soon begin. Permanent Secretary Ecological Fund Office, the Presidency, Abuja, Dr Habiba Lawal, represented by Assistant Director Soil Erosion and Flooding, Ani Benjamin, an engineer, said more of such interventions will occur in the Southeast. He said: “This project was initiated through a request for an urgent intervention forwarded to Ecological Fund Office by Mrs Georgina Uhurial to arrest the continuous flooding and erosion menace and to avoid further environmental degradation, loss of lives and properties within the community and its environs. “The Commissioning and handing over of this project to the community is expected to achieve the dual purpose of enabling this community to take over and exercise ownership of the project, to ensure its maintenance and sustainability. “The resources which the Federal Government has committed to this project must not be allowed to waste.” A chieftaincy title was conferred on the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. He was given Ezi Enyi (worthy friend) of Uzoakoli. The Comptroller-General of Customs Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (rtd) got the title: Ota N’eche ndi ije (protector of travellers). The lawmaker representing Bende Federal Constituency, Ben Kalu, was named Omenkeahuruanya (He that does that which is seen). His Royal Majesty, Eze Kalu Ikonte, the Ozuo II of Uzoakoli Ancient Kingdom conferred them with the titles at the Obi Ukwu Uzoakoli.