  CONSIDERING the proximity of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s residence to the location reported to have been attacked by gunmen in his hometown, Otuoke, Bayelsa State, on December 24, it is not clear what their mission was. Some reports said the attackers had targeted Jonathan’s house, but were blocked by soldiers. Indeed, the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC), an ethnic organisation, notably alleged that “the attackers were out to assassinate the former President,” who is of Ijaw origin, stating that he “just left his house before the attack.” Jonathan was said to have left Otuoke for Yenagoa, the state capital, a few hours before the gunmen arrived. Jonathan’s relative, Wisdom Ikuli, was also quoted as saying “it was either an attempt to assassinate the former President or to rob the house.” The idea that the attackers were on a mission to kill Jonathan needs to be treated with seriousness. The suggestion that the attack was an assassination attempt seems far-fetched, and such a conclusion should be based on a thorough investigation. This is why the authorities must get to the bottom of the incident. The situation required a clarifying statement by Jonathan’s media adviser, Ikechukwu Eze, who explained that the gunmen had attacked a security post “located about 100 metres away from” Jonathan’s Otuoke residence. The attackers came in about five motorboats around 1:30am, he said. “They attempted to take away a gunboat belonging to the military stationed at the creek beside the residence. They were, however, resisted by gallant soldiers who engaged them in a firefight.” Tragically, a soldier was killed, and another was injured. Three of the attackers were said to have been killed. It is unclear why the attackers chose to attack a security post where soldiers were stationed, which suggests they were ready to risk their lives. It is a credit to the troops at the security post that they were able to foil the attackers. President Muhammadu Buhari’s prompt phone call to Jonathan to reassure him that he could count on the Federal Government for protection is commendable. That reassurance should apply to all citizens. Unfortunately, the Otuoke incident further highlighted escalating insecurity in the country. President Buhari should be concerned that the attack happened so close to his predecessor’s country home, and reportedly involved Jonathan’s house, which shows that powerful people could also be victims of insecurity.  It is intriguing that the attackers were said to have tried to take away a military gunboat. What did they need the gunboat for? This is how weapons get into the wrong hands, which contributes to the climate of insecurity. In the context of militancy in the Niger Delta region where the state is located, the attempt to steal the gunboat may well be a sign that the militants are alive and well. The gunboat may be useful to others engaged in unlawful activities. The point is that the move to steal the gunboat reflected evil intentions. The response of the military Joint Task Force (JTF), Operation Delta Safe (ODS), to the attack is reassuring. Its spokesman said the task force was determined to “identify the persons or groups behind the attack,” and asked the people to go about their lawful businesses while the task force focused on security of lives and properties. It is noteworthy that Operation Delta Safe was launched to “to rid Niger Delta of all criminal acts of militancy and kidnappings.” The Otuoke attack shows that there is a need to tighten security, not only in the locality but also in the volatile Niger Delta. However, beyond regional security, the Federal Government should take measures to ensure that there is nationwide security.