 A large number of students of the Lagos State University (LASU) came out on Monday for the candlelight in honour of their slain colleague, Favour Sewanu Daley-Oladele. The 22-year-old final year student was lured by his 23-year-old boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi to a Cherubim & Seraphim Church at Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State where she was murdered and part of her organs were removed for a ‘get-rich-quick’ money-making concoction. A LASU student, Dele Alli had earlier urged fellow students via his twitter handle to turn out for the candlelight. Also, a hashtag, #justiceForFavour has been created to seek justice for the slain thespian. The mourning students, decked in black attires, converged on the Department of Theatre Arts and Music to honour their departed colleague. From there, they moved round the campus, singing in a dirge. Some of them were in tears. They called on LASU authorities and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu as well as Inspector-General of Police to ensure speedy trial of the perpetrators. While that was ongoing, other students and social media users took to Twitter to condemn the act. They warned the government not to sweep the matter under the carpet. Ponle Olafimihan said: “Now the perpetrators are boasting that they’ll soon be released by the police. These cannibals shouldn’t go unpunished.” OMO BABA said a case like this should be dealt with seriously. “How can you murder a human being like you in cold blood,” he wondered. The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Southwest (Zone D) promised to follow the matter to a logical conclusion and “update the general public on our actions and findings in due time.” A tweet by its Coordinator, Comrade Kappo Samuel Olawale said an injury to one is an injury to all! “We will not keep quiet in this case of pure cruelty. The culprits must be brought to book and made to face the wrath of the law. We will stand till the very end to ensure justice is gotten for Favour,” Olawale said. Ganiu Oloruntade said the gruesome murder of this young lady must not be swept under the carpet. Modupe Ademola pleaded with you all LASU management and Governor Sanwo-Olu to ensure justice for Favour takes place. A group, LASU PRs & Influencers said: “The federation who understands the importance of life and justice should use their position to demand justice for Favour. Favour was said to be pregnant at the time of this incident. Please Let’s fight for #JusticeForFavour and spread the news.” Gracie’s Goddess said she and the late Miss Daley-Oladele wrote senior West African Examination Council (WAEC) in the same school. “Favour when I saw it, I didn’t believe it was you till I saw your name we wrote senior WAEC in the same secondary school. I just pray those individuals involved get punished,” she wrote on Twitter. A social media influencer @RUCCIFIED wrote: “This life is already sad and hard; why then make it sadder and harder for another family at this time? “How much fearless could one be that gives you gut to behead a fellow human, disembark the body parts, beat to a mortal and then feed on it? “We truly hope that the @LASUOfficial together with the @lagosstategov and other states and federal law agencies against brutality and evil practices as such above would lend a voice and take action to ensure that the culprits are brought to book.”