When social, political and domestic violence congregate to batter the woman, the strength of the nation is weakened and severely compromised. Dear reader, we have always tried to draw attention to the fact that women too are entitled to a life well lived. This means that women should be helped to be free of the abnormal burden of carrying the home, children, husband and societies’ responsibilities. Did the men take any notice of this whining? No sir, not so much as a grunt. Nevertheless, we must plod on, for the world set aside November 25 as the day for the elimination of violence against women. For, sometimes, it does appear to me that the world has taken violence against women so much for granted it has become part of the (ab)normal run of things. Take the streets for instance. On the streets, the women are open to all kinds of abuses – from men, sun, rain, stars, and all. The men rape them; the sun beats down on them; the rain drenches them; and the stars … Oh yes, the stars can contribute to their plight too. Just try moving around by the light of the stars. On the more serious note, the violence that women suffer during war times is a shameful slap against the faces of men. Indeed, this war weapon is so dreadful that I believe it sinks the war leader who sanctions it below the mud that is beneath his soldiers’ boots. But that is not all. The society that throws its women into the teeth of war is done, all done. First, there is this abnormal rise in rape cases. Right now, this heinous violence against women is being perpetrated against women of all ages and in all social groups. Naturally, each case that is reported signals the mental and social depravity of the men in our midst, and that should give us cause for concern. Believe me, the society that permits the continuance of this violence against women has gone to the dogs. And men in the position to do so who do not decry it should not raise their heads. Then, there is the all-time great, domestic violence. This is such a constant in so many women’s lives that it just does not bear mentioning. To begin with, one great violence against womanhood is managing the home on little or no funds at all. But, don’t get me wrong. In many cases, the fault is with the men who probably do not realise that depriving the home of sufficient funds is some kind of violence. I blame them because with such men, their cars, motor cycles and bicycles are more important. In many other cases, there are men who do try their best and give as much as they can. They have little and they give little. No problem there as long as they give it in love, peace and harmony. Truly, they are not to blame. Rather, in such cases, I poke my stubby little digits in the eyes of the government leaders who are not creating the enabling environment for people to do honest work for honest pay. I have always said that if the focus of any governance is not directed at the betterment of the average home which does not consist of little greedy mouths and fingers, then that government is lost. If governance does not begin the day’s business with the price list of the country’s foodstuff perpetually behind its decisions, then I make bold to say that that is not governance, to use the famous cliché. So yes, insufficient funds in the home can be serious violence against women. Ah yes, there is also physical abuse. Now, that is a difficult one to track, for physical violence against anyone or thing is simply the loss of governance of the central controls of one’s corporate being. Seriously, raising one’s hands against anyone or anything should be a serious call for help, not by the victim but by the assailant. It is the assailant who is really crying, ‘Help me, I can no longer govern my senses. I deserve to be put on the funny farm.’ Unfortunately, the level at which this kind of abuse goes on in this country (oh yes, and the world too) is incredibly high, and sadly, with no governmental interference around here. This is why women are getting beheaded (as happened recently somewhere in a south western state over an argument) or simply killed. Yeah well, what’s the difference?! Really, these gory conclusions are exactly that, conclusions to acts that often begin with what you would tag ‘ordinary beating’. I have heard a woman tell another woman to take heart; all that her husband did to her was just to beat her. In other words, he has not yet killed her. Oh people! Where are the laws against domestic abuse? When can a woman in Nigeria walk up to a police station and report that her husband beat her and the police would not bend down behind the counter and laugh their heads off but would march up indignantly to the said batterer, jab at his chest with some hefty fingers and ask him to try them (the police) for size? When, eh, when? Meanwhile, the women continue to suffer violence, like the kingdom of God. People, these episodes of sufferance call for definitive action, on everyone’s part. Let us start with the government. When a nation’s focus is forever turned on asking, praying and even craving for even mildly tolerable leadership, no worthwhile achievements can be made. Social structures suffer, the very atmosphere is puddled, and the homes bear the brunt. When we say home, we mean women. The burden of the absence of good governance in Nigeria, I tell you, is being borne by women. It is the women who stand between the children and starvation; between the children and insane activities such as playing with guns and killing each other in the home (as happened recently too somewhere in the southeast) and between God and men. Oh yes, it’s the women preventing God from punishing men for what they have done to this country. Anyway, the government has got to take governance a little more seriously. Everyone knows that the strength of a nation is in the health of the family. The strength of the family in turn rests in the health of the home and the home is a good woman’s focus. Therefore, the strength of the nation is in the well-being of her women. However, when social, political and domestic violence congregate to batter the woman, the strength of the nation is weakened and severely compromised. Good governance must be ensured by all means to end violence against, and strengthen, the women. I think the time has come to strengthen the legal actions made against domestic violence. Obviously, women are not made of the same physically stern stuff as the men are, so why kit them out in the same boxing gloves? When a woman is regularly battered, it is natural that she would either grow a thick skin against it or don gloves. I know, you and I have seen women boxers on the screen, but I tell you, they look downright ugly there. Those gloves look most unnatural on them. The women are putting their bodies to unnatural uses and I intend to tell that to the World Boxing Federation, just as soon as I am done here. Besides, they provide nothing but merriment for the men. In clearer words, they make the men laugh. No, bring sterner laws against domestic violence and you’ll see changes. Headaches will disappear, peace and respect will come in, and the joy of the birds, bees and flowers will follow. Happy Women’s Day once again!  *** Adapted from when first published 10th March, 2013. 