 Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has emphasised the need for Nigerians  to take acquiring technical skills seriously, as such would help lift the economy. He spoke at a seminar organised by members of Lagos State chapter of Motormechs and Technicians Association of Nigeria (MOMTAN) in Ikeja, Lagos with the theme: “Reducing Road Crashes In Nigeria By Guiding Against Substandard Spare Parts And Lubricants In Preparation For The Year 2020.’’ Osinbajo, who was the chairman of the occasion, was represented at the event by his Senior Special Adviser on technical, OLawumi Gasper. He advised the technicians to try as much as possible and impact technical knowledge to their children. He said: “I am an advocate of skills. We should encourage our children to come back and grow our businesses. That is the significant of education. We should also make good use of the cellphone to search for knowledge”. Also speaking at the event, Director General of the National Automotive Design and Development Counci (NADDC), Jelani Aliyu commended MOMTAM for putting up the important event, stating that the discourse on the issue of substandard spare parts and lubricants is very germane to the industry. Chairman, Lagos State chapter of MOMTAN, Morufu Arowolo said the seminar is a special summon to all the concerned dignitaries and patriotic minds, who have the positive conscience that our great country Nigeria have numerous potentials. The chairman said “with positive initiatives and determination of our association: MOMTAN, we have started have started viable race with all of us present here today. I am emphasizing that substandard spare parts rear its ugly head with the active connivance of some foreign quack manufacturer with selfish interest to drain our hard earned currency to their pocket”. Arowolo appealed to well-meaning Nigerians, legislators in the National Assembly, the judiciary, law enforcement agencies, SON, Council of Registered Engineers (COREN) and others to team up and jointly save Nigerian motorists from the supply of substandard spare parts and lubricants.