 Fourteen-year old Ademuwa Ifeoluwa of Chrisfield College, Ikorodu spent one day as the CEO of MTN Nigeria after emerging winner of the maiden Lagos State Private Schools Spelling Bee Competition sponsored by MTN Nigeria. He was announced winner following five months of fast-paced competition which attracted participation from 70 secondary schools in the state. Ademuwa spent the day at the company’s headquarters in Ikoyi, Lagos receiving dignitaries for a 5G demonstration.  He also received the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Folasade Jaji; and the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu among others. The teenager old told The Nation he wants to study medicine to prevent avoidable deaths like that of his father. “I want to be a doctor because of what happened to my dad. I want to save people so that they don’t have to go through the pain,” said Ademuwa. He said his father was diagnosed with high blood pressure and lost his life to what he attributed to “Lack of Knowledge”. Acting as CEO was a wonderful experience for Ademuwa – one that he did not expect as a reward of winning the competiton. “I have had other competitions.  I came out third in Mike Okonkwo’s essay competition. I did not know that the CEO for a day would be this massive. The Chief Human Resources officer greeted me outside! I have been sharing and swapping ideas with Mazen, the Chief Operating Officer. Since, I stepped in here it has been an amazing time.  I am not sure how to thank MTN. This has been an unbelievable experience,” he said. “I advise other students like me to work hard, study, be diligent, push forward, do not be certified with their present position”, said Ademuwa. Ademuwa was presented with a cash prize of N500,000, customized bags and other items at the event. In his remarks, Chief Marketing Officer, MTN Nigeria Rahul De, said giving young ones the CEO experience was aimed at preparing them for similar roles in the future. “The one-day CEO experience will open the winner and his peers to an aspect of life that is interesting. I believe the process will enhance their overall development. We are glad to be part of this, which further affirms our commitment to equipping young Nigerians,” he said.