 The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, on Friday, urged the Federal and state governments to prioritize massive investment, in the area of health and education, in order to prevent the country from sink into the state of penury, as predicted by the latest World Bank report on Nigeria. The Emir was speaking yesterday in his palace when he hosted a delegation from the National Primary Health care Development Agency, who came to present Dr Laila Umar Ibrahim to the Emir for winning  the 2018 Prof. Umar Shehu annual award of excellence of the agency. “Two days ago, I read a report in Bloomberg, a latest World Bank report on Nigeria, which was issued on Monday. The World Bank has predicted that if things continue the way they are, within the next 10 years, Nigeria will be home to 25 per cent of all the poor people of the world,” he said. Furthermore, the Emir, said the report indicated that in 10 years’ time, if nothing is done to reverse the trend, the number of poor people in the country will be increased by 30 million, adding that poverty is not just measured in terms of money but in terms of lack of access to quality education, access to quality healthcare, infant and maternal mortality, as well as lack of nutrition. “And the best way to end poverty is to invest in health and education. So, we are calling on the Federal Government, state governments to continue to allocate more and more of the budget to these areas. I am also calling on the private sector and philanthropists to invest in these areas, because this is the only way we can avert crisis,” he said. Emir Sanusi, thanked the management and staff of NPHCDA for honoring Dr Laila, with the award, which he said will serve as a great impetus for more dedication to service and spur other members of staff to do more, while calling on other agencies to emulate the gesture. Earlier in his address, the Executive Director of NPHCDA, Dr Faisal Shu’aib, explained that the annual award is in recognition of the sterling qualities of their members of staff, as well as used the opportunity to thank the community that raised such a staff. He said, the award, includes, hospital equipment and medicines, estimated at millions of naira, supplied to one of the primary healthcare centres , selected  by the recipient of the award. 