Oseheye Okwuofu, Ibadan The Management of the Polytechnic, Ibadan on Wednesday read the riot act against any lecturer or any member of staff found in the habit of demanding sex for marks in the institution henceforth. The management warned that any lecturer of the institution found demanding sex for marks in the institution will be sacked summarily after been made to face the standing committee to handle such offences. It charged students who had previously fallen victim, to feel free to come forward to report any erring lecturer found to be engaged in the shameful act. The institution said there are measures in place, standing disciplinary committees, to punish any lecturer found guilty of any offence capable of tarnishing the image of the institution. The Deputy Rector of the institution, Mrs Abiodun Olubunmi Olubamiwa who stated this at a press conference heralding the 34th convocation of the institution held at administrative block of the institution said there is a staff disciplinary and students’ disciplinary committees to sanction anyone found guilty of sex scandal. According to her, the achievements of the institution in recent time had outshined the challenges facing the school, and praised prompt intervention of the state government, unlike in the past. She said; “like you have rightly said, there are challenges in every organisation but our prayer is that our right hand should be greater than our left hand that means our achievement should be greater than our challenges. “I will like to say, in the current dispensation, most of our challenges have been addressed by the government of the day. A number of the moribund facilities have been resuscitated. “On the issue of sex for marks, no culprit will go unpunished. In this institution, we are not used to covering any misdeeds. “Anybody found guilty of such will be sacked. The students are free to report any of such allegations to the management and action will be taken against such person immediately,” she said. The Deputy Rector also related that ten undergraduate students of the institution have been given scholarship award for their studies at the institution due to their outstanding performance at the Nigeria Polytechnic Games, (NIPOGA). Olubamiwa said those who were rewarded for their outstanding performance at the recent zonal NIPOGA games, held at the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo in Ondo State participated in games like tennis, baseball, scrabbles, chess, hockey and other games. She said the management and the Rector of the institution; Professor Kazeem Adekunle Adebiyi approved the scholarship to motivate students and staff in the area of sporting activities. According to her, the gesture was to prove that the institution does not only reward academic excellent alone but also gives full recognition to students that shine in the other field such as sports. She said; “The management of the institution gave full support to sporting activities for both students and staff. The institution participated in zonal NIPOGA games which was held at Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo ondo state between 19th and 25th October, 2019 and the students won twenty five (25) gold medals in the various sporting activities such as tennis, baseball, scrabbles, chess, hockey and other games. “In recognition of these landmark achievements, the management of the institution under the leadership of Prof. Kazeem Adekunle Adebiyi had graciously approved scholarship for ten (10) student’s athletes that excelled in the above mentioned competition. “This act proves that The Polytechnic, Ibadan does not only reward academic excellent but gives full recognition to students that shine in the other field such as sports.”