The Nigerian Army has re-built the pedestrian bridge linking students’ hostels to lecture halls at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, Bauchi Sate, which collapsed In August, killing four students. The new bridge which can carry 60 tons of weight was promised by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Tukur Buratai, shortly after the tragedy. But before the bridge’s collapse four months ago is eclipsed by the good news of its replacement by army engineers, we find the death of the students from the collapse of the bridge unfortunate. It could have been avoided in a context of adequate strategic governance and attention to physical infrastructure on the campus. Undoubtedly, the bridge must have been giving signs of increasing weakness long before it collapsed under the weight of the students. We urge managers of the university and similar institutions to pay adequate attention to the structures on their premises. Such vigilance is part of the stuff of which good leadership is made. However, we commend the army’s engineers for quick intervention and speedy fulfillment of a promise that could have fallen through the cracks of military bureaucracy. The appreciation of the work of the engineers by the vice-chancellor: “In all sympathy and condolences we received, one organisation took its demonstration of love one step further. In all our wildest imagination, nobody in this community ever thought that practical help would come from the Nigerian Army” underscores the importance of what looks like a new perception or face of the Nigerian Army. This is a good face for the military to have and sustain amongst citizens. Such instance of corporate social responsibility should not be restricted to the army but extended to all parts of the armed forces.  Occasional intervention by the army in civic projects in not new. The army’s corps of engineers participated in building roads in Osun State during the administration of Chief Bisi Akande in the early 2000s. And the roads were hailed then as good and less expensive than similar roads given to contractors by the Federal Government at that time. Encouraging the armed forces to participate in adding value to the life of citizens in various sectors, especially in peace time, is growing globally. For example, the Egyptian military functions like a business conglomerate that engages in production of all manner of goods and services. Similarly, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers engages in many forms of assistance to citizens’ life, beyond protecting them from foreign attacks. For example, United States’ engineers have a long tradition of participating in several projects of environmental restoration and rehabilitation of structures in response to natural disasters. We thus find it encouraging that the Nigerian Army has chosen to bring smiles to the faces of students of Tafawa Balewa University, after three months of mourning on the campus over the fatal dilapidation of a bridge. We once more congratulate military engineers for choosing to use their time and resources to bring succour to communities that direly need assistance. We believe that such intervention should continue to be a part of the culture of all sectors of the military, especially when there are no wars to fight. We commend the army for the timely completion of the bridge at a time that the army is also facing challenges from Boko Haram terrorists. We urge all sectors of the Nigerian Armed Forces to build on the example of bridge reconstruction and replacement at Tafawa Balewa University and extend such grace to other institutions across the country, as and when such need arises. 