The basic education sub-sector has 277,537 teachers deficit, the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has said. The commission noted that there is a deficit of 135,319 teachers at the Early Childhood Care Development Education, 139,772 in primary schools and 2,446 in Junior Secondary Schools nationwide. UBEC noted that there were 27.8 million learners enrolled in primary schools, 22,384,755 in public primary schools and 5,504,632 in private schools. The commission stated these in the 2018 National Personnel Audit (NPA) report unveiled by President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday in Abuja. The report was conducted in public and private schools by UBEC with efforts from other stakeholders. The document showed that Nigeria has 10, 193, 918 kids that are out – of school. Buhari urged governors to take necessary actions to ensure improved access, equity and quality in education delivery in their states. The President, who was represented by the Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, noted that urgent action was necessary to close the gaps identified in the report and also to find lasting solutions to the problems of education in the country. The President said the government will ensure that all Nigerian children are given equal opportunity to complete basic education. He urged state governments to critically examine the findings or recommendations contained in the report that affect their states. Buhari said: “I am sure the report has revealed some gaps that need to be filled at various levels of government in other to improve basic education delivery in our country. “I therefore urge state governments to critically examine the findings or recommendations contained in this report that affect their states and take necessary actions to ensure improve access, equity and quality in education delivery. “States with very high deficiencies in teachers and infrastructure facilities need to redouble their effort to close these gaps.” The President said the report was key to the realisation of the Ministerial Strategic Plan (MSP) because everything ultimately depended on it. He added that the Federal Ministry of Education would critically examine the findings and recommendations contained in the report and come up with policies and actions that would help move the sector forward. He said the Federal Government has disbursed over N153 billion to state governments in the last four years for the implementation of Universal Basic Education (UBE) in the country. Buhari added that N173bn was released to UBEC between 2015 till date as matching grants for the development of the basic education sub-sector. He noted that initiatives and interventions in the education sector were borne out of the belief in the centrality of education for social, political, economic transformation of the country. World Bank Education Specialist, Dr Tunde Adekola, said the report would help to improve education delivery in the country. Adekola pledged World Bank readiness to continue to work with the government to improve on equitable access.