The police in Lagos have arrested a 44-year-old guard, Rohis Adamu, for allegedly killing his boss, Mutiu Agbosasa, on Sunday. Employed barely eight weeks before the alleged murder, Adamu, the police said, ran to Ijede Police Station around 2:30am on Sunday and said his boss, Agbosasa, asked him to call the police. But on getting to the house on Ginti Estate, Ijede in Ikorodu, detectives found Agbosasa burnt beyond recognition inside his vehicle, police spokesman Bala Elkana said in a statement yesterday. He said when Adamu was questioned, he said that four people invaded the house around 10:30pm on Saturday when he opened the gate for his boss. “But Adamu said he did not inform neighbours or nearby security men to seek help.” Elkana said: “Police Commissioner CP Hakeem Odumosu has ordered investigation into the death of Mutiu Agbosasa of Ginti Estate, Ijede, Ikorodu. On December 15, at about 2:30am, Rohis Adamu, a security guard working with Mutiu Agbosasa, reported at Ijede Police Station that his boss sent him to call the police. “A team of policemen led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) rushed to the scene. Police found the body of the victim in his vehicle burnt beyond recognition. “The crime scene was cordoned off for forensic examination. Homicide detectives and forensic experts from the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) were deployed in the scene for analysis. The body of the deceased was evacuated to hospital for autopsy. “The guard was detained for questioning. In his statement, he said that on December 14, at about 10:30pm, he opened the gate for his boss to drive into the house and while closing the gate, four strange men entered the house through the pedestrian gate. “That he heard his boss shouting that he should run and call the police. That it did not occur to him to call neighbouring guards for help. “Investigation is ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding his death and identify those behind the gruesome murder. Security has been beefed up in the estate.”