Students in secondary schools and colleges are being exposed to hi-tech brain teaser technology to deepen their knowledge and broaden their horizon. GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports  Nigerian Tulip International Colleges recently hosted the third edition of the World Scholars Cup in Nigeria. The events held in Abuja November 23-24 and replicated in Kaduna from November 26-27. Over 600 students from 22 secondary schools across the country participated in the events which took place at the Nigerian Tulip International Colleges and Nile University of Nigeria’s Auditorium in Abuja. The one in Kaduna took place at the NTIC Kaduna and the Kaduna State University Hall. The World Scholars Cup is a global academic event that brings students from different nationalities and countries together to address a common challenge which features four exciting events – Team Debate, Scholar’s Challenge, Collaborative Writing, and Scholar’s Bowl. The schools that participated included six NTIC branches across Nigeria, Intelligent Quotient Academy, Aduvie International School, Funtaj International School, Raberto Schools, ICICE Al-Al-Noor Academy, Deo Gratias International Group of Schools, Stella Maris School, KIA Lakeside Academy, and SASCON International School all in Abuja. While at Kaduna, Emerald Hills Academy, Air Force Comprehensive School, Command Secondary School, and Faith Academy participated. In the Abuja and Kaduna rounds, students explored the theme – A World on the Margins. They worked in teams of threes to explore unsolved mysteries, neglected histories, on the edge of society, enabling technologies, louder than words and voices from the margins. In the team debate session, each team debated three times on motions across all the subjects, from policy to poetry. Collaborative writing was also a very valuable experience for them as each team debated with the power of their pen. Individual teams were given six statements, each from a different subject area, and asked to choose one to argue for or against. Scholars Challenge added a new flavour to the way students approach multiple-choice questions. Each team was given multiple-choice questions to tackle but with an alpaca-powered twist as participants were allowed to mark more than one answer per question but with grading conditions.  The climax of the event at the Abuja and Kaduna rounds was the Scholars Bowl. Every team was in the theatre with a clicker. Teams were made to work together to solve analytic questions and multimedia challenges. It was loud and strategic as students clicked their answers before time ran out. Nigeria’s third edition of World Scholars Cup hosted by Nigerian Tulip International Colleges was a huge success and a remarkable experience for students, teachers, parents and other spectators alike. The performance of the NTIC students was remarkably outstanding at the competition as many of them went home with several trophies and medals. Qualified teams have been invited for the global rounds, which will take place in six different cities in six countries. Qualified teams can go to any of these countries. The cities and countries are Muscat in Oman, Vancouver in Canada, Prague in the Czech Republic, Melbourne in Australia, Phnom Penh in Cambodia and Johannesburg in South Africa. The organisers said students that qualify in the global rounds will be invited to Tournament of Champions at the Yale University in the United States of America. 