Kelvin Osa Okunbor The Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Captain Hamisu Yadudu has urged staff of the authority to use the outgoing year to evaluate their activities as they prepare for the challenges ahead. Speaking at this year’s Children’s Forum/Quiz competition for FAAN staff children in Lagos, Captain Yadudu said the yuletide season was a time to appreciate the Almighty God for sparing their lives through the year. Yadudu represented by the General Manager, Corporate Affairs FAAN, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu said festive periods were beyond dinning and wining but time to connect share and extend love. He noted that this year’s ceremony was unique because its organisers factored into it quiz competition. He said: “As you all know, every situation in life comes with opportunities to learn new things and I want to assure you all that you will learn a few things in the course of today’s event”. Captain Yadudu charged the children to be attentive, open-minded, relax as they embark on the activities. “As it is often said that everything under the surface of the Earth has it’s time and season, this is the season for you children to unwind and celebrate after a year of intensive academic pursuit”. The FAAN helmsman applauded the entire Management and staff of the Authority for their commitment and passion towards ensuring that the children have a memorable yuletide celebration. “We say a big thank you to you all for putting all of these together. We thank God for His goodness and blessings in the outgoing year; I wish you all a Merry Christmas and a prosperous year. Chairman of the committee and General Manager, Welfare and Management Services, Sanni Jimoh in an interview said, the event was organized by the Management to help the children socialize and interact. “This year’s pattern is a bit different from last year, last year there was no quiz, we just felt it should not be eating and dancing alone, we should test their mental capability to align them with where their parents work so that they can get familiar with aviation, from here they can develop their interest”.