 Shareholders back African Alliance’s recapitalisation plan. Shareholders of African Alliance have thrown their weight behind the board and management of the company in their ongoing quest to reposition the firm and fully recapitalise it before the deadline set by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). At the 50th Annual General Meeting of the company in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, shareholders expressed supports for the company’s recapitalisation plan. Chairman, African Alliance, Dr Anthony Okocha, explained that the company’s recapitalisation plan involves a combination of strategies including new equity injection by existing and new investors, assets conversion as well as possible merger. He commended shareholders for their continuous faith in the business over the years noting that despite the odds, the firm is rapidly on the path to prosperity as evidenced by the improvements in the financial statement. “There is no doubt we are on the rise again, considering where we were before now. In the period under review, our profit after tax decreased from a loss of N6.72b in 2017 to a loss of N2.4bn in 2018. It is important to note that the bulk of these year-on-year losses were technical arising from the drop in interest rates which significantly affected the returns on annuity assets that accounted for 96% of the company’s business portfolio. By the time the 2019 results are released, you would see how your company has turned the bend,” Okocha said. Managing Director, African Alliance, Funmi Omo, highlighted the major changes the business has undergone as part of its repositioning for growth. According to her, there has been an aggressive effort towards improving its brand visibility and it has opted to explore the power of technology through digital marketing. Our recent rebranding is a major part of this process and we are already reaping the gains of that exercise. We have also introduced new products to balance our portfolio and cushion the effect of the accumulated losses the decision on annuity brought on the business while a comprehensive training and retraining plan is being executed in line with the corporate goal to prioritise capacity building and reposition the business to attract the best talents,” Omo said. She noted that within the last two years, skilled and experienced personnel have been employed to bolster the company’s online presence, optimise its website and build a more interactive call centre. “I dare say we have the most engaging online presence in the industry,” Omo said. Recall that recently, African Alliance was rated Bb+ with a ‘stable outlook’ by foremost financial ratings agency in Nigeria, Agusto & co. A publicly quoted life insurance company incorporated in 1960, African Alliance operates out of the corporate headquarters in Ikoyi, Lagos, as well as in 18 branches nationwide.