The festive season comes with its peculiar challenge for Onitsha residents, especially those living around the Niger Bridge. They are already experiencing nerve-wracking traffic congestion writes EMMA ELEKWA  The Niger Bridge, which is the gateway to Southeastern states from other parts of the country, is known for its notorious traffic jam each Christmas season. Despite frantic efforts by the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and other agencies to ensure free flow traffic, there appears not to be a remedy to the nightmare.  The FRSC, in particular, has demonstrated some level of commitment towards tackling the gridlock in the state, particularly on the bridge. State Sector Commander, Mr Andrew Kumapayi, had said the Corps would pitch camp near the Niger Bridgehead in Onitsha and other gridlock spots in the state to tackle traffic challenges during the season. Speaking at the launch of “Operation No Wawawa On The Road”, by management of 93.7 Wazobia FM, Onitsha, Kumapayi said no fewer than 600 FRSC officials would be on the Onitsha Bridgehead and other flash points in the commercial city. He said: “The camps are to be manned 24 hours by our men, who would be drawn from the various unit commands, so that we won’t overburden those in Onitsha. “We in the FRSC are set to ensure safety on the highway. We are synergising with other relevant stakeholders to ensure there is ease of movement before, during and after the festive season.” In spite of these assurances, the traffic congestion has continued to constitute serious challenge to the motoring public. Right from Upper Iweka axis through the bridge to the other side of Asaba axis, traffic is a nightmare. One can spend hours on a spot while attempting to navigate either sides. Those who spoke to The Nation could not hide their feelings as they expressed dissatisfaction over the scourge. They called on traffic agencies in the state to intensify efforts towards easing the daily traffic on the bridge. They also appealed to the Federal Government to expedite action on the second Niger Bridge to alleviate the plight of motorists. A commercial bus driver, Sir Don Leo, blamed activities of touts for the intractable traffic on the bridge. He alleged that the touts stop heavy duty vehicles indiscriminately to extort money from them. He called on security agents to rid the highway, particularly along the bridge head axis, of such people to guarantee free flow of traffic. Mr. Cyril Onyemuche, a banker, said the daily traffic is not unconnected with the increase in volume of vehicles and persons into the region for various programmes and activities. He said: “One thing that characterises this period is the high volume of vehicular movements plying the road. “This is a period people of the state in particular prefer to return home to celebrate the season and other festivals with their family and loved ones.” A trader at the Bridge Head market, Mr. Chijioke Okezie, regretted the increasing nature of the traffic on daily basis, blaming it on indiscipline on the part of the commercial bus drivers who shuttle from Nkpor to Bridge head. “The traffic appears compounded each day. The commercial bus drivers who shuttle from Nkpor to Bridge head are not helping matters.  “The manners in which they make indiscriminate U-turn at the Uga junction axis of the Enugu Onitsha express way contribute to blocking one part of the road,” he said. A baker, Mrs. Chidimma Okereke, on her part, said pedestrians are not left out in the quagmire as they find it extremely difficult to navigate their way through the bridge. “Commercial motorcycles, tricycles and other vehicles occupy every available space thereby making it difficult for pedestrians to use the bridge. “Commercial motorcyclists are, however, recording a boost, as they collect between N500 to N1,000 to convey people across the Niger bridge while Asaba bus drivers charge between three to five hundred naira,” she added. Meanwhile, traffic management agencies in the state have evolved proactive strategies to forestall incidences of gridlock on roads in the state towards ensuring free vehicular flow during the festive season. The agencies affirmed their preparedness to overcome all forms of challenges that hinder their operations and called on motorists to complement their effort by strictly observing traffic rules and regulations. Rising from a joint meeting convened by Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Christian Madubuko, with the leadership of Traffic Management Agencies operating in the state, they resolved to offer motorists the best practices. The agencies were Anambra Traffic Management Agency (ATMA); Onitsha North Traffic Authority (ONTA); Willie Work Force (WWF) and Idemili North Traffic Decongestion Authority (INTDA). Madubuko urged the stakeholders to be more committed than they had been in service delivery as we expect influx of vehicular movements this Christmas period. Declaring his readiness to personally supervise their operations across the state, the commissioner said government would construct directional signs on roads to facilitate easy vehicular control in junctions and roundabouts. He added that government would ensure that challenges associated with traffic control lights configuration recently installed were tackled for optimal performance. He said: “We will also provide more traffic cones and other facilities needed to check reckless driving, especially in gridlock flashpoints. “We will provide utility vehicles and tow trucks to assist in this exercise.” On his part, ATMA Managing Director, Mr Pat Obiefuna, pledged his outfit’s readiness to work with other sister agencies to achieve desired results. He described the meeting as timely and called for it to be regular to enable them serve road users better. Director of State Operations, ATMA, Mr Chike Ezenduka, disclosed that the agency has recruited and deployed more personnel in designated traffic gridlock prone points across the state. Representatives of ONTA, Mr Afam Iweanya, INTDA, Chuma Udoezika and WWF, Obinna Ajaegbu, pledged to mobilise their officers to ensure hitch-free exercise, especially in Onitsha and environs.