Former Eagles midfielder Henry Nwosu has backed Senegalese striker Sadio Mane to scoop the 2019 Africa Player of the Year award ahead of his Liverpool’s teammate Mohammed Sallah and Manchester City winger, Riyadh Mahrez. The Confederation of African Football (CAF) on Sunday pruned down its shortlist of all categories to just the Top three contenders leaving out Nigerian duo of Wilfred Ndidi, Odion Ighalo for the prestigious award. Nwosu told NationSport that though Salah and Mane along with Pierre Emerick Aubameyang emerged as the joint highest scorer in the EPL last season, Mane has had an exceptional year than his Liverpool teammate. He noted that besides the titles the Senegalese had won with Liverpool, he was also brilliant at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt where he led the Teranga Lions to the final of the competition before losing narrowly to Algeria. “I will say that Mane has had a good year for club and country and we can’t say the same for the other two players that are in contention with him,” Nwosu stated. “He has been a good team player for Liverpool and Senegal and his involvement in the most important moments of both teams showed that he is always relied on by them. The amount of goals he has scored two as a winger is also exceptional. “I believe Mane will nick it this time after he has played second fiddle to Sallah in the last two years. He deserves to win it.” Meanwhile, Nwosu has faulted CAF for not recognising the hard work of Leicester City’s Wilfred Ndidi and Lille’s Victor Osimhen in the year under review. He said that both players deserved prominent position than to finish outside the top three for the African Player of the Year. “It is unfortunate that CAF have not found Nigerian duo of Ndidi and Osimhen worthy of a place in the top three. They have had good year and should have been included,” he added. “I however believe that 2020 may be their year if they keep up the good work and remain consistent.” CAF will name its African Player of the Year on January 7 in Egypt.