 Just last month, it was in the news that Air Peace purchased three Embraer E195-E2 jets at the Dubai air show. This is in addition to the 10 already in use to boost its operations. Air Peace is currently West Africa’s largest airline with over 26 planes in its fleet. It also holds the feat for being the airline with the most diversified jets in its fleet. The zeal for growth has seen the airline imbued with the capacity to seamlessly manage more than 90 daily flights across widespread route sectors within Nigeria. In this regard, no indigenous airline comes close. Within five years of operation, it has taken the heights of possibilities in the Nigerian aviation sector to another level. The airline has become the pacesetter in the aviation sector and pride of Nigeria to the world. In the second quarter of 2019, the airline blazed another trail. It launched its first international flight to Dubai via the Sharjah International Airport in the United Arab Emirates. It also recently partnered with the organisers of the One Africa Music Fest to airlift music stars to the event which held at the Dubai Festival City Arena in November. The experience was much talked about by the celebrities who took to their social media handles to recount the memorable in-flight experience. Many went on to express how unbelievable the experience was for them and how much it trumps the experience offered by many established airlines. They couldn’t believe Air Peace was ‘Nigerian’. That’s the feeling of pride that the airline continues to inspire in every Nigerian when viewed from the lens that it is a privately-run airline. The excellence in its operation offers ample evidence that the airline is a symbol of the possibilities in Nigeria; one from which many Nigerian entrepreneurs and businesses will draw inspiration and guidance. This is more so needed in a time when businesses, more than ever, are bowing to the unstable economic realities. The airline’s excellence is not found in the number of aircraft in its fleet but in spirited employees who continue to keep the torch of excellence burning. Just recently, the crew was honoured with the ‘Most Security Conscious Crew’ award. This honour was in recognition of the sterling efforts of its crew in frustrating the plot of two ill-minded women to kidnap a three-month old baby. This happened on a flight due for Banjul, The Gambia, from Lagos in June, 2018. The crew members have been on top of their game and have frustrated similar attempts on local flights. Air Peace’s excellent strides do not go unnoticed. At the recently held Nigeria Tourism Awards, the airline added another feather to its cap as it won the ‘Best Airline’ (domestic category). This feat does not come as a surprise as the airline continues to blaze the trail in a highly delicate sector. The recognition as the best airline is in addition to the numerous worthy acknowledgements gotten from reputable corporate establishment and the comments made by esteemed customers for its excellent service delivery. In a sector where many have ventured and failed, Air Peace continues to set the pace and in an outstanding fashion. The airline continually leaves imprints of excellence in the destinations it currently flies both within and outside the shores of Nigeria. The brand has shown no signs of slowing and has consistently demonstrated that it is the best of Nigeria by Nigerians, for the world. 