  160 years ago, Rev. Henry Townsend published the first newspaper in Nigeria. It was known as ‘Iwe Iroyin lede Yoruba Fun Awon Ara Egba’. With that singular act on the solid rock of Abeokuta, he built a solid foundation for what has become a very vibrant industry. The industry has made long-standing and inspiring contributions to our great but struggling country. The environment for the media has been very tough but editors, columnists and journalists generally have soldiered on. They are rights activists, they are kingmakers and they shape policy direction. Significantly, they are heard but, most times, not seen. They celebrate others but almost no one celebrates them. Many of them even believe they should not be celebrated because theirs is a calling that craves some sort of anonymity. The Gatekeepers by O’Femi Kolawole documents the careers of 20 top journalists in the country. The book is divided into twenty chapters, with a chapter dedicated to one editor or columnist or leading broadcaster. On the pages of this book, we meet the great Mike Awoyinfa, a superb columnist, history maker and Nigeria’s King of Tabloids. We also meet Gbenga Omotoso, the immediate past Editor of The Nation and one of Nigeria’s longest serving Editor. Another gatekeeper, whose inspiring story is laid bare in this book, is ex-presidential spokesman Olusegun Adeniyi, who is now the Editorial Board Chairman of ThisDay. Adeniyi edited almost all the titles on ThisDay’s stable. We also meet Mrs. Olabisi Deji-Folutile, a woman who has been able to show that what a man can do a woman can do better. This book sheds light on the amazing life and career of Mr. Abraham Ogbodo, a Theatre Arts graduate who became Editor of The Guardian. Mr. Kolawole also gave us rare insight into the story of the man who holds the record of being The Punch’s longest serving Editor. Until Martins Ayankola broke that record, it was held by journalism scholar, Mr. Gbemiga Ogunleye, the Rector of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ). My former boss and source of inspiration, who remains one of the best writers Nigerian journalism has ever produced, Mr. Dare Babarinsa, has inspiring anecdotes to share in this book. Babarinsa, Tell magazine’s co-founder and Editor-in-Chief of Gaskia Media, has mentored and is still mentoring many a reporter. On the pages of this exceptional book, we are given exclusive insights into the man Eric Osagie, the immediate past Managing Director of The Sun, the tabloid birthed by Awoyinfa and the late Dimgba Igwe. Osagie, we find out in this book, is angry at the country’s political class, who he sees as Democratic Parasites. His successor, Onuoha Ukeh, also finds generous space in this book and the story he has to tell is nothing but a confirmation of the saying that with God all things are possible. Ukeh started his journalism career as a copy and production man and, today, he is the MD/Editor-in-Chief of The Sun. Before then, he was Editor of the daily paper, a position he attained after editing the Saturday title. The Gatekeepers also introduces to us Tokunbo Adedoja, one of the youngest Editors in recent media history. Adedoja, the policeman’s son and Political Scientist, is now Director, ThisDay Digital, after his period as Editor of ThisDay on Sunday. Adedoja, we find out on the pages of this book, has an uncommon career in Nigeria’s media history. I will leave you to find out what that entails when you buy and read this book. Mr. Kolawole also ‘intrudes’ into the privacy of the don of Daily Independent, Mr Don Okere, who is editing the Ogba-Lagos-based newspaper. He tells us Don is the second of eight children of his parents. There are many more juicy details about the Editor of Daily Independent. Do you know that the father of the respected Editor of the Vanguard, Mr. Eze Anaba, was a factory worker at the Ewekoro Cement Company? Do you know that despite his meagre pay his father was always buying newspapers? Do you know that his father died when he was still young and against all odds he found his way to the UK for a Master’s degree? Mr. Kolawole has the answers to these questions and many more about the consummate professional called Eze Anaba, who is passionate about leaving a legacy for posterity. The history of broadcasting in Nigeria cannot be complete without Mr. Bisi Olatilo, the polyglot who is the founder of Biscon Communications. The veteran broadcaster remains an inspiration. The Gatekeepers gives us rare insights into his colourful life. On the pages of this book, we will also meet and better understand others, such as Azuh Arinze, the publisher of Yes International Magazine and author of The CEO’s Bible; Juliet Bumah, the editor of Sunday Telegraph; my boss, Mr. Wola Adeyemo, the cocoa farmer’s son who rose to edit Tell; and Mr. Debo Abdulai, who is the Editor of the Nigerian Tribune. The book also features Mr. Tokunbo Ojekunle, the broadcaster who fell in love with radio as a four-year old boy, Mr. Ademola Adegbamigbe, The Editor of The News and Mr. Seye Kehinde, who redefined soft-sell journalism in Nigeria. Aside telling us the stories of the editors, columnists and broadcasters featured in it, it also tells us the history of some media houses. Reading Azu Arinze’s story, for instance, is like reading the story of FAME Weekly, Reel Stars, National Encomium and YES International. Omotoso’s story gives fascinating insights into what happened to The Comet, a newspaper he edited for its entire lifespan. From the story, it is clear that the first edition should not have been circulated because some things were not right but as Editor Omotoso had no power to dictate to the owners; he swam with the flow and we are all witnesses to what happened after that first edition hit the market: The bang that was to follow the coming of The Comet was not herd. The problem, according to Omotoso, was not in the quality of stories or their presentation, but the printing equipment failed the paper and the quality it produced was below standard. So, despite parading some of the best hands in the profession at the time, The Comet did not catch many people’s fancy. Aside the machine issue, the paper, Omotoso revealed, also did not have the financial chest to prosecute the war! Aside The Comet, FAME Weekly and National Encomium, this book also provides perspectives on newspapers and magazines, such as The Concord, TELL, The News, Newswatch and so on. The book also brings back memories of journalists such as Kunle Ajibade, George Mbah and Chris Anyanwu and their ordeals under the despotic regime of the late Gen. Sani Abacha. It also reminds us of the late Dele Giwa, who was bombed on Talabi Crescent, off Adeniyi Jones, Ikeja. Coincidentally, the house where he was parcel-bombed is now home to The New Telegraph newspapers. The book also opens an important debate about the media’s role in the ‘Elite Nigerian Problem’. Is the media guilty of helping the political elite to under-develop the country? Your guess is as good as mine, especially if you have it at the back of your mind that he who pays the piper calls the tune! The book is highly recommended for journalists, aspiring journalists, students of journalism and anyone who is interested in knowing how the media works.