Sir: President Muhammadu Buhari must not allow some politicians constitute clogs in the wheel of his progress knowing that masses confidence on him is at stake. Election is over. This is the time to be strict and focused for service delivery to earn accolades after exit from politics in 2023. Those that preferred conceited interests and ambitions to public interest should be laid off. Second term in office by Nigeria’s constitution precedes retirement. But the retirement; fulfilled, glorious or otherwise will be determined by some dynamics. The major challenge facing the country is insecurity which has perceptibly given President Buhari sleepless nights. Economy may never boom as targeted until insecurity is dealt with. The twosome; security and economy go hand in hand. And any government that failed to prioritize them is cruising on abysmal failures. Unfortunately, scores of citizens that devotedly enrolled in a government institution; National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) and graduated since 2013 have been subjected to redundancy and idleness; roaming the streets without vocations by designs of some privileged persons in government. Pondering on the unending ugly dramas regarding the admission of NOUN law graduates who had been encumbered from proceeding for their vocational training in the Nigerian Law School for no crimes committed can only make any patriotic persons weep deeply for the nation. The commonest question that must come to mind is; can the country freely move forward with such actors as public officeholders? The most horrible challenge any government can face is harboring fifth columnists who pursue selfish agendas distinct from the government they constitute. This is indeed unfortunate. Lack of continuity, unity of purpose and open-mindedness in government is the major task in governance. Any system where personal interests are placed above public interests will collapse. The Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu’s efforts on the protracted NOUN/Law School crisis have often met a brick wall. Adversaries within, they say, are the worst enemies. And President Buhari must be mindful of such characters as they can sabotage other government’s policies mutely. Like corruption, if you don’t deal with fifth columns within, it will deal with the government. No doubt, NOUN/Law School crisis was inherited from two previous administrations, but President Buhari must give these oppressed students the anticipated relief. According to Simone de Beauvoir, “All oppression creates a state of war”. And the time to avert it is now. It is bizarre for a unique innovation federal government adopted from developing nations and established with public funds to be subjected to hostility and pull-down syndrome instead of strengthening it to stand. How could human beings willfully, joyfully cripple their fellow citizens? Anyway, a fulfilled and glorious retirement after serving the nation is only tenable by remarkable accomplishments, and therefore any detractors within the system should be discharged in the best interest. Thus, let the needful be done.