 EPHRAIM’S first love was football and he played very well as a young chap but at 11 years he began to drift away from football to music. At 14, his love for music had grown beyond his love for football and he even began to dream music. “I knew music was it for me when I started to get ideas for lyrics and beats. I would just sit in my room and the ideas would come. I would think of melodies in my head and write it down. Sometimes, I sleep and when I wake up, I would get some ideas and write it down. Things just kept happening like signs that I should do music,” he told The Nation. Known as Best In Kent, BIK, in his home town, Kent, UK, where he lives, Equation has been described as an artist with a peculiar background and exceptional talent by his colleagues. “Before his first official commercial release in Nigeria, he has had a lot of A list artists who have been showing interest in picking him and signing him up. “This decade started with Tu Face, Remedy, Plantashun boiz, then you experienced the era of Timaya, Wande Coal, Mohits, Wizkid and now you see Burna boy. So, Equation is the solution to the marketing of afro beat in a global stage,” his colleague Asha Gangali, a musical recording artist, said. The first year North Kent College student said he was influenced by people like Drek, Wizkid because of the Nigerian connection. “Wizkid made me go into music because I saw that he came from nothing to something and with what I have already, I have a chance as well. I also look up to people like Teni, Burna Boy, and Fire boy because they are young. I have seen what they do and it gives me belief. They are taking over the music industry now and I admire them. They make me feel that anything is possible.” Talking about his videos, he said his first video titled FAAJI was shot in Lagos in August. “I just shot another music video on the weekend for my new single called Ko Ba Mi, coming out soon. “FAAJI came up coincidentally, I was in the studio with my producer and he was just doing his thing with beats and stuff and I was going along with it. FAAJI means party or having fun so the music came out when we were playing around, having fun in the studio. We didn’t even know that it would end up as a song.” The son of a doctor who says he combines music with schooling very well said his music is not affecting his grades as according him; he can separate school time from music time.  “But I know that school is very important and I put it before music.” Speaking about the uniqueness of his songs, the Cross River State-born artist said he has the ability to make sounds from anything he hears and likes. “I don’t think many people my age can hear a sound and do something around it even if they like it. I am able to function on anything as long as I like it and also my song appeals to a wide range of demographic.” The young artist who has done a few performances in the UK said Afrobeat is beginning to gain a high acceptance in the UK as he said that they love it and dance to it. “As a Nigerian living in the UK, they see me as an average 17-year-old black boy but I am far more than that. In the UK, my song was played on Ben Radio and in Nigeria my song has been played in some television stations and radio stations like Silverbird TV, Rhythm fm, and some others.” Equation who has two brothers and a sister explained how the name equation came about. “The name equation came up one day while I was trying to solve a mathematics home-work and I called mum to assist with the equation.  She came to help but instead of doing what I wanted her to do for me she was saying something else. Suddenly she said how about the name equation and I thought okay, it is a good name. “The name relates to music in the sense that everyone should try to balance things in their lives, be it work, wealth, respecting others, and being kind to people.” He said his family supports him a lot that’s why whenever he comes to Nigeria they make it all about him. “Sometimes I have to go to the studio and when I don’t get back early, my mum stays awake to make sure I get back in one piece. I stay out late to make sure that I can pursue my dream.” Giving a word of advice to young people who aspire to be musicians, he said work hard and persistence are key. “There are times that people might want to put you down but you have to pick yourself up and keep driving and pushing because anything is possible so keep doing your thing.” Equation said his music carries messages about fun, being oneself, believing that no one can stop him, “nothing anyone say can affect me in anyway negatively, I will turn the negatives to positives,” he said. He said he hopes to get to the top, be among the big names that people talk about in the future.