 Following request by operators and other stakeholders to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for extension of recapitalisation deadline, the Commission is reviewing whether to extend the deadline or not, Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports.  The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has said it is looking into the pleas of  operators to extend the June 2020 deadline on the recapitalisation of the industry. Its Deputy Director/Spokesman, Rasaq Salami, in an interview with The Nation, however, said this was not to say the Commission is having a rethink about the recapitalisation. He explained that the industry asked for an extension of the June 2020 date but has promised to get back to the operators. He said it is not all operators that were asking for the extension as some have already gone far in the recapitalisation bid. He said just as some are complaining, others are completing their processes, noting that a handful of the companies have completed their process. At the last Insurers Committee Meeting in Lagos earlier this month, the Chairman, Brand and Publicity Sub-committee of Insurers Committee, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, affirmed that there’s  was a proposal to NAICOM for the deadline extension. Mrs Nwachukwu, who is also the Managing Director/CEO, NSIA Insurance Limited, said the regulator had promised to review its proposal before deciding on whether to extend the deadline or not. She said: “At the meeting, operators proposed to NAICOM to extend the recapitalisation deadline to give operators more time to raise the needed capital and the commission has asked us to articulate our request and forward them to it for deliberation.” Asked whether his insurance firm could meet the deadline set by NAICOM or not, the Managing Director/CEO, Niger Insurance Plc, Mr. Edwin Igbiti, said the regulator has set the deadline, ‘’We, as operators, have no option but to work towards meeting it’’. The National President, Constance Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Shehu Mikail,  said there was need for an extension of the deadline, as it does not look feasible due to the economic challenges. “The directive can be implemented when the economy improves. While the initiative is laudable, there can be problems with the implementation. The present time-frame and procedure could affect the growth of the insurance companies. “I think it is good to have the recapitalisation to enable us have stronger insurance companies. But because the economy is not friendly at this period, most of the insurance companies would face more problems as nobody is ready to invest money.” Meanwhile, the Commission has said it has set in motion measures to combat post-recapitalisation challenges. Its Director, Policy and Regulation Directorate, Mr Pius Agboola said the Commission is committed to driving the industry after the exercise. Agboola, who spoke in Lagos, sai there was no doubt that the growth potential of insurance was huge, hence, NAICOM has decided to put more emphasis on market development to enable investors get value for their investment. He maintained that as a stakeholder in ensuring that investors get value for their money, NAICOM has made commitment to develop and deploy appropriate framework for enforcement of compulsory insurances, information technology deployment in the insurance sector and Risk-Based Supervision (RBS). Others, according to him, included appropriate and relevant distribution model; improvement in insurance awareness; better corporate governance oversight and effective collaboration with relevant sectors. He said to achieve the objective, other prudential issues and market conduct and practice would be given more attention to put companies on track for the achievement of shareholders’expectation. 