By Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo  As the world celebrates this year’s Soil Day, Bowen University, Iwo in Osun State has charged Nigerians to do away with deforestation and overgrazing to prevent climate change. A senior lecturer at the College of Agriculture of the university, Dr. Vincent Ishola, said that it was expected that climate change would disrupt world by causing extinction of some species, adding that the Africa would be more vulnerable than other continents. Speaking on the theme: Stop Soil Erosion, Save Our Future, to celebrate the 2019 World Soil Day, he said that 33 percent of the fertile soil had been washed away by erosion which according to him, could be prevented by planting grasses. Ishola charged the government to sensitise people on how to prevent and control soil erosion in their localities, saying: “We join the rest of the world to celebrate the Soil Day and ask the government to raise awareness among the people about the soil health. Our experience has shown that erosion is a problem to crop production and if we fail to prevent it, it will destroy the present and coming generations.  “We can stop soil erosion through conservation including best agronomic practices. We can reduce tillage or no-tillage, permanent organic cover by retaining crop residue and crop rotations. All these practices will help mitigate climate change effect. “Soil sequestration can be achieved by enhancing concentration and pools of SOC and soil inorganic as a secondary carbonates through land use conversion and adoption of recommended management practices in agriculture and pasture grasslands and forest ecosystems, restoration of degraded and drastically disturbed soils.” Also speaking, the coordinator for Bachelor of Agriculture Programme in the university, Dr. Lawal Tunde, urged people to guard against anything that could decrease value of the soil for good living of human beings. According to him, plants and animals are living things that depend on soil, saying “there is no way we can have life without soil. Plants grow from soil to produce oxygen that animals share.” 