Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  The face-off between the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) in Anambra state and the Anglican Diocese on property ownership has been resolved following intervention of the Director General of the scheme, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim. The State Coordinator, Kehinde Aremu disclosed this on Monday while fielding questions from newsmen at the swearing ceremony of the 2019 Batch ‘C’ stream 2 corps members at the Umuawulu/Mbaukwu permanent orientation camp. The NYSC and the church had been at loggerhead over the ownership of property at the Progressive Secondary School, Umunya, owned by the church but served as a temporary camp until its relocation last October. The scheme, ahead of its relocation, had requested for the release of the property, including 1,000 units of mattresses, 600 units of double bunk beds, assorted furniture items, 12 water tanks, kitchen utensils, large changeover switch, among other items. But the church, through its supervisory priest, Rev. Canon Marcel Emeh, reportedly insisted the bishop must give directive before the property could be moved. But the State coordinator, at the event Monday, said the lingering matter had been resolved following the meeting of the Director General with the Bishop of the Diocese during his visit to the state. “You know our DG was here in camp on Sunday. He met with the church leadership and the matter was amicably resolved. “As a peace loving man, our DG said we should leave the property for them. We’ve resolved to make do with what we have and buy more if need be.” he said. Aremu disclosed that a total of 1051 prospective corps members, including 482 males and 569 females were registered in the camp, adding that they had displayed uncommon sense of patriotism and discipline to authorities. Earlier, the State governor, Willie Obiano assured his administration’s continued support to the NYSC including making life comfortable for the corps members and staff of the Scheme. Obiano, represented by the head of Service, Harry Uduh, announced the donation of N10millon for augmentation of the camp feeding for the corps members. He also expressed confidence that the conducive atmosphere provided in the new camp would offer the corps members the desired motivation to equip themselves for the execution of the 3-weeks exercise. “You are the first batch to use this Ultra-modern permanent orientation camp. This makes your group a unique one. I charge you to use the facilities judiciously,” he added.