THE familiar problem of lack of adequate publicity and consultation with stakeholders is again apparent in the way the Senate is going about the enactment of a proposed major bill which reportedly has the aim of divesting the Federal Government of the responsibility for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of federal roads and putting the powers to perform these functions in the hands of foreign and local investors. It is obvious that this proposed law is motivated by the need to address the challenge of practically collapsed critical roads that have not only become death traps but also facilitate such crimes as armed robbery and kidnapping, while also being a serious impediment to economic efficiency and productivity. However, it is not enough for such a critical envisaged legislation to be given only perfunctory mention in the media arising from routine interviews by lawmakers. There must be an intensive campaign to generate public interest and support that will then elicit the necessary public debates and critiques that will lead to either strengthening the law or even jettisoning it altogether. For instance, speaking to the press about the proposed legislation, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Federal Roads Maintenance Agency, Senator Gershom Bassey, sought to justify moving the responsibility for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of federal roads from government to the private sector. Arguing that it has become obvious that the Federal Government is incapable of carrying out these responsibilities from available yearly budgetary provisions, Senator Bassey said, “There is no rocket science here. This idea has been working in other parts of the world and it cannot be different in Nigeria. Money will automatically flow into our roads because the private sector will be willing and ready to invest since they know it’s a thriving business and they will recoup their money”. True, there is a shift worldwide from public sector monopoly of responsibility for funding and provision of infrastructure to substantially enhanced private sector participation. But does the Nigerian situation warrant a complete handover of responsibility for roads construction and maintenance to the private sector as the proposed bill seems to suggest? Surely, the private sector is no Father Christmas. It will legitimately seek to recover its investment through road tolls, which will have implication for transportation costs, including the cost of agricultural products, for example. In that case, should private sector participation not be limited to major highways and bridges that cannot be funded within current budgetary limits while government agencies continue to maintain and rehabilitate other roads with the available resources? Again, the proposed law seeks to replace the current Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) with a new Federal Road Authority (FRA) to absorb the former. But what purpose will this serve, especially as Senator Bassey has also revealed that the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) has failed over the years to remit five percent of its pump price template to FERMA as required by law? Consequently, the amount of accumulated funds due to FERMA, which is still in the custody of the PPPRA, is estimated at N870 billion. Is what is required then the replacement of FERMA with a new agency or the need to compel PPPRA to comply with the law and ensure that FERMA is properly funded, equipped and reorganised to function with optimal efficiency? Again, should the vast majority of these federal roads not be handed over to the states in which they are located, which will be able, due to proximity, to manage them more efficiently, thus relieving the Federal Government of the burden? These and other issues need to be interrogated through extensive engagement with the public on all aspects of the proposed law.