Senate President Ahmad Lawan on Sunday explained why the Ninth Senate is in a hurry to deliver on some of its legislative agenda. The Senate is conscious of the need to act fast and cover a lot of grounds before the 2023 politics sets in to slow down governance, he said. He spoke at the End of Year get-together/award organised by the Senate management for staff members. Lawan said: “We came with our own ideas; our own agenda as distinguished Senators of the ninth Senate. “We passed our agenda. What we intend to do as Senators to enhance good governance in Nigeria is to make Nigeria better for the citizens. And of course, the way we want to go is different from the way of the past because perhaps the goals and targets are different. “And we are also in a hurry. We know the need for us to act fast. Time is of essence. In the next two years or so, the Nigerian political landscape will be dotted by people campaigning for presidency, for governorship and the rest of it. And that will in a way cause some disruption, or slowdown in governance. “So, between now and the next two years we have told ourselves that we have to work hard to ensure that, as a legislature, we are able to perform our roles creditably to enable government function very well for Nigerians. And that is what we have been trying to do.” The Senate president said by the time the lawmakers return from their break in January, the Petroleum Industry Bill which appeared to have defied passage and the Constitutional amendment which is a continuous exercise will be addressed. “The mode of operation of this current Senate is: we don’t give space. We don’t create any space in the middle. We just want it done and done away with it.” He thanked the workers for their dedication, hard work and noted that they are so significant to the achievement so far recorded by the Senate. “We are supposed to celebrate you. That is why I’m here because we have put all of you to test when we came in. The first test we had for ourselves as senators and you as supporting staff was the screening of the Presidential ministerial nominees. “We were supposed to go on break but we held back for one week and it was a very exhaustive week. We sat up to about 8pm from morning. We succeeded because you were there for us. “And the subsequent activities, including, of course, the budget that we have just passed. The National Assembly turned into a beehive of activities right from the day we said the budget defence will start and the budget defence will end. Most of you were always in the National Assembly. You worked so hard. You made us to succeed. “When we passed the budget on last Thursday, it was because you played your part so well and that is why we were able to achieve. So, I want to thank you on behalf of my colleagues for being there for us. You are a significant part of the Senate. “So, when you are not able to perform, whatever we wish, whatever we do as Senators, will not be translated into that dream that we have of getting those things passed to the executive arm of government for immediate action. “You deserve more than you are getting from the Senate or the National Assembly. We will work together with the management to see how we can make you perform better because we actually need your full potentials realised in this enterprise.” Clerk of the National Assembly Mohammed Sani-Omolori also commended the workers and assured them that the management will continue to strive hard to meet their needs within the available resources.