Clustering is one strategy being promoted  to help  transform the economy as experts mull measures to advance industrialisation. Clustering was an highpoint at the Farm2Fork Dialogue held in Ilorin, Kwara State, writes DANIEL ESSIET.  Agriculture powered by industrialisation will help raise incomes and productivity of farmers. It will also lower food prices and improve nutrition. This was the position of stakeholders at the just-concluded Farm2Fork Dialogue held in Ilorin, Kwara State. The dialogue, with the theme “Eliminating the economic impediments to a prosperous commodity agribusiness”, was aimed at providing long-term solutions to the challenges facing the sector in Nigeria. The participants discussed the various ways of using agriculture to sustain industrial development. They advocated for an inclusive long-term modernisation and economic transformation scheme that should enable substantial and sustained development to raise living standards. Despite being a primarily agrarian economy, they said agriculture  was lagging behind in output and  productivity, and had not created  equitable wealth in the country. According to them, agriculture in Nigeria was in need of efficiency, modernisation and innovation.  They said the government has a major    role to play in facilitating the modernisation of the  sector  and  can  start  by  investing  in infrastructure   and   irrigation systems that would help  improve productivity. On industrialisation, they sought major interventions such as an improved policy environment for agriculture, increased volume and efficiency of public and private sector investments, creation of regional value chains and participation in processes as well as increased value addition for products and services. The Chief Executive Officer, AgroNigeria and co-covener of the Farm2Fork Dialogue, Richard-Mark Mbaram, described the realities of Nigeria’s economy as “prodigal”, saying that “agriculture is Nigeria’s get-out-of-jail free card”. Lauding the partial closure of land borders as a bold and decisive step, Mbaram noted that, at the level of constructive engagements, there was need for a few more active steps. According to him, this was what informed the Farm2Fork Dialogue to create long-standing solutions to the impediments hindering agro commodity businesses in the country. “The Farm2Fork Dialogue is not a talk shop; we are here to dimension custom-fitted solutions to challenges bedeviling agribusiness.” He further said actualising the commodity ecosystem of our dreams must be prioritised for any meaningful transformation to occur. Special Adviser to the African Development Bank (ADB) President on Industrialisation, Prof. Banji Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, described agro-industrialisation as the ticket for job creation, adding that successful agricultural transformations are business-led. On the need to steer Nigeria in this direction, he said agriculture was not just a sector but a collection of technologies. The Chairman, Agricultural Trade Group of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Mr. Ade Adefeko, reiterated the need to conduct a sectoral diagnosis for any real change to occur.  He said: “Right now, there is no convergence and there is no nexus regarding transiting to this revolution because, honestly speaking, our research institutions are not fit for purpose. What we need is a robust approach and a potpourri of Agric entrepreneurs to put things into perspective.“ Reiterating this in her address, President of the Cocoa Association of Nigeria (CAN) Princess Roseline Ibitoye said cocoa industry had been neglected by past and present governments. She said there was need to put the cash crop back on track as a leading commodity. For Nigeria to leapfrog to the Fourth Industrial Revolution in Agriculture, stakeholders pointed out that there was a need to be an activation of a knowledge-based economy and proliferation of existing technologies across the various value chains. Consequently, ADB resolved to partner the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to promote special agro-industrial processing zones to increase food production capacity and promote local, regional and international trade.  Farmers Quotes “Cultivators of the earth are the most valuable citizens. They are the most vigorous, the most independent, the most virtuous, and they are tied to their country and wedded to its liberty and interests by the most lasting bonds.” -Thomas Jefferson-