Arik Air said on Tuesday that it is set to boost its operations ahead of the Yuletide season as two of its aircraft returned from a major maintenance check – in aviation parlance described as C- Check conducted at Lufthansa Technik AG facility in Malta. The return of the two airplanes including a Q- 400 and Boeing 737 – 800 according to a statement by the carrier was part of efforts by the management team led by Captain Roy Ilegbodu to resolve outstanding debts with the African Export Import Bank ( AFREXIM) and string support from Lufthansa Technik AG. Ilegbodu said the carrier was set to take advantage of the huge passenger influx during Yuletide as it expects two additional aircraft to return from maintenance facility in the next few weeks. He said one airplane will return before the end of the year, while the other will return by January 2020. He said in the last two years, the current management has been working hard to improve the number of serviceable aircraft in the airline’s fleet. The efforts, he said are yielding results. Ilegbodu said: “The Arik fleets are nearly mid – life and such require major overhaul of engines, landing gear, etc. Unfortunately, Arik in addition to being over burdened by debts had no reserves. The company was simply in a fix. The significant work done to date has therefore been the result of prudent management of resources and the support of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON). “The management’s effort is bearing fruits with two more aircraft expected to return from C-checks in the next few weeks – one at the end of the year, and another in January. “Since the current management took over the airline operation its Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is positive, customers’ confidence has been restored On Time Performance (OTP) is over 70 per cent – from as low as 30 per cent ; load factors on domestic routes are over 80 per cent , flight cancellations are down to less than one per cent from over 40 per cent , Salaries are paid as at when due, pensions are being remitted, all current obligations are being met and the company is prepared for AMCON exit. “The Boeing 737-800 had been in Malta with Lufthansa Technik AG since 2015 before the current management came on board, and its return is a huge testimony of the achievements of the current management due to the high cost of C check of as a result of extended lay over.” The Chief Executive Officer of Arik, Capt. Roy Ilegbodu said: “We are pleased to announce the return of some of our airplanes, following positive resolution of our outstanding debts with African Export Import Bank (AFREXIM) and strong support from Lufthansa Technik AG. “We are aware that our services are critical to numerous travelers in this festive season, and we are ready for the challenges ahead with improved schedule in our domestic and regional network and excellent customer experience.”