Talking about melons, there are many kinds of melon species available. Different from other species of melons, golden melon is sometimes tasteless. However, it is very refreshing and owns such an amazing aroma. When some other melons usually have thick and textured skin, golden melon has its smooth and thin skin. In case of nutritional information, golden melon owns a great nutrition content, just like the other kinds of melon with its benefits such the health benefits of Korean melon. Some of the nutrition from golden melon which is beneficial for our body is: Vitamin C, Pantothenic acid, Calcium, Zinc, Iron, Potassium, Vitamin A, Omega 3, among others. The most impressive thing from golden melon nutritional information is that it contains omega 3 and omega 6 fatty acids. Those fatty acids are usually found in animal product such fish which included in health benefits of meat, poultry and fish. The health benefits include: Reduce blood pressure: Potassium is able to support in controlling nerves, blood vessels and muscles contraction which further affect the blood pressure; Control cholesterol, Improve cardiovascular health; Ease digestion; Manage weight; Hydrate the body; Good for skin; Support better sleep quality The ability of golden melon in enhancing mood will also affect our sleep pattern. With a good mood, we are able to avoid depression. Further, we are also able to fix some sleep problems such insomnia. Well, golden melon helps you to sleep better and wake a better day in the next morning. Golden melon can be included into healthy fruit and veggie smoothies to have the health benefits of fruit and veggie smoothies.  Combining golden melon into fruit and veggie smoothies will also enhance the taste of golden melon while adding pleasant aroma to the vegetables. As we know, many people hate to include vegetables into their smoothies as vegetable smell horrible as a smoothie. We can also consume golden melon as a cocktail. Just peel the melon, halve it, and scoop the juicy flesh. Mix it with the other fruits and add some water and syrups. Pineapple and water melon might be the perfect combination for golden melon mocktail. Those fruits will effectively hydrate your body and enhance your performance.