Zain Ejiofor Asher is a British Nigerian news anchor at CNN International, New York City and younger sister to award winning Hollywood actor Chiwetel Ejiofor. In the interview with OLAITAN GANIU, Zain who was born and raised in London, revealed why her family relocated to United Kingdom many years ago, how her actor-brother inspires her journalism career among other issues.  WHO is Zain Asher? On paper, I’m a news anchor at CNN International. At my core, I’m a woman trying, though imperfectly, to be a better citizen of the world by being of service to others. Can you briefly tell us about your background? I was born and raised in London, but I’m originally from Nigeria. My parents moved to the UK after the Biafra war and started a family shortly thereafter. I now live in New York but I’ve also lived in Paris and Mexico. I’m a nomad and I love new cultures, but Nigeria will always be home.  When did you join CNN? In February 2013. Getting the news was one of the happiest moments of my adult life. Tell us about the programme you anchor. I anchor the business shows – covering everything from global markets to Silicon Valley to major economic news, trade and more recently, lots and lots of Brexit. I also host the weekly show, Marketplace Africa, which focuses on the role of the private sector on the continent. What prompted your foray into journalism? I’m naturally curious. I love asking questions, and my family will confirm this! I speak four languages and I have lived all over the world. I couldn’t imagine a more suitable profession. Were your parents in support of your career? Well, my brother is an actor, so by comparison, journalism was a lot easier for my mum to digest. Have you encountered obstacles in the course of your job? Coming from a magazine,  I had very little television experience before joining CNN, so the learning curve was steep. But just like with anything, you get out what you put in so I worked and worked at it until it paid off. How do you balance your work life and family? I have an amazing one year old baby. The hardest part was going back to work after maternity leave because I had no idea what to expect. Luckily, I have a wonderful husband who’s incredibly supportive. But that balance is obviously a challenge. I try to take each day as it comes and be present for my family the best I can. That means putting the phone down when we’re together even when it’s hard. We know Journalists are prone to risks? Have you ever been a victim of such before? I’ve avoided any serious scrapes, but my New York office was evacuated last year after the mailroom discovered a pipe bomb. Beyond that, my reporting has mostly taken me to big cities across Africa, where I thankfully haven’t had any problems. You were born into a Nigerian family (Igbo tribe) and raised in England.  Have you ever been treated differently? I think every minority experiences bias at times. Rather than letting it hold me back, I choose to focus on the gifts in my life and on being the best role model I can for young Africans who are keen to create a better future. How do you enjoy your free time? I started taking drawing lessons last year. It’s extremely cathartic and meditative. My husband and I also go to a lot of broadway shows, but nothing beats curling up in bed with a good book! If you are not a journalist, what would you have become? That’s an easy one – a teacher.