The second corruption survey by the National Bureau of Statistics NBS unveiled interesting data on the state of the war against that malfeasance in the country. Released in the seventh month of the second term of an administration that has the fight against corruption as one of its three cardinal programmes, the report could not have come at a more auspicious time. This is especially so as some of its findings conform to subsisting deficits in the current prosecution of the war against graft in public offices. In the latest survey, the police topped the chart as the most corrupt public agency. It posted similar unenviable record in the first report presented in 2016 though it had a drop from its 46 per cent rating then to 33 per cent in the current survey. Next to the police in this high corruption ladder are land registry officers with a posting of 25 per cent. However, the most comforting news was that health workers came last, posting five per cent as the least corrupt officials. This is something to cheer given the critical and very sensitive roles they play in the lives of the citizenry. Thus, for the war against corruption to be meaningfully and realistically prosecuted, the government must as a matter of urgency focus attention on the institution of the police and the land registry. It is imperative to get the police institution key into the war given mounting public complaints of extortion, bribery and corruption brazenly going on in that agency. It was nonetheless gratifying that there was a slight drop in the general level of corruption cases, particularly bribery from 32.3 per cent in 2016 to 30.2 per cent in 2019. This infinitesimal drop is a measure of the level of success recorded in the anti graft war. Perhaps, the most revealing aspect of the survey is in the area of its rating of states within the corruption index. In its state-by-state record, the NBS rated Kogi as the most corrupt state in the country with a 48 per cent score followed by Gombe State which had 45 per cent. Rivers State scored 43 per cent and Adamawa 41 per cent. Interestingly, the report rated Imo State as the least corrupt state with 17.6 per cent followed by Jigawa, Kano and Plateau states in that order. This contrasts very sharply with the high corruption profile Imo State posted in the first NBS survey. But, the good standing of Imo State within the corruption index has turned out a subject of claims and counter claims. This arose as aides to the former governor, Rochas Okorocha sought to appropriate credit for the current good standing of the state in the NBS corruption chart. Their argument is that since the last survey was done in 2016, much of the timeframe covered by the current one was when Okorocha held sway. For this, they would want the credit for the good outing to go to that regime. Apparently hiding under this claim, they saw the good rating as an opportunity to launder Okorocha’s image especially given the allegations of corruption hanging on his neck. But the Ihedioha-led administration dismissed the claims, insisting that the favorable placing of the state was a consequence of the several measures it initiated in several fronts to plug leakages and position the state on the path to steady growth by enthroning probity and accountability in public offices. Part of the measures the governor adopted on assuming office to check corruption was the introduction of the Treasury Single Account TSA. The state government rolled the TSA into quick motion by signing Order 005 which streamlined remittances into government’s coffers. Before the coming into being of the TSA, the previous government operated over 250 bank accounts leading to scandalous leakages in the revenue accruing to the state government. All these loopholes and avenues for financial leakages were plugged with the operation of the TSA. They also contended that the uncovering of 8,546 ghost worker by an audit committee on pensions which saved the state a monthly revenue of N280 million was a good evidence of a government with strong aversion for corruption and corrupt practices. Additionally, the sharp rise in Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, from its N200 million position when Okorocha held sway to nearly N1 billion since Ihedioha mounted the saddle could not but have earned the state good rating in the fight against corruption. They argued that these leakages had a free reign during the last administration and bore positive link with the first NBS report which rated Imo State very high in the corruption matrix.  And if all these leakages subsisted as Okorocha was leaving office, it is difficult to fathom how that regime could have posted a record different from its very embarrassing outing in the first survey report. That is as far as the arguments have been canvassed. Both claimants are entitled to their views. But there are issues arising from the NBS survey report and other facts in the public domain that should resolve which of the two administrations should take the credit for the current outing of the state. The NBS said the second report assessed the impact of measures put in place by ministries, agencies and departments of government in fighting corruption after the first report. Whereas we can find ample evidence of these measures since Ihedioha came on stream, there is nothing to show that Okorocha considered such measures relevant. Neither did his aides point at such measures by his regime before he left office. But then, Okorocha had boasted on many occasions that he had no room for due process. Again, the NBS said the report covered bribery during elections while observing that one out of five Nigerians took bribe or gift to vote during the last elections. It is very evident from the foregoing that the report is largely a recent one since it captured events during the last elections. A survey that covered the last elections is expected to have captured developments since the new administrations took over. The point being made here is that the measures taken by the current governors were critical factors in the standing of their states in the corruption ladder. So it is difficult for Okorocha and his supporters to ambush the credit for the current success of Imo State government in the fight against corruption. Moreover, there is adjunct information in the public domain that would render such claims an exercise in wishful thinking. During the last elections which the NBS said it captured in the report, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC had seized N5 billion of Imo funds. The anti graft agency said it seized the money because “Okorocha was spending too much money in a suspicious manner on the eve of the general elections”. The agency said about N8 billion from the Paris Club refund meant for workers salaries were kept by the state government only to begin spending it ‘frivolously’ just before the elections. Again, shortly before the expiration of his office, Okorocha had cried out that some members of his party were plotting with the EFCC to arrest him immediately his immunity expired. He even obtained a restraining order from the court to thwart his arrest. Even then, he has been grilled by the EFCC over alleged money laundering after leaving office. This is in addition to several high profile properties traced to him and members of his family that have been sealed up by the EFCC. Facts are sacred and they speak for themselves. It is difficult to figure out how a regime plagued by serious corruption scandals, could seek to appropriate the gains recorded in the current corruption chart. If Okorocha’s aides are anxious to launder his image, they are at liberty. But they are bound to hit the rocks in this contrived revisionism, if they lay claims to probity, accountability and due process.