Edo State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Barr. Anselm Ojezua, has said that no man can play God in the state’s politics. Barr. Ojezua said men that previously attempted to play God in the state failed. Ojezua assured Edo APC members that there was no cause for worries despite the altercation between Governor Godwin Obaseki and National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Speaking to journalists after a meeting of party leaders at Jattu-Uzaire, Etsako West Local Government Area, Ojezua said there was no division in Edo APC. Insisting that Governor Obaseki remains the leader of the APC in Edo, Barr. Ojezua stated that the party would soon announce a committee for mobilisation of new members into the party. Ojezua said the Edo APC has remained focused and avoided distractions from enemies of the party. He said, “Whatever is happening in Edo today is not new. This is is the third time. The first was between Chief Anenih, who claimed to be the leader of the party and Lucky Igbenedion, who the constitution empowers to be the leader. For the records, the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, not even that of the APC, recognises two leaders, the President of the country and the governor of the state. “So, Anenih said he was the leader, we said no, that it was Lucky Igbenedion because he was the governor. In the end, they won by manipulation but the people of Edo State went to court and Comrade Oshiomhole was declared governor. “The second phase was when Oshiomhole became governor and some people said they are the leaders of the party in the state, that Oshiomhole isn’t a politician but a trade union leader. As usual, we insisted that Oshiomhole as the governor remains the leader. This same Ize-Iyamu he is bringing now, said he will decide who leads the party in Edo State and when we insisted, he got annoyed and threatened to quit the party. He specifically said once he leaves, the APC in Edo State will die. But years after he is gone, has APC died? No, instead we are stronger, formidable and united. “Now, it is that same Oshiomhole who is claiming leader of the party forgetting how he fought in the past. He said Governor Obaseki is in charge of administration, while he controls the state’s politics since Obaseki isn’t a politician but a technocrat. But we say no. This too shall pass and we, the people, shall emerge victorious as always. It is just unfortunate that the national chairman allowed some persons to deceive him despite knowing that the governor is the leader of the state.”