Mr. Ganiyu Johnson, a member of the House of Representatives, recently interacted with stakeholders from his constituency, to know their needs and how best to represent them. In this interview with reporters, he spoke on the electronic voting, how the federal Government is the socio-economic challenges militating against the country. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE was there.  What is this meeting expected to achieve? During my campaign, I told the people of my constituency that I will make myself accessible to them. In fulfillment of the promise, I decided that henceforth, the last Saturday of every month, there will be a forum where we will meet. This I christened, ‘Meet Your Member of Parliament’. It will give us the opportunity of rubbing minds and knowing what the people want. It is also an opportunity to share their pains and problems. So, it is a thing of joy for them because they want to see their leaders and the legislator. They will interact with them directly instead of going through somebody else. So, it is a way of getting feedback, whether we are actually doing the job they elected us to do. Poverty is growing and there are complains that the APC is not doing enough to address it… Not long ago, we gave out some food items to our members. It was titled ‘Food For All’. That is to tell you that we are not relenting in our resolve to bring succour to the people. This , of course, will go from council to council within the Oshodi/Isolo Federal Constituency. We are really aware of the poverty level of our people and I can assure you that the party will address it. Part of the solution is the borders and now that they are closed, there is no need for imported food. This is because it will not enhance our economic life. People are now getting used to looking inward for their needs. They now think outside the box. That is why the government is encouraging people to patronize what we produce at home which is beneficial in the long run. People are groaning as a result of the border closure… I must say that the closure of the border is of significant benefit. We produce almost all the food items brought to the country. Is rice that we don’t produce in quantum? Most of the things that we are talking about, we have them in Nigeria, but we preferred imported rice to the locally-produced ones. Again, the imported rice in most cases had expired. This is cancerous to our health, whereas our own foods are very nutritious. For instance, I eat LAKE Rice, but how long must we continue to eat expired food? I don’t think this is good for our development. The people along the borderlines think they are most affected. It is time they see the wisdom in the decision to close the borders. We should think about the long-time effect of government policy and not the immediate pains that accompany border closure. We are looking at Nigeria as a whole and not in isolation. The people along the borders are not the only Nigerians in the country. It just unfortunate that Nigerians, who live along the border corridors, see themselves as the only ones affected by the closure, this is not true. How long can you sustain the poverty alleviation programme? By the grace of God, we will continue to sustain the programme and the noble ideas behind it. What we are doing is a commitment and we are prepared to bear the burden in the interest of our people. We shall continue with it every month and I think the people are willing to give us the support to serve them better. What has been the feedback from the people since you started the programme? What I have done in order to fulfill my own pledge and quota, is to appoint coordinators in each ward. We have 13 wards in the Oshodi/Isolo Federal Constituency. The coordinators are supposed to meet with the community development association members, landlord association members, party chieftains, stakeholders, and all NGOs, to know their needs. To the glory of God, I have been able to generate a template. In each ward, I know their need and plans are underway to address them. All I need to do is to give those who need transformers, boreholes what they need. At the end of the day, all the wards will benefit one thing or the other. I have the feedback already and that is what I am working on. Besides, I am just five months old in the office. You pleaded with Lagosians to be patient over the issue of bad roads. What is the way out? Most of our roads degenerated to this bad position due to negligence. This happened for too long. I must say that road works are not often done during the rainy season. I am happy that Lagos has commenced work on the roads, but climate change has not been fair to us. I am happy that the contractors have moved to the site. I want to assure you that work will not stop because this is the time that we can work that is between now and April.  At the end of April, Lagos will wear a new look, in terms of road infrastructure. How about the budget? The National Assembly has worked on the budget, but don’t forget that we have so many committees that met on the budget. The National Assembly constituted committees; each committee set the budget before to get their own views. And if they are not responding in time, it will make our own job difficult. In fairness to them, they have responded and we have round off. What is your take on the recent call for the amendment of the law to allow e-voting? Think about it, have we not implemented electronic voting? Is the card reader not electronic? Before you vote, you take your PVC and the card reader, this will authenticate whether you are the bearer or not. So, what are we trying to say about electronic voting? People are just being mischievous and that is the truth. What is electronic all about? The card reader itself is electronic. We should just try to encourage ourselves. What we need to do is just to have lots of campaign on how to make the system work. We need to sensitise our people to come out and vote during elections. Some people don’t have PVC and they are not ready to vote. And to put it appropriately,  sensitisation is the key word. You must go out and vote during the election. INEC must let the people know why they must not sell their votes. If this is done, I think we are good to go for now. We can begin to build on that, but we have to ensure that people understand their civic rights. Again, don’t forget that we don’t have an election budget for the nation. Let me quote Mr. President, he said the money we earn from oil cannot take care of the infrastructural deficit and that is the truth. We are blessed with oil, but the money we earn cannot fill in the gap of infrastructure. That is why we must educate, sensitize our people that they should try to be orderly during elections. Again, election is not a do-or-die affair, when you are popular the people will vote for you. 