Axxela Limited, a gas and power portfolio company, has pledged commitment to West African sub-region’s industrialisation via the build out of its natural gas infrastructure. Speaking at the Ghana Gas Forum (GGF) in Accra, Ghana, Axxela Head of Sales and Marketing, Tunde Baba-Agba, said: “Natural gas is now highly regarded as a key resource of the energy sector, and a key component geared towards value creation for West Africa’s economies. We’re confident that our strategic initiatives and the expansion of our operational footprint particularly within the virtual pipeline, gas processing and distribution, and embedded power spaces will help unlock the vast potential within important economic clusters across the region.” A Helios Investment Partners LLP portfolio company, Axxela is a designated natural gas shipper on the West African Gas Pipeline (WAGP). The company is also the pioneering private sector-led developer of natural gas distribution in Nigeria, delivering at peak 80 million standard cubic feet per day to over 175 industrial and commercial customers via a vast network of gas infrastructure. With over 280km in gas pipeline infrastructure built, Axxela provides unique energy solutions primarily through its main subsidiaries – Gaslink Nigeria Limited, Gas Network Services Limited, and Central Horizon Gas Company Limited.  Addressing regional collaboration and integration, Head of the Executive Committee, The Gas Consortium, organisers of the event, Senam Gbeho, said: “By implementing the right policies and decision-making structures, the region’s gas resources can be the catalyst that eliminates the continent’s distressing poverty levels. With the combined population and market size of the respective countries within the region, a real opportunity exists to collectively leverage existing gas resources, pursuant of industrialisation for economic transformation and social welfare.” Held annually, the Ghana Gas Forum is an indigenous knowledge resource suited to players in the natural gas industry with shared interests in policymaking and gas monetization efforts within Ghana and the sub-region. This year’s forum theme was ‘Promoting dynamic policymaking towards the optimization of regional gas resources’, with discourse centred on relevant gas policy issues that impact the sustainable development of the gas sector by promoting a cross-disciplinary understanding of policy tools and options. 