 MILLIONS of people around the world use makeup to enhance their features and express their personality. However, research has shown that dirty makeup sponges harbour the highest amount of bacteria among beauty products. New evidence shows that many makeup products that have passed their expiry dates, as well as many beauty tools  particularly makeup sponges  that people do not periodically clean, harbour potentially harmful bacteria, such as Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli. In an interview with Dr. Biola Aiyeola of Honey Glo Beauty World, Ishaga, Lagos, it was revealed that as of May 2017, 31% of people aged 1829 years, 41% of people aged 3059 years, and 35% of individuals aged 60 years and over wear makeup on a daily basis. “However, applying makeup in bathrooms, public toilets, and on car, train, and plane journeys gives makeup products and associated beauty tools plenty of opportunities to gather potentially harmful bacteria. “All makeup products have a ‘shelf life’, which refers to the period during which they are typically safe to use. The duration of this period varies from product to product, and improper use of makeup  such as rubbing eye shadow with unclean fingers  can affect it, too,” she warned. While lamenting that many companies use a symbol (an opened makeup jar) and a number  representing a number of months  on the packaging to indicate how long these products are safe to use for after a person has opened them. As a result, at least, manufacturers can get away with not giving consumers any information about the length of time for which a makeup product remains safe. Additionally, many makeup users also own special tools, such as brushes and sponges, to apply their products. These tools, too, can easily pick up harmful bacteria, but many users still neglect to clean them as frequently as they should. Now, a new study from the School of Life and Health Sciences at Aston University in Birmingham, United Kingdom, adds to the existing evidence that makeup products and cosmetic applicators harbour dangerous bacteria. According to self-reported information from the people who had sent these products to Bashir and Prof. Lambert for their research, only 6.4% of beauty products had ever received a cleaning. None of the submitted mascara wands had ever undergone cleaning. The researchers warn that these findings may spell trouble, particularly for immunocompromised individuals who are more prone to infection. “More needs to be done to help educate consumers and the makeup industry as a whole about the need to wash beauty blenders regularly and dry them thoroughly, as well as the risks of using makeup beyond its expiry date,” emphasises Bashir.