 POPULAR German evangelist, Reinhard Bonnke, is dead. He died on Saturday at 79. His death was announced in a statement signed by his wife, Anni. The statement was shared on Evangelist Bonnke’s verified Facebook page yesterday. In the statement, Anni said, “Dear Brothers and Sisters in Christ. It is with sorrow that the Bonnke Family would like to announce the passing of our beloved husband, father, and grandfather, Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke. “He passed away peacefully, surrounded by his family, on December 7, 2019. For the past 60 years, he has preached the glorious Gospel of Jesus throughout the entire world. We want to thank you on behalf of him and our family, for your kind love and unwavering support, which enabled him to preach the matchless message of salvation to countless people. He preached Jesus.” Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has described the death of the world renowned evangelist as a particular loss for Nigeria and the African continent. This was contained in a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, yesterday evening in Abuja. According to the statement, Bonnke reached the rest of the world with the message of salvation, and had particular strong impact on the African continent, especially Nigeria. He, therefore, commiserated with the immediate family of the departed preacher of the gospel, the government of Germany, his associates in the ministry and all associated with him, praying that God will comfort them all. He said, “President Buhari affirms that Bonnke’s crusades in Nigeria, across Africa and the globe strongly accentuated the message of Jesus Christ, and his vision and zeal for the salvation of souls clearly helped the world in understanding the power of love and kindness as universal language.” Prominent church leaders also paid glowing tributes to renowned German preacher and founder of Christ For All Nations (CFAN) whose last crusade in Africa, which he claimed God specially instructed him to hold in Lagos, was in 2017 on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson  Ayokunle, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media & Communications, Pastor Bayo Oladeji, described Bonnke as “one of the greatest generals of the gospel of eternal salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ on earth. “CAN and the entire Christian communities in Nigeria join the rest of Christians all over the world to mourn this fiery preacher and teacher of the Gospel and mentor to several evangelical leaders all around the world today.” Chairman of the 2017 Crusade Planning Committee, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, told our correspondent last night that Bonnke finished strong and well. “He had an undying passion for Christ and souls. Since his first crusade in 1985 in Lagos, he has never looked back. He would do anything to win souls for God. “He lived well. The Lord sent him with a message which he delivered so well and hard. He was easily the greatest ever crusader in Africa.” General Overseer of Omega Power Ministry (OPM) Auchi, Edo State, Apostle Johnson Suleman, praised Bonnke’s passion for radical evangelism. “You affected me so much with your radical passion for evangelism. You finished your assignment and in your lifetime handed over to your successor. Rest in peace sir,” he tweeted. President of Abraham Evangelistic Ministries (AEM), Bishop Abraham Olaleye, who was the chairman of the mobilisation committee for the 2017 crusade, described the deceased as a man with “unquenchable fire for God and souls.” “He had a passion for souls that he would never trade for anything. He saw the vision of a blood-washed Africa, which he struck to for years.” The Senior Pastor, Christ Living Apostolic Ministries (CLAM), Apostle Wole Oladiyun, said Bonkke was a great man of God who had lived his life for Christ and “specialised in visiting Africa for evangelism work. I hope African pastors will emulate all his works.” Also, Senior Pastor, The Vindicated Christian Ministries, Pastor Lawrence Olaniyi, said, “I’ve been reading his books for a long time, he has impacted so much in the lives of people. He spent his spiritual and financial resources for mission works, may his soul rest in peace.” In his tribute, Rev Victor Basola said the late evangelist “was a light to the continent of Africa. The story of the emancipation of Africa from the shackles of darkness cannot be written without mentioning his name.”