The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) has expressed deep shock at the death of veteran athletics coach, Tobias Igwe fondly called Toblow in track and field circle. Coach Toblow, according to his son, Daniel died after suffering from high blood pressure and partial stroke. “It is sad to announce the passing on of great Coach Igwe also known as Toblow. He died after suffering from high blood pressure and partial stroke,” read a statement signed by his son. AFN’s acting president, Olamide George expressed shock at the passing of a man who many have credited with the successes recorded by Nigeria in the 1980s and 1990s. “This is devastating. We have lost a true transformer of talent. The late coach was linked with many of the athletes who brought honour to Nigeria in the 1980s and 1990s. It is on record he led the first Nigerian team to the IAAF World Junior Championships in Athens, Greece in 1986 to ninth position on the medals table with Nigeria emerging world champions in the women’s 100m (Tina Iheagwan) and 200m (Falilat Ogunkoya),” said George. The AFN acting president revealed that the AFN has contacted the family of late coach the late Toblow. “Our condolences to the family of the late Coach Igwe. You’re in our thoughts and prayers and we are here for whatever you need.” George revealed the board of the federation would meet in the new year to discuss the best way to honour the late coach. “It is the least we can do as a federation. We were discussing about how to honour him for his selfless service to Nigeria about a forthnight ago not knowing death was lurking around to take the great Toblow away from us.” Toblow was credited with discovering such iconic athletes as double Olympics bronze medallist, Mary Onyali, the Ezinwa brothers (Osmond and Davidson), middle distance runner, Tony Osheku, quartermilers Airat Bakare and Sunday Uti, the first Nigerian to run a sub-45 seconds in the 400m. He also converted reigning Nigerian 400m hurdles record holder and 1987 IAAF World Championships finalist, Henry Amike from handball to track and field and discovered and groomed Tina Iheagwan to become the first Nigerian world champion in track and field.