 Loyalists of immediate past Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari have challenged Governor Bello Matawalle to prove his allegation against his predecessor or forever remain silent.
They expressed this at a press conference, addresed by its Convener, Comrade Isah Haruna Gusau in Kaduna on Friday.
The group warned that, it should be the last time, the governor should make Dr. Abdul’aziz Yari the target of his ‘dumbfounded, narrow and shallow baseless accusations’ and rather focus on governance.
According to him, “well meaning citizens will forever stand resolute against impunity and dictatorial tendencies of self appointed demigods.
“As law abiding citizens and loyalist of his Excellency, the former governor, we challenge Governor Bello Matawalle to be bold enough to substantiate his allegation of the involvement of Dr. Abdul’aziz Yari in promoting insecurity or keep quiet forever,” it stated.
The group pointed out that the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Chapter 4 subsection 41 clearly states that ‘every citizen of Nigeria is entitled to move freely throughout Nigeria and to reside in any part thereof, and no citizen of Nigeria should be expelled from Nigeria or refused entry thereby or exit therefrom,’ with this, the sacred constitution has left no one in doubt that the laws of our land guarantee the right to movement of law abiding citizens. “It is on record that His Excellency Dr. Abdul’aziz Yari served Zamfara State with honesty, diligence, accountability and fear of God and the records are there in public domain for everyone to see.
“The security challenges experienced during his stint as the governor of the state are not peculiar to Zamfara State, but almost in every state and across the world. There is always one security challenge or the other to contend with.
“Our mentor, the former Governor is a well established grassroots politician and will always come to Zamfara State on invitation or free will as is backed by the constitution to hold political meetings and engagements,” the group said.
They further said that the political structures were already being rejuvenated across board to take over from the temporal PDP leadership.
“This is why it becomes important for Governor Matawalle to focus on governance and demonstrate his capacity if at all he has any,” the group said.