The Managing Director of TILT Group of Company Mr Habeeb Okunola has emerged winner of the ‘Excellence in Business Leadership and Community Development’ award at the Pan African Humanitarian Summit and Awards (PAHSA) in Abu Dhabi. The coveted accolade awarded by Pan African Leadership and Entrepreneurship Development Center (PALDEC) recognised Okunola as a frontline business leader of international repute committed to fostering grassroots development in underserved communities in Africa. The award category is for the most daring and futuristic-inclined business leaders with measurable achievements in humanitarian interventions and socio-economic development. Speaking through his associate – Tobi Onile-Ere at the PAHSA ceremony, Okunola attributed the strides to his team at TILT Group of companies. “I am humbled to be receiving the 2019 Excellence in Business Leadership and Community Development award and will also like to recognise my colleagues at TILT Group of companies for their commitment towards ensuring the conglomerate remains a leader in the industries we serve; as well as empowering communities where we work to consolidate effort of the government in ensuring social justice. “All my colleagues at TILT Group share the credit for this award; most especially the Chairman of the Group – Alhaji Musa Halilu-Ahmed for his invaluable contributions and direction,” he said. Some past recipients of the Pan African Humanitarian Summit and awards are President of Tanzania – H.E Dr. John Magufuli, Former President of Ghana – H.E John Agyekum Kufuor, Managing Partner of Ethiopian Airline & Head of Transaction Advisory – Mr Zemedeneh Negatu, Executive Chairman IPP Media Group-Tanzania – Dr. Reginald Mengi, Director General National Broadcasting Commission, Nigeria – Mr Is’haq Modibbo Kawu, amongst others. The summit and award dinner was attended by global changemakers, international players in the different sectors from across the globe, captains of industry, and members of the diplomatic community.