 People who have suffered from some form of mental health problems and have been treated need the continuous love, care and support of family and friends so that they do not relapse into previous or worse states of health. This was disclosed by the Special Assistant on Non-Governmental Organisations to the First Lady, Mr. Wole Aboderin, during the international conference on mental health organized by the Secure-D-Future International Initiative in Abuja. According to him, “Mental Health is something easily pushed aside. However, we must note that this is something that can happen to anyone. Just as we all have physical health, it is important to be aware of our mental wellbeing. In the same way we look after our physical health, it is the same way we must look after our mental health. “We have people that need our acceptance given their health experiences and general ordeal. We also have those that require reintegration given their care and treatment, and the fact that they now need to get back into society. “We need to ensure that our friends, family members or people we have cared for or people that have suffered mental health problems, have a guaranteed and secured future so that they do not relapse”. He explained that it takes the collective efforts, initiatives and actions of everyone – mental health professionals, family members, communities, and friends, to help bring back a person to their right minds and to help re-integrate them into a life of mental wellbeing. “Why do we have to engage the subject of mental health? This is because we have people who are suffering from mental health issues. These people need our help. These people need professional engagement. These people when they get better, they need to be re-united with us in our communities. “The future of vulnerable groups of people must be assured. Their potential must be optimised. women, youth and children are a critical factor of our future. “We embrace this mental wellbeing initiative in the same vein as our mission in FUTURE ASSURED,” he added. 