 Oyo State House of Assembly yesterday read the names of the chairmanship nominees for the 33 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and 35 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of the state, as sent to it by Governor Seyi Makinde. The names were read at an emergency plenary, presided over by the Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin. The emergency plenary, which ended at exactly 6pm, was initially slated for 12pm, but did not start until around 5:35pm with many of the members of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) absent. The members were during the session attending the 70th birthday ceremony of former governor Abiola Ajimobi. While reading the letter under “Message From the Executive” on the day’s Order Paper, Speaker Ogundoyin noted that it was directed to the lawmakers for consideration and screening for the chairmanship positions across the council areas by the governor, who described them as “worthy of the appointment.” Prior to reading the names, the Speaker, however, added that presenting the names before the lawmakers did not translate to their tacit endorsement but that the nominees would still be screened by the relevant house committee. According to the Speaker, the letter dated December 11, 2019 was signed by the Secretary to the State Government. Some of the names of the nominees include: Adedigba Jimoh (Akinyele West), Wahab Kareem (Orire North), Bankole Lydia (Orire Central), Fatai Okunlola (Oyo South West) and Arowosaye Saheed (Oyo East). Others are Omorinde Sharafadeen (Saki West), Muda Busari (Saki East), Moruf Gbadamosi (Surulere), Adediran Sulaimon (Irepo, Kishi) and Saka Fashola (Iddo). The speaker, however, after reading the names, directed all the nominees to appear before the House Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters on Tuesday (today), while also directing the committee to submit its report on Wednesday for consideration and possible approval by the lawmakers. The plenary held amidst tight security with many stakeholders, including observers and party supporters, shut out of the Chamber while the plenary lasted.