There is something exotic about people who move beyond their comfort zone while searching for love. Sometimes it is love that travels several miles across rivers, mountains, valleys and even in the desert to find such people. Whatever the case may be, inter-ethnic and mixed marriages have their own flavour that only those who are in can experience. This week, we shall be spotlighting such people. We are talking about Nigerian celebrities or newsmakers married to foreigners. Kate Henshaw Kate Henshaw is one of Nigeria’s most celebrated thespians who have wormed themselves into the hearts of many Nigerians by their good performances. She got married to British ex-husband, Roderick James Nuttal, in 2000, but they broke up in 2011.  Regina Askia-Williams & Rudolph ‘Rudy’ Williams US-based ex-model and actress, Regina Askia-Williams, wears many hats. The actress is also a registered nurse (RN) in the US, healthcare, education al activist, television producer, writer and public speaker. Known as Regina Askia in her days as one of the country’s top models, she got married to American Rudolph ‘Rudy’ Williams after her relocation. They have been together for almost two decades.  Ufuoma Ejenebor & Steven McDermott Model-turned-Nollywood Actress, Ufuoma Ejenebor, who hails from Delta State,Nigeria, and Steven got married in 2010, and are blessed with two adorable children.     Charly Boy & Lady Diane Charles Chukwuemeka Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy, aka Area Fada, may be known for his controversial  views and bizzare outfits; but not many know that the maverick ente rtainer and activist is married to  an American. They solemnised their marriage last year, after 40 years of being together  Oluchi  & Lucas Orlandi Popular Nigerian international super model, Oluchi Orlandi, who  won the M-Net  Face of Africa in 1998, has been married to her equally popular Italian fashion designer husband, Luca Orlandi, since August 2005.They have two sons.    Uche Jombo & Kenny Rodriguez Popularly Nollywood actress, screenwriter and film producer, Uche Jombo, got married to her America-based, Puerto Rican-born husband, Kenny Rodriguez, in a low-key wedding that took place on May 16, 2012 on the shores of Puerto Rico. And they have a son.  Anita Hogan-Mak & Ted Mak Anita Hogan, Nigerian actress and former Gulder Ultimate Search contestant and Ted Mark got married 2006 in Ikoyi, Lagos. They are blessed with two children; Sadly, Anita recently lost her Dutch husband to the cold hands of death after a brief illness in August, this year.    Karen Igho & Jaroslav Rakos Nigerian actress, model, media personality and the winner of the 2011 Big brother Africa, Karen Igho, married Czech Republican citizen, Jaroslav Rakos in 2014. They have two kids together.       Susan Peters & Koen Croon Nollywood actress, model, interior designer and spa owner, Susan Peters, got married to her Dutch fiancé, Koen Croon in Lagos in October 10, 2015.   Ik & Sonia Morales Ikechukwu Mitchel Ogbonna, professionally known as IK Ogbonna, is a Nigerian film maker, actor and model. Ik Ogbonna got married to a Columbian beauty, Sonia Morales, on June 29, 2015 in Belgrade. They divorced in 2019.They have a child together.     Chioma & Andrew Toplis Chioma Elizabeth Toplis , popularly known as Chioma Toplis, is married to UK-born Engr. Andrew Toplis and they are blessed with three children together.      Ashionye Michelle & Carl Raccah Nollywood actress and singer, Ashionye Ugboh-Raccah, got married on August 2009 to an Italian man, Carl Raccah, and their union is blessed with two children.