Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri Following the recent arrest of some youths of Nekede community who allegedly invaded Imo state zoological garden to lay claim on the zoo forest, Imo State government has advised the community to remain calm and wait for outcome of police investigation. Special Adviser on Security to Governor Emeka Ihedioha, Mr Ray Nkemdirim gave the advice in an interview with newsmen in Owerri. Recall that a security Joint Tax-Force led by Monitoring Unit of the Imo police command had arrested some youths of Nekede Community on Friday when they allegedly invaded Imo state Zoological Garden and Wildlife Park with bulldozers. The invaders laid siege to the forest inside the zoo and allegedly destroyed some animal equipment, while also laying claim to part of the forest. Imo government has been in a long time running battle with the community over ownership of the forest. Some community sources claimed that a court of competent jurisdiction had ceded part of the forest to the zoo, while Imo government claimed that such judgment was unknown to it. But, the security adviser urged the community not to do anything that could lead to breach of peace in the area. He said the police were currently investigating the matter and they must be allowed to do their job diligently. “It is the duty of police to mediate into issues that can lead to bridge of peace. “I can confirm to you that some youths who allegedly invaded the zoo were arrested but we are following due process in resolving the matter so that all parties will be happy”, he said. Meanwhile, the development has generated wide criticism against the action of the community. A lover of nature who visited the zoo on Sunday, Mr. Jude Ozurumba criticized the action of the community and said such action could elude the zoo the big dream Governor Emeka Ihedioha has for the facility. He said government must not allow the selfish intentions of the community to prevail over the general interest of the people. “This is the only surviving zoo in the South-East and the community wants to destroy it and government has not taken any firm decision on the matter. “The zoo and the forest are both protected by the law of Eastern Nigeria. Besides, government is the owner of all the lands as prescribed by the land use act,” he said.