Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  The suspension of the proposed banning of male and female on the same tricycle in Kano was greeted with jubilation in the ancient commercial city on Tuesday. The Nation reports that Kano state Government suspended the implementation of the proposed ban, following public outcry and outright rejection. It should be recalled that Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje had last week announced the plan through Commander General of Hisba Board, Harun Ibn-Sina at a function held at Bayero University Kano to effect the law from January 2020 A source from the government informed The Nation that the Governor has jettisoned the implementation of the law due to the controversy it has been generating and to safeguard the implementation from degenerating into crisis. It was gathered that Governor Ganduje had gone into wide consultations and extensive deliberation with top government officials on their views on how to implement the law effective from January 1st,2020. It was further gathered that he was advised not to implement the law nor make any statement about it considering the volatility of the situation on ground. ‘’You see we had to weight the option of effecting the law or otherwise. However, considering the feelers we are getting, it may lead to break down of law and order. Because how would those that would enforce the law differentiate a married man and his wife in a tricycle or otherwise, ‘’ ‘’Similarly, we viewed it that the law is not new since it has been in existence since the Ibrahim Shekarau administration just that we had wanted to dust it from the shelve for enforcement. So the governor was convinced in the discussions to look the other way and the issue would die a natural death.’’ Another source, who confided with this reporter, said that “it could be the overzealousness of the Hisbah Board, DG’s unpopular perception, which he described as dead on arrival. However, at the time of filing in this report,the government is yet to confirm the suspension of ban, while several efforts to get the views of the Chief Secretary Press to the Governor, Mallam Abba Auwal was not successful.