  Federal and state governments in the country have been accused by the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) of ignoring provisions of the constitution in respect of extending cost of living increase to pensioners for almost 10 years. Speaking in Abuja, the President of NUP, Dr. Abel Afolayan, stated: “The pain for us as Nigerian pensioners is non-compliance with constitutional provision which says that pension should be reviewed every five years or whenever workers’ wages are reviewed or whichever comes first.” According to NUP, the constitutional provision makes it mandatory for both federal and state governments to comply with this provision. But the last time there was review of wages was in 2010 and increases that should have come to pensioners have not been paid. Similarly, no review was done in 2015 while there is no sign that any review in response to inflation is in the offing for 2020, with the result that pensioners have not received any increase to cover effect of inflation for the past 10 years. In addition, pensioners in many states have not been paid their pensions because of intermittent and seemingly unending verification of status of pensioners. Such states, until recently, include Borno and Imo which, under new governors since May, have started  to receive arrears of pensions. For too many decades, pensioners during the old government-funded pension system, and since the contributory pension scheme have suffered a lot of indignities: periodic non-payment or delayed payment of pension benefits, subjecting of pensioners to gruelling verification exercises that take them out of their states of residence, and the current denial of cost of inflation to pensioners, by both federal and state agencies. It is uncharitable for any level of government and private sector to treat pensioners this way, after such pensioners had devoted their productive years to the country’s service. Refusing to review wages periodically as stipulated by law, and keeping pensioners on stagnant benefits for one decade constitute additional burden for them at a time that they are most vulnerable.  This was one of the ‘business-as-usual practices’ that Buhari’s government of change promised in 2015 to end, and there is no reason why such regressive practice should continue, especially under a government that had made advances more than other governments about formalising social security assistance to vulnerable sectors of the population, like school children and destitute adults. We, therefore, urge the federal and state governments to, as a matter of urgency, ensure that the law in respect of periodic reviews of pension benefits are carried out to the letter and whatever is due to pensioners paid to them as and when due. It is a universal policy and practice to add cost of living allowance to pension benefits the same time it is given to individuals still in employment. Ignoring to review salaries and pensions to offset cost of inflation is tantamount to reducing such income, especially of people who have gone past their productive years. While congratulating governors of states that have embarked on restoring the confidence of pensioners, we call on the president and all governors to find ways of protecting the pension system from damages arising from whims of individual  federal agencies and governors. It is a no brainer that post-retirement years put more demands on the income of pensioners, for obvious reasons. It is unfair for any level of government to create additional obstacles for people who are already part of the most enervated segments of the population.