 If the agric sector is properly structured, it holds the greatest potential for job and wealth creation, premier African digital payment platform for every sector, Cellulant Corporation said on Monday in Lagos. Its Co-Chief Executive Officer, Bolaji Akinboro, who spoke at the firm’s inaugural partners’ summit at Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos, said agriculture is enough to create wealth for Nigerians but needs to be properly structured for its potentials to be fully realised. The theme of the forum was: Technology for Transformation: Connecting Everyone to Nigeria’s $50billion Agribusiness Opportunity & Creating Jobs For Africa’s Youth. In his presentation titled: ‘From Farm to Fork: Transforming the Agribusiness in Nigeria Through Technology-What does the Future Hold’, Akinboro said the country’s agric-value chain needed to be fixed to enjoy the immense riches in the sector. According to him, consumption of food, the end product of most agricultural activities in the country is worth about $100million daily and between$36 billion and $50 billion annually, opening up a stream of opportunity in under-explored areas of agric logistics, food processing and tailored payment systems. He also highlighted Cellulant’s strides in improving the agriculture value chain with its payment platform, Tingg and Agrikore, an innovative platform built on blockchain technology that has simplified and connected all players in the agriculture sector. Akinboro said: “We are not just a fintech company; we have the technology and operations via Agrikore. When you combine technology and operations, you can change the world. We are providing technology that makes life better for everyone; Nigerians and Africans. We are the ones that can bring in the change. “Technology is a critical enabler to solve many of the challenges experienced in the Agric sector. In the last 15 years, Cellulant has actively contributed to connecting all key stakeholders in the value chain, who in the past never interacted with each other.