By Godstime Ukah  SIR: Over the years, we have taken it up as a norm in various parts of the world to dig up and draft out both what we want and what we don’t, our goals and target for a new year. This is termed, “new year resolution”. This is often penned down or verbally expressed before the new year. Some persons even submit a copy of their resolution to their clergy. Just like having a dream is nothing without pursuit, a new year resolution is absolutely nothing if not worked on. People have been deceived to believe that having a resolution is what makes the year special. Your year will remain the same if you do not go beyond just setting goals and writing down new year resolutions. There would not be any difference between this year and the next. It is the same night and day and 24 hours per day. The only difference would be what you do with the year. However, the results can be different if you consider the three tips below for a better year. First, build a stronger network. Sometimes, what you need to see the mountain is to climb the shoulders of a giant. Sometimes, one recommendation, one partnership, one idea pursued by two people is all it takes. Many of today’s biggest businesses have co-founders at the helm. The creators of Google, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, readily comes to mind whenever networking or partnership is in view. Again, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger co-founded Instagram before Facebook sent out a fat pay cheque. Bill Gates and Paul Allen co-founded Microsoft.  Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak were the foundation of Apple. Even Facebook did not become a big brand until Mark Zuckerberg brought in people. Warren Buffet shared a long-term partnership with Charlie Munger for his success. What you need at some point is collaboration. Second, make it a priority to create value. In your relationship, business, office and other dealings, ensure that you create value. Your relevance is tied to how much value you create. If value creation is not part of your resolution, you are wrong. Third, shoot for the moon. The new year will be owned by those who shoot for the moon. The big players, as usual, will dominate the year again. It is either you turn out for the year as a major player or you stay indoors. Your vision should be able to stretch you. If it is too simple or too easy to achieve, you will probably remain average. Stop using your big brain to churn out small dreams only. Go for the big game. There is room for everyone to become 10 times better, bigger and mightier.  Have a prosperous new year!  