The Mother of Christ Specialist Hospital, Enugu, has been turned to a pilgrimage ground as residents of the city throng to the hospital to catch a glimpse of newly delivered set of quadruplets. Most of the residents of the metropolis that visited came to witness the testimony and tap from the uncommon miracle and natural delivery of the quadruplets. Speaking to newsmen that visited the hospital on Saturday, the father of the babies, Mr Cajetan Adiele, said that the conception and delivery of the bouncing set was a “miracle”. Adiele, who is aide to the Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Chief Edward Ubosi, said that they were conceived and delivered naturally without any artificial pregnancy or delivery treatment or process attached to it. “It is a thing of great joy that my wife just delivered a set of quadruplets and we got wedded on Oct. 20, 2018. “To the grace of God on Nov. 6, my wife delivered the set of quadruplets and they are three girls and a boy. “Actually the pregnancy was a miracle from God; when she initially got pregnant after few days she started having abdominal pains and when we carried out pregnancy test it was positive. “But when we went for scan, the scan could not read pregnancy. “After two days, the doctors through scan confirmed a growth in her abdomen that needed to be removed through a major operation. The major surgery was done. “After the surgery, two weeks we were discharged from the hospital and after two days, she started having symptoms of vomiting (pregnancy). “We were asked to go for pregnancy test again and we went and it was still positive for pregnancy. “The doctors could not even believe that the pregnancy stayed after the major abdominal surgery and they asked us to go for pregnancy scan. “This time, the scan read that she was actually pregnant and she was carrying a set of quadruplets,” he said. Adiele told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that for almost nine months his wife and had been visiting the hospital as their second home until Nov. 6, when God in His grace made his wife to deliver without hitch. He noted that he was overwhelmed with joy as the “Good Lord that brought them to life after their strenuous journey to earth will definitely provide what will sustain them”. “However, the family will welcome any assistance from any individual, group and corporate organisation that wants to share in our testimony and joy,” he said. The mother of the quadruplets, Mr Blessing Adiele, said that they are miracle babies in that they passed through a lot of discomfort in their journey to earth especially surviving a major surgery and multiple scan. “I am grateful to God and so happy for this rare blessing to me and my family which many people are looking for seriously. I pray for other women looking for the fruit of the womb that God Almighty will grant them their heart desires,” she said. A doctor on duty, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the babies had been under close supervision for a month now and they are “very healthy and acclimatising to the weather condition. They are bouncing, healthy and well-fed and soon they will be discharged from the hospital,” he said.