Sokoto State House of Assembly Speaker Aminu Manya Achida at the weekend restated his loyalty and that of the other 15 lawmakers representing the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state’s legislature to the party. Acording to Manya: “My loyalty and that of my colleagues to the party in the state remains unshaken.” He spoke when he led 15 other APC lawmakers in the state assembly on a visit to the party’s secretariat in the state amid ovation by supporters of the party. The Speaker, who stressed the need for APC faithful in the state to have confidence over the mandate given them, also urged party members to ignore rumour that tend to send wrong signals about the party, saying: “We are bound by our party’s common ideals in the state assembly. We are organised with committed spirit for the unity and strength of APC in the state. “I wish to also point out that people should learn to separate our party’s cause and official responsibility in governance. “We are elected to serve the entire people of Sokoto State and we will continue to do so with respect to the party. Our bond of fraternity with the party leadership in the state remains impeccable. “We need to forge ahead and not to dwell on past happenings. All of us (16) elected on the APC platform are on the same page on issues and matters of legislation as it affects our party and the state as a whole. “We are for the party and will continue to strengthen the tempo of its popularity, maturity and unity. We are thankful to our members for their resilience and support.” Earlier, the Majority Leader, Hon. Muhammad Bello Isah Ambarura, said APC lawmakers had been working in unity and in cognisance of the party. According to him: “We are organised and proud of our party to which we owe allegiance politically. “Our loyalty to the party is paramount and will keep doing the needful based on mutual understanding in the discharge of our functions for the development of the state.” Chairman of the party, Alhaji Sadiq Isah Achida, who received the lawmakers, described the visit as historic and monumental to the party’s unity and strength. According to Achida, who was in company with other executive members of the party in the state: “This visit is a solidarity coming by the Speaker and his colleagues. It shows that we have been relating well on matters important to the party, especially on legislation. “We are not advising you to fight the government, but do the right thing in the interest of the state. Where there is derailment, we will not advise you to compromise.” The party chairman, however, advised the lawmakers to routinely be in touch with their constituents to further cement good relationship and support them where and when necessary. 