 Prominent church leaders on Saturday paid glowing tributes to renowned German preacher, Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke, who died at 79. Bonnke, the founder of Christ For All Nations (CFAN) organised many mass crusades across major cities in Nigeria for over 30 years. His last crusade in Africa, which he claimed God specially instructed him to hold in Lagos, was in 2017 on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN) Rev. Samson Ayokunle, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media & Communications, Pastor Bayo Oladeji, described Bonnke as “one of the greatest generals of the gospel of eternal salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ on earth.” “CAN and the entire Christian communities in Nigeria join the rest of Christians all over the world to mourn this fiery preacher and teacher of the Gospel and mentor to several evangelical leaders all around the world today. “Reinhard Bonnke has reached Africa and countries of the world through his ministry called Christ For All Nations preaching the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ through which millions of souls were saved into the Kingdom of God or received their healings,” the CAN president stated. Chairman of the 2017 Crusade Planning Committee, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, told our correspondent last night that Bonnke finished strong and well. “He had an undying passion for Christ and souls. Since his first crusade in 1985 in Lagos, he has never looked back. He would do anything to win souls for God. “He lived well. The Lord sent him with a message which he delivered so well and hard. He was easily the greatest ever crusader in Africa. “He finished well to the glory of God because he was faithful to the calling. I had a close encounter with him in 2017 when he ended his public preaching ministry in Lagos. “He did great for his generation. We can only rejoice he is gone to rest. Until Jesus comes, his marks remain indelible in global evangelism, especially in Africa,” Bamgbola, who is the chairman Lagos chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), said. General Overseer of Omega Power Ministry (OPM) Auchi, Edo State, Apostle Johnson Suleman, praised Bonnke’s passion for radical evangelism. “You affected me so much with your radical passion for evangelism. You finished your assignment and in your lifetime handed over to your successor. Rest in peace.May we also finish well..goodnight sir,” he tweeted. President of Abraham Evangelistic Ministries (AEM), Bishop Abraham Olaleye, who was the chairman of the mobilization committee for the 2017 crusade, described the deceased as a man with “unquenchable fire for God and souls.” “He had a passion for souls that he will never trade for anything. He saw the vision of a blood-washed Africa, which he struck to for years. “He preached from his heart. If there was anything I learnt from him, it is how not to mortgage the gospel. He had no private jet to his name or ministry despite the size of his works. “He had to borrow the airplane of Kenneth Copeland to come in 2017 in frail body. He was a remarkable preacher who will be greatly missed,” Olaleye stated.