The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) has condemned and expressed dismay over the worsening state of security in the country, which in recent times has seen doctors and innocent citizens being attacked, robbed, kidnapped and murdered in the line of duty. The President of the NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile, in a press briefing yesterday in Abuja, strongly condemned the rising spates of insecurity and urged the federal and states government to rise to the occasion to assuage this scary trend, as our doctors are considering relocating outside the country. According to him, “The National Executive Council (NEC) expressed dismay with the worsening state of security in the country and the continued incarceration of two medical doctors – Dr. Audu Sule and Dr. Sunday Oduniyi, in Taraba state by kidnappers. “We also condemned in strong terms the gruesome murder of Dr. Jerome Boluwaji Elutayo Elusiyan, a Professor of Paediatrics and Child Health at Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife and the Chairman Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC), Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife on his way back to Ile-Ife from Ekpoma as an external examiner for Medical Students examination at Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, Edo State. “The NEC further expresses its disappointment with the failure of both Federal and State Governments to effectively check security lapses and the ravaging incidence of banditry, armed robbery, kidnappings and endless killings of innocent Nigerians. “It is unfortunate that a lot of people have the feeling that doctors are very rich. Doctors are like any other Nigerian and all we do is make sure we save lives; doctors are not rich. Some of the miscreants believe that they will get a lot of money if we are being targeted. “Unfortunately also, our job opens us up to such attacks because we have to work round the clock, especially in the dead of the night. That is why we are calling on the government to ensure that security improves. “We are telling the government that we have almost exhausted all our patience and doctors are on the verge of taking action that may not be the best to the generality of Nigerians if we are not adequately secured in discharging our duties. We also commiserate with other Nigerians who are also victims of this dastardly act.” Dr. Faduyile, further said that the NEC of the NMA is convinced that Nigeria needs to improve more on increasing competences in specialized and super specialized areas of medicine like the treatment of cancer, renal transplant, open heart surgery, liver transplant, congenital anomaly, hand surgery, etc., noting that there is need for neurosurgeons in the country. Other highlights of the NEC meeting was the award given to the Executive Governor of Kano state for his remarkable strides and outstanding performance in improving healthcare delivery in his state, having allocated 16 per cent of his budget to health. The NEC affirmed the confidence of the NMA in the ability of Dr. Osahon Enabulele, President of the Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA), to surpass past records in the administration of the CMA and pledged to accord him the needed support to fly the flag of the continent and the CMA to an amiable height.