Edwin Brown Jnr. is the CEO of Servo Investments. Apart from being an entrepreneur, he is passionate about things that help to secure and enhance the growth and development of Africa, especially Nigeria. One thing that caught his attention recently is the increase in fuel tank fires and explosion across the country. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, he talks about the sad increase in tank fires, challenges and how he worked on an option called Explocontrol. What motivated you to go into explosion control? We partnered with Explocontrol to bring this technology that puts a stop to explosion from all sort of tanks, vessels, skid tanks, truck tanks and vessels tank farm and built-in tanks. When the technology was contracted solely to my company to distribute to Nigeria, the last thing we thought of was to advertise it to any extent. We had all participating parties sign that it doesn’t go out because of the security that comes with it. Some countries outside Africa use this for defence mechanism and they also use it to protect their pipelines. So, this isn’t information that should go out. But considering the fact that it has become more of a solution to the current epidemic, myself and my partners believe that it is time to let the public know we have tried to make an impact. But due to negligence exhibited by the government and private corporations, the solution has become nothing more than a dossier on a desk. We have taken this as far as NNPC, the (Oil Spill Description Agency) OSDRA, storage companies and to private corporation. We have also taken it to Lagos State government and quite a few agencies are aware of what it is about. But being impressed does not stop the fires. They know it is something the public would know about. When we do our presentation they know about our non-disclosures. But they have kept it on their desk and pretty much sitting on it. We are aware of the disasters mostly caused by these tanks carrying products on our roads. We have also heard of butane tanks burning homes and complexes. We’ve read the news of refineries catching fire. We also know that there are different bodies that promised to do something. In Nasarawa, sometime last year, there was a huge fire which motivated me to do something. What my partners and I have decided to do is to pursue a legislation and the government can legislate or pass a bill that all truck tanks, gas cylinder manufacturers, tank farms, petrol stations, other forms of petrol vehicles make use of this technology. Primarily, this would stop a lot of the disaster that is happening on the road. In the last month or so, we have had about four truck incidences, lives have been lost this year alone not to talk of 2018. Isn’t it easier to get the private sector to buy in, than government? We have also spoken to private sector. We have spoken to companies that are thinking of distributing downstream. They know of this and all they asked us to do was to submit a proposal, something that will catch their interest. I actually sat down with a company and they said ‘let’s discuss downstream, our refineries are not down yet, they are not.’ They are currently assembling their trucks in July this year. Their trucks were going through assembly and the perfect time to put in this technology is now. The technology lasts a lifetime. If you are able to put it in your trucks before your trucks start receiving products, then you spend less on insurance, save the road and your trucks. But since July, I haven’t heard a word from them. And this is a company that doesn’t start operating until April next year. Now, there is one company they said when they start, they would use the technology. But this is one company out of so many companies in the country. There is a manhole in every tank and every tank is divided into three different sections. So they go into the manhole and go the different sections, preventing it from oxidation, oil spillages and so on and so forth. It takes a day or two to do the installations. How did you get into this? Sometime last year, there was an explosion and when it happened I spoke with my partner in Iran and I asked him if they had a technology for this. They have a lot of technology and they bring in structural materials. So, a few days after he reached out and said his Spanish partners have something and he put us in contact with them. Then they called us for a demo in Spain and after that they gave us the sole right to bring it to Nigeria. So, we drafted an MOU which we signed. We then got an agent in Nigeria to pursue it for us, because, at that point, I was still working in my office in London. I hadn’t moved back to Nigeria and we partnered with a Nigerian company and they started pushing it for us. He tried his best. We sought out this technology and the lucky part is that we found something that could be of benefit. We are the generation that would grow up in this country. We don’t want to grow up in a country that is half burnt. It is only right to look at the problem and try to fix it. I also look at a number of things like the debris in the water, which is a completely different thing. But we have somewhat overlooked it. They have gadgets to sort this out, clear the waterbeds and make it safer. But we are not doing anything about it and it is sad. So, you can see that we have fire problems, water problems and they are not trying to fix any. What is the lifespan of the technology? A truck should burn or catch fire if for some reason the technology cannot contain the fire. Here, you can take out the technology and put in another tank because it doesn’t expire. It doesn’t corrupt the product inside the tank. It doesn’t corrode, it doesn’t rust. The Chinese try to replicate this technology and lives were lost. Is it also available for domestic use? Yes, we have butane tanks and we can also put in the tanks for people that cook with gas. For cars, they actually come in little pellet forms and you can put two or three in your car. If you car is lit up, it isn’t going to explode. You can also use it to build houses. There is also a method where you put it in your walls and the fire would be contained. Is this something that is affordable? Yes, those we presented it to did ask the same question. I would say that it cost less than half the price to buy a new tank or maintaining the tank. I am not going to go into the figures. It sure costs less to replace a tank that burns. But if you put this into your tank, it is secure for life. If anything happens, then it is purely a mechanical thing. If your truck has a problem or you didn’t properly fix your tank farms, it is cheaper to use this product than to replace damaged goods. If 33 thousand litres is in the tank and if one tank carrying a full product explodes, you know how much a litre goes for and if we do the mathematics you have an idea of what one tank has lost. You can now add that to the number of lives that are lost and the fact that there are usually no forms of compensation for victims. What do you want the government to do about the sector? We want government to pass a law; to enforce a law stating that all oil companies with tanks in commercial areas should have the technology in them for the safety and the protection of products. Safety is the most important thing. If your negligence leads you to the path of loss, that doesn’t concern us. If you decide not to protect your tanker and the products spill, we are more concerned about the safety of Nigerian citizens on the road. With the product in the tank, even if there is a dent or hole, you can wield the tank with fire and the product would still be inside as long as that technology is there. It is like a bullet proof, if I could call it that What are you passionate about?  Was this what you always wanted to do? I actually went abroad to study law. Along the line, I changed and decided to study political science. I think this actually goes in line with political science in a way. What is going on has a lot to do with policy and it is important for us to be involved. The fact that I am taking it to government has opened my eyes to a number of things. I want to fight for the people and I think I am still fighting for the people in a way. How long does it take to produce the technology? We manufacture abroad and then we ship it in and if they want we can set up the plant here. We have the raw materials ready, we have the machines ready. This space we are in can take about twenty machines and they would work round the clock. They would actually produce as much as possible and there’s nothing like we can’t meet their demands. We would over meet their demands and have a warehouse full of mesh, working twenty-four hours and have products that can fill a thousand trucks. How long does it take to fix it on the truck? It takes a day or two. It also depends on the state of the tanker, if they have taken it for serving. Even if there is a little in it, it goes inside as you fit it. Even if they put this into a bad tanker, it would still protect the product. If they are able to take away the bad tankers from the road, with no form of security for their products or people on the road, then they should be able to put the technology in the tanker. Here, you know your tanker is bad but sure that your product is safe. Either way, they have nothing to lose. As I said, if you put it in the tanker and something goes wrong, we can take it out for you and put it in a new tanker. It’s best to put the device when it is empty.