 IMO State Governor Emeka Ihedioha’s victory at the Court of Appeal on November 19 reinforced his victory at the Imo Governorship Election Tribunal on September 20.  A report had said news of Ihedioha’s victory at the tribunal was greeted with “massive jubilation.” According to Prof Francis Otonta, the returning officer of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) who announced the result of the Imo governorship election on March 12, Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a former deputy speaker of the Federal House of Representatives, won in 11 of the 27 local government areas, polling a total 273,404 votes to defeat Uche Nwosu of the Action Alliance (AA) who won in 10 LGAs and scored 190,364 votes. Ifeanyi Araraume of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), a former senator, had 114,676 votes and won in four LGAs. Fourth was Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a serving senator representing Imo west senatorial district, who polled 96,458 votes and won in two LGAs. Otonta had declared that Ihedioha, “having satisfied all the requirements of the law and scored the highest number of votes”  “won the election and is hereby returned.” Judgements by the governorship tribunal and the Appeal Court upheld Ihedioha’s election. The appellants, Nwosu, Araraume and Uzodinma had asked   the appellate court to void Ihedioha’s election on the grounds that he did not obtain the constitutional one quarter of the votes in at least two-thirds of the 27 local government areas of the state, in line with Section 179 of the Constitution. This is what happened at the Appeal Court: “ In a unanimous judgment, the five -man panel presided by Justice Oyebisi Omoyele dismissed the appeal by Action Alliance and its candidate, Uche Nwosu for lack of merit and upheld the judgment of the lower tribunal… “The panel upheld the judgment of the lower tribunal adding that the assessment of the tribunal was thorough and resolved the appeal against the appellants. “In Sen. Hope Uzodinma’s appeal, there was a dissenting judgment of ratio 4:1 “Four members agreed that the appeal lacks merit… while a member saw merit in the appeal and said that the judgment of the lower court be set aside… “In Ifeanyi Araraume’s appeal, the appeal was also dismissed for inability of the appellants to prove their allegations against the respondents. The panel affirmed the judgment of the lower tribunal…” This is what happened at the tribunal: “The three-member panel of the tribunal had in a unanimous decision… held that Ihedioha was lawfully declared winner of the governorship election by INEC. “The panel chaired by Justice Malami Dongondaji, had in the judgment dismissed Araraume, Nwosu and Uzodinma’s petitions for lacking in merit on the grounds that they failed to prove allegations made in their petitions… “The petitioners also alleged substantial non compliance with the Electoral Act and Guidelines, including other irregularities. “The tribunal in its judgment held that the case of the petitioners was unmeritorious because they failed to call relevant witnesses and that evidence of witnesses called was based on hearsay. “The tribunal in addition rejected documents tendered by the petitioners in support of their claims on the grounds that those who led evidence in the documents were not the makers of the documents.” Ultimately, the Supreme Court is expected to give a final judgement on the matter. The judgements of the tribunal and the Appeal Court reflect the strength of Ihedioha’s case as well as the weakness of the appellants’ case. It is interesting that the appellants are involved in a joint effort against Ihedioha. So far, it has been a failed effort, and it may well end as a failed effort.  The reality is that power changed hands in Imo State, resulting in the pendulum effect. Governor Ihedioha wasn’t expected to continue on the path of former governor Rochas Okorocha of APC, even though it is said that government is a continuum. Indeed, the Ihedioha administration’s move to probe the Okorocha administration demonstrates discontinuity. It is curious that  the eight-member committee set up to investigate Okorocha’s performance in his two terms as governor between 2011 and 2019 is expected to “ascertain and document the locations of and balances on all bank accounts operated by Imo State government, its Ministries, Departments and Agencies as at May 29, 2019.” The investigative panel is also expected to ”review all financial transactions and where necessary, a forensic audit with a view to ascertaining sources of funds and the application of same;  review such   disbursements/applications of state resources to ascertain the propriety of charges levied on accounts, interest payment on loans and deposits where applicable, authorisation, etc; and review the operations of the Imo State Board of Internal Revenue (BIR) with a view to recommending appropriate strategies to reposition the agency for better performance and sustained growth and to conduct governance/financial reviews of key agencies of government with a view to documenting all revenues generated or subventions/allocations between 2011 -2019.” Perhaps the probe would show that the Okorocha administration had something to hide; perhaps not. Ihedioha’s inaugural speech on May 29 gave an insight into the need for a probe.  ”Pensioners are owed for over 77 months, accruing fifty-seven (57) billion naira in Pension liability alone,” he said.  ”Eight years of bad governance led to a mind-boggling decay of critical public infrastructure; a crippling debt burden without any meaningful infrastructural or institutional developments to show for such a humongous debt.” Ihedioha added: “In the light of recent revelations by interest groups, various institutions and agencies of state, many have asked what becomes of those who recklessly plundered our commonwealth. My answer is simple: They will be held accountable. While this administration will be forward looking and not embark on any witch-hunting, those who have held positions of authority must prepare to render account of their stewardship to the people because our resolve to hold their feet to the fire of probity and accountability is iron-clad.” There may well be good reasons for such investigation. Okorocha had displayed desperation to determine his successor. He had desperately wanted his son-in-law, Nwosu, to succeed him. Nwosu had defected to AA from APC after failing to get what he wanted.  In a display of crude godfatherism, Okorocha had shamelessly supported Nwosu who was the governorship candidate of a political party different from his in the March 9 governorship election. If things had worked out according to Okorocha’s plan and Nwosu had succeeded him, there would have been no question of a probe. Good governance implies exposing past bad governance, while carrying out the business of governance. The legal battle is a distraction the Ihedioha administration does not need.  The government needs to concentrate on developing Imo State. Ihedioha’s expected victory at the Supreme Court will help advance his development agenda for the state. 