by Adekunle Yusuf  Inlaks, a systems integrator in sub-Saharan Africa, has announced its support to the Hope for Sight Initiative (HSI) to assist in cataract surgeries for some visually-impaired persons in Ogun State. The announcement was made at a press conference on Victoria Island, in partnership with AOS Orwell and Eye Foundation Hospital, Lagos. Lakshmi Gopinathan, who envisioned the initiative, said she had done similar projects successfully in India, which gave her the inspiration that she could repeat the feat in Nigeria where 4.2 million people are either visually impaired or totally blind. While stating that vision is a right everyone deserves to have, Gopinathan described cataract as a clouding of the natural lenses in the eyes, which affects vision. She said her embarking on the mission stemmed from her childhood experience, having contended with optical challenges as a child. Although it is treatable, cataract is the leading cause of blindness in the country, especially in rural areas where there are low awareness levels and misconceptions about the disease and its treatment options. Speaking on behalf of Inlaks, the Group Head, Human Resources and Administration, Mrs. Adetokunbo Ayo-Ogunsanya, lauded the Hope for Sight Initiative and its goal of providing free surgeries to visually-impaired persons. She expressed her confidence in the Hope for Sight Initiative to change lives and reiterated Inlaks’ commitment to continuing the “noteworthy cause in line with its CSR drive.” Her words: “One of our core values at Inlaks is excellence, and we are happy to partner with AOS Orwell working with the best in the industry; Eye Foundation on this initiative. It is important to one’s existence to have vision and having the heart to give back to the society.” The Managing Director, AOS Orwell, Femi Omotayo, explained the direction of the organisation towards contributing to better quality of living not just for its employees, but for its external community members as well. He further explained that AOS Orwell has been involved in several other causes that give back to the community on a consistent note. “We are a compassionate organization with a heart for people. This is why we jumped on this initiative when we were approached. It is a laudable cause and we are proud to throw the full force of our financial weight behind this,” he said. In his address, Chief Business Development Officer, Eye Foundation, Adeyemi Oyewumi, expressed his confidence in the initiative, stating that the Eye Foundation has conducted thousands of free cataract surgeries and sensitisation programmes in the past. He further explained that the selection process of candidates would be purely based on a few key factors such as severity of the condition and willingness of those affected to participate in sensitisation and surgery programme among other underlying considerations. “Eye Foundation has some of the best and most experienced doctors for this magnitude of work. We have run series of sensitisation programmes and surgeries in the past and we are poised to deliver excellently and transparently on this as well. We are also very encouraged that organisations can recognize a need and go all out to meet that need,” he said.