 In a bid to enhance user experience on their bus-hailing mobile application, Plentwaka has upgraded their current mobile application to a higher version, Plentywaka2.0. This was revealed during a test driving and media briefing, in Lagos. Speaking at the event, Managing Director  and Co-founder of Plentwaka, Johnny Enagwolor, said  it started with 25 buses adding that  Plentywaka launched their bus-hailing service to “change the transportation landscape one bus at a time, provide a source of income for drivers and vehicle assistants, create a safe and convenient transport system for bus drivers, curb traffic congestion and pollution by encouraging public transportation and reducing the number of individual cars on our roads.”  Enagwolor disclosed that the organisation had achived its aim and more effort is still being put in by the Plentywaka team to ensure that riders continue to have safe, convenient and comfortable rides. ”Few months ago, we launched this beautiful idea called Plentywaka and as we speak today, it’s gradually becoming a big brand people can now boast of and associate with, and we’re happy with that. Few months ago, this was a dream that looked scary, and at some point, looked unachievable, but we are glad that as we speak today, on App store and Goggle Playstore alone, we have had about 15,000 downloads, and in the last two months, we have been able to move over 25,000 riders and that is growing. Traction is building. “Moreover, since launching Plentywaka in September with CMS to Ajah and Ajah to CMS being the pilot routes, Plentywaka has since added more routes to reach out to more road users. “We launched with the Ajah-CMS route, but we had to extend our route to Abraham Adesanya. So, right now, we are actually operating Abraham Adesanya to Ajah. We also launched another new route, which is Ahmadu Bello, Eko Hotel to Ademola Adetokunbo back to Ajah.” Adding that because of the growth the business has witnessed in the last few months, the 25 buses with which Plentywaka was launched can no longer meet the demands of riders along the various routes Plentywaka operates, Enagwolor said, “We are expanding and it has become pertinent for us to get more buses. “According to Enagwolor, the bus-hailing company used the 25 buses initially launched to test the model and set the standard. “People are used to the standard that we have set and actually enjoy the services we currently offer – the comfort, convenience and safety. We have had cases of people leaving wallets containing huge sums and expensive things on the bus and they were returned,” he said.