Athletes, coaches and teams that perform superbly on the big stage get all the accolades and the media mention for their feats. For 2019, some Nigerian stars and teams made their countrymen proud with their jaw-dropping performances, making headlines for the right reasons, writes ADEYINKA ADEDIPE. Anthony Joshua (AJ) This year will go down as one of the most dramatic for two-time undisputed world heavyweight champion, Anthony Oluwafemi Olaseni Joshua who suffered his first career defeat mid-year before reclaiming the titles on December 7.  For him, Christmas came early. The all-conquering Joshua had beaten the likes of Wladimir Klitschko, Dillian Whyte, Joseph and Alexander Povetkin and when Mexican-American Andy Ruiz jr accepted a fight a month to the June bout, as a last minute replacement for Jarrel Miller who tested positive to banned substance in the run up to the fight against Joshua, no one gave Ruiz a chance. Ruiz nicknamed the Destroyer, who had not fought for a while and had grown fat; saw it has an opportunity for another shot at the world title after losing to former WBO champion, Parker on December 10, 2016. He also had 21 knock outs before the fight but pundits and bookmakers were busy writing off the Mexican and did not envisage the shock that was awaiting the whole world. On fight night at Madison Square Garden, the bout went according to script in the first three rounds with Joshua knocking down Ruiz in the third round. But the Destroyer stormed back and punished Joshua in the next four rounds, surprisingly knocking him down four times before the referee stopped the fight in round seven to the amazement of stunned spectators.  What Joshua’s camp failed to realise before the fight was that Ruiz’s fast fists work wonders. The win is considered as one of the biggest upsets in the history of boxing. For his fans, especially in Britain and Nigeria, Joshua’s loss was not easy to fathom and they expressed belief that their champion would bounce back in the rematch. After an intense training camp, which saw most of his adversaries visiting his camp, especially Wladimir Klitschko, who he knocked out in their clash, Joshua was ready with the ‘new’ style he devised specially for the re-match. On the D-Day, a boisterous AJ came into the ring with his theme song – Fela Anikulapo Kuti”s water no get enemy – playing in the background. The heavyweight boxer sure had no enemies but he had to beat Ruiz. His career depended on the fight. A win will see him reclaim his titles and bounce back to reckoning while a defeat might confine him to the history books. He had no choice than to win and this he did in skillful fashion. He employed the style of late Mohammed Ali, a legend of the pugilist game. He ran around the ring scoring points with easy jabs when the opportunities presented themselves. He also avoided being hit by ducking any face-off with his opponent in the middle of the ring. Joshua opened a cut on the side of Ruiz’s right eye in round one and by round 10 it was clear he will win the fight on point if the fight went the distance. AJ saw off the last round in easy fashion regaining his titles and joining a small cluster of men including Ali, Lennox Lewis, Evander Holyfield, Mike Tyson and Floyd Patterson to have reclaimed the world heavyweight title. D’Tigress  The women national basketball team, the D’Tigress had an outstanding year and retained the Afrobasket title beating host Senegal 60-55 in the final in Dakar. The Nigerian team had defeated the Senegalese to claim the title two years ago in Mali and they (the Senegalese) were hoping for revenge in front of their home fans. But the Nigerian team had other ideas. They had dispatched all their group opponents in easy fashion and defeated Mali 79-58 in the semi final to set up an epic final game against the host who have also been in splendid form in the run up to the final. However, the Nigerian team had the better of the first half exchanges and led 32-24 at half time. They continued the good run in the third quarter but the Senegalese rallied to level score 54-54 with 2:24 secs to go but a composed Nigerian team scored six of the game’s last seven points to seal the famous win. Also in the year, the D’Tigress continued a push for a place in next year’s Olympic Games by booking a ticket to the final qualifying round next year in Serbia. In the pre-qualifying tournament in Senegal in November, the Nigerian team alongside Mozambique qualified for the Olympic Qualifying Tournament (OQT) in Serbia. D’Tigress are ranked first in Africa and 17th in the world in the latest FIBA ranking. D’Tigers  The men national basketball team, the D’ Tigers qualified for the Olympic Games for the third consecutive time after beating host in the last game of the FIBA World Cup, China. The Nigerians won one group game and proceeded in the tournament as they steeped up their hunt for an Olympic ticket. Though the game came fast and thick, the D’Tigers stayed calm to win the all-important game against China and book a place in the Tokyo Olympics. With the blend of youth and experience personified by Josh Okogie and Ike Diogu respectively, the Nigerian team is definitely in safe hands and is expected to spring surprises in Tokyo next year. Just like their female counterpart, the D’Tigers are first in Africa and 23rd in the world after climbing 10 places in the latest FIBA ranking. Victor Osimhen  Despite only joining Lille in the 2019/20 summer transfer window, Victor Osimhen’s fast start to life in France this season has put Europe’s elite on alert. The Nigeria International has scored 13 goals and racking up three assists in 24 games in the first half of the season. Scouted by Wolfsburg from the Ultimate Strikers Academy in Nigeria, he made his name when he went out on loan to Belgian club RSC Charleroi, where he scored 20 goals and assisted four times in 36 games for the Belgian outfit. The 20-year-old might not be in France much longer as a host of big clubs across Europe are all keeping tabs on him, although he has said he is happy to remain at the club this season in order to continue his development. Osimhen led the Golden Eaglets to a record fifth FIFA U-17 World Cup title in Chile in 2015, picking both the Golden Boot and Silver Ball awards along the way and made his debut for the Super Eagles in the third-place game against Tunisia in the 2019 AFCON tournament in Egypt. Osimhen has scored four times in five caps for Nigeria, including three goals in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Amaju Pinnick Nigeria was the biggest loser in the Confederation of African Football (CAF) politics when Nigeria Football Federation President, Amaju Pinnick was removed from his role as the First Vice President of the CAF in July and was replaced by South Africa’s Danny Jordaan. He became the First Vice President of the Confederation of African Football on September 2018, replacing Kwesi Nyantakyi. However despite not being re-elected, the NFF boss remains on the Executive Committee. No reason was given for his removal by CAF President Ahmad Ahmad, who signed an agreement with FIFA President Gianni Infantino to confirm the appointment of FIFA Secretary General Fatma Samoura as a ‘General Delegate for Africa’. However, Pinnick travails may not be unconnected with media reports tipping him to replace Amad as the CAF boss when he (Ahmad) was arrested in France for alleged corrupt practices. Pinnick may have been viewed as over ambitious by his boss. The NFF Prsedient’s removal was more shocking considering that he alongside Ahmad and others ousted the Issa Hayatou led group. Odunayo Adekuoroye  Two-time Commonwealth champion, Odunayo Adekuoroye continued to be the shining light of the Nigeria wrestling and will be one of the athletes that Nigeria  will be looking up to for a medal at the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. Campaigning in the 57kg class, Adekuoroye began 2019 on a superb note by claiming a gold medal at the Grand Prix of Germany in Dormagen in February. She dismantled Szell Anna of Hungary 10-0 (via technical superiority) in the final to boost her global rating. She also won bronze at the Dan Kolov-Nikola Petrov ranking series tournament in Ruse, Bulgaria in March. The 26-year-old continued with her impressive performance by winning her 5th African title at the 2019 African Senior Wrestling Championships in Hammamet, Tunisia in March. She won the tournament without conceding a point in four bouts and was crowned the best female wrestler of the tournament. Adekuoroye showed class by winning gold at the 3rd Governor Serieke Dickson National Wrestling Classics held at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Samson Siasia Sports Complex in Bayelsa in July to book her place at the Africa Games in Morocco. At the Yasar Dogu Ranking Series event held in Istanbul, Turkey in July, Adekuoroye defeated 2015 World Championships bronze medalist and 2016 European championships silver medalist Tetyana Kit of Ukraine 10-0 in the final to win gold. In August, she won her second consecutive Africa Games gold medal by defeating Emmam Ibrahim of Egypt 10-0 in the final. The Ondo State born wrestler won a bronze medal at the Senior World Wrestling Championships in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan in September where she also punched an Olympic ticket. The world number 2 is one of the few athletes that were recently adopted by corporate organisations through “Adopt Campaign”, an initiative of the Ministry for Youth and Sports, which seeks to support athletes who will be representing the country at the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Junior Yellow Greens  The national under 19 cricket team known as the Junior Yellow Greens made history by qualifying for the World Cup for the first time since it started in 1988. It was down to hard work as the team scaled one qualifying hurdle after another and dispatching better known teams to berth at the tournament, which will hold in South Africa from January 17 to February 9. The team is already in South Africa perfecting strategies for the tournament with the hope of doing the country proud. The team is qualifying for the championship first time in the 100 years of Nigerian cricket.