By Muyiwa Lucas  Clearing agents and local produce traders, under the auspices of All Ports Unified Freight Forwarders Practitioners Association (APUFFPA), have accused officers and men of the Nigeria Customs Service, Federal Operations Unit Zone A lkeja of systematically killing their businesses. Its President,  Mike Okorie, lamented that operatives of the unit lay seige at the precincts of the Apapa Port where they divert cargo vehicles accessing the port for export transactions on frivolous allegations of engaging in illicit export. The group, whose membership comprises exporters of local produce including treated woods, vegetables and beverages, said those arrested are subjected to delays sometimes lasting a day or two, intimidation and extortion. He explained that oftentimes the FOU operatives waylay trucks inside the entry gate of Apapa Port and force them to detour outside of the area where they initiate negotiations even when nothing illegal is found in the vehicle. At other times they are forcefully taken to their Ikeja office where they lose time and incur additional costs. He lamented that the atmosphere was not only detrimental to trade facilitation and ease of doing business, but was killing trade and impacting negatively on port trade cost efficiency. He said: “We are appealing to the CG to prevail on the FOU leadership to call his men to order. “There are resident officers and men of the strike force to intercept questionable exports in the ports. “For the smallest infraction, they collect from N200,000 to N300,000 to N400,000. Some of us trade with bank loans, this overzealousness is killing our businesses. “  Also speaking on the matter, a trader and exporter who pleaded anonymity said the FOU operatives’ action became worse since  the border closure, noting that such actions may not be unconnected with strategy for survival, since survival opportunities at the land borders had been blocked. He lamented that a situation where the Service  encouraged duplicity of oversights and disregard of command and territorial authority could not produce administration integrity or enhance system image. But the FOU Zone A Public Relations Officer, Jerry Attah, in a chat with The Nation, described the allegations as untrue. Attah said the body making the allegation should have channeled its complaints through the appropriate means if it was sincere. “As at this minute, nobody has ever brought such complaints to the attention of management. We as Customs are well motivated to discharge our duties, so our men and officers have no reason to extort anybody. Besides, our officers and men are aware of the dire consequences if found wanting, so nobody will engage in such illegalities,” he explained. Attah further said the Apapa axis in question was not a permanent station for the FOU team, as it worked based on information at its disposal. He added that anyone not engaged in illegal trade had nothing to fear. 