Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta Police have arrested 10 suspected members of a land grabbing syndicate who visited with terror, the innocent residents of Ewujomo village via Igbosoro in ogijo area of Ogun state. The suspects; Ismaila Lawal, Tope Oniyide, Sodiq Lawal, Ahmed Olaringbe, Gafar Kafo, Ismaila Haruna, Okanlawon Olabinjo, Kamoru Arulogun, Suleman Oresesun and Kazeem Oresesun on Wednesday allegedly armed themselves with weapons and stormed Ewujomo village, allegedly sacking the residents in a surprise attack. For hours on end, hell was let loose as the villagers fled their homes in different directions with sporadic gun shots following, allegedly, from the hoodlums. It was learnt that respite came the way of the besieged village when armed Policemen arrived the area after receiving distress calls that Ewujomo villagers were under attack. The Ogun State Police Command Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the arrest of the suspects in a release, stated that the hoodlums who road on motorcycles, invaded the village with dangerous weapons. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) stated further that the Divisional Police Officer, Ogijo division, Suleman Muhammed, mobilized policemen to the scene and the hoodlums on sighting the officers, opened fire sporadically but were overpowered by the police. According to the Police Spokesman in the state, the officers succeeded in apprehending ten members of the syndicate while some escaped with various degrees of injuries. He listed two live cartridges, two expended cartridges, an expended Brownie pistol ammunition, charm and three Bajaj motorcycles as items recovered from the suspects. Abimbola note that the Commissioner of Police c Kenneth Ebrimson has directed that the suspects should be transferred to state criminal investigation and intelligence department for discreet investigation. Ebrimsom, who hailed the gallantry displayed by the Policemen, warned that anybody with criminal intent would not find a safe haven in Ogun state, saying any criminal who decides to test the will power of the command would meet his Waterloo.