The Court of Appeal in Abuja has reversed the November 12 judgment of the Federal High Court, which disqualified Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo as the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the November 16 election. Justice Inyang Ekwo held, among others, that Degi-Eremieoyo gave false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) about his academic qualification follwing discrepancies in the names in his credentials. But the three-man panel of the Appeal Court, led by Justice Stephen Adah, faulted Justice Ekwo’s findings. He said the lower court erred by concluding that  the purported false information was sufficient to disqualify Degi-Eremieoyo. The court’s lead judgment, read by Justice Rilwan Abdullahi, held that the allegation that Degi-Eremienyo gave false information to INEC was not proven as required. The court noted that while the qualification for the position of a governor or deputy governor was set out in the Constitution, and Section 31 (5&6) of the Electoral Act, to which the trial court judgment related, it was not part of the grounds for disqualification of a candidate. It held that the lower court was wrong to have activated Section 31(5&6) in disqualifying the contestant. The Court of Appeal also held that the issues raised at the trial court were ‘criminal in nature which places the burden of proof on he who alleges’. It believed that the respondents – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), its candidates, Douye Diri, and Lawrence Ewhruojakpo – failed to prove their claims beyond reasonable doubt. The court said the lower court was also wrong to have determined the suit, which facts were in dispute through an affidavit evidence, adding that by so doing, the lower court breached the appellants’ right to fair hearing. Besides, the appellate court held that the different names in the appellant’s Form CF 001, his first leaving school certificate and General Certificate of Education (GCE) belongs to the same person, going by the supporting affidavit of change of name and newspaper publication. “The appeal has merit and it is hereby allowed. The judgment of the lower court delivered on November 12 is hereby set aside. Order is hereby made dismissing the suit of the respondents. Five hundred thousand naira cost is awarded against the respondents in favour of the appellants,” the Court of Appeal said. APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena praised the judgment. Nabena said: “Governor Seriake Dickson and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) tried all their dirty tricks and illegalities, including frivolous court actions, violence, election rigging, vote-buying and voter intimidation, to manipulate the election but the electorate stood firm and the people’s will prevailed. “Going by yesterday’s ruling, the legal action undertaken by the PDP was a clear case of abuse of court processes. The PDP abnitio knew it had no case but insisted on taking everyone on a wild goose chase. That is the beauty of democracy and the rule of law. The PDP has had its opportunity to see through its case, however baseless. “We can now look forward to the handover date when Bayelsa will be rescued from the failed administration of Governor Seriake Dickson and the PDP. Bayelsans can now look forward to the administration of Governor-elect David Lyon, which will usher in pro-people programmes and support and consolidate on President Muhammadu Buhari’s development and Next Level agenda for Bayelsa State.”