By Sampson Unamka A total of 2,938 undergraduate and 610 postgraduate students took the matriculation oath of Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo recently. The 21st undergraduate matriculation held in the morning while the 10th post graduate matriculation of the institution held in the afternoon of the same day. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ademola Tayo, said the university admitted over 500 more undergraduate students this year. “Last year we had 2,453, so it is over 500 over what we had last year.  We do not want a situation where we have too many students, because we want to run away from crowd. We want to be as conservative as possible so that our classroom will be able to contain our students, so we are not aspiring to be 5000 because that will water down the quality of education we want to give to our students”, he said. Addressing the undergraduate students at the school’s stadium, Ademola said the university currently runs 38 accredited programmess and has provided a unique environment for learning and research to make students experts in their areas of specialisation including medicine, science, social science, law, and computing, among others. “Dear matriculants, your training here guarantees you the confidence to march through in life with the power and authority to advance the frontiers of national development and international cooperation. In the course of your training here, you can always look to the future with the assurance that you are part of the tool to reshape the world for the common good of mankind”, said Ademola. On the institution’s recent achievement, the VC said many alumni were doing very well in various fields of endeavour.  He said: “I am glad to note that 10 alumni of Babcock University emerged in First Class category in the recently released result of Nigerian Bar Examination. Among them is Mr. Mayowa Mubashir Abiru, who graduated with a Second Class Upper division from Babcock University but emerged as the overall best graduating student in the whole of Nigeria. Babcock University is also ranked among the best in Nigeria in Nursing and Computer Science just to mention a few. Cardiovascular Centre is one of the best in the nation. “Many Babcock alumni are critical key players in our national life, the current Speaker of Oyo State Assembly is one of them. Others include eminent lawyers and Senior Advocates of Nigeria, scholars, captains of industry and leading names in the entertainment industry. We glorify God for these moderate achievements and we are happy that you are now part of the success story as we look forward to your own contributions and impact on the global arena.” While giving his remark to the postgraduate students at the institution’s pioneer church, the VC told them to be ready for rigorous research training. He said: “Dear matriculants, as a postgraduate student, you will network with thoroughbred academics locally and globally, and it is our wish that your research will be directed to solving social, economic, political, religious and ethnic challenges that have made the world a difficult place to live. As a postgraduate student, you will receive rigorous holistic training, coupled with outstanding supervision and mentorship, and coursework that will give you both in-depth and broad subject-specific knowledge. You are therefore requested to work closely with your lecturers, agencies, industries and government establishments to make your research output relevant in a globalised society.”