The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) policies on financial inclusion is yielding results. The decision of the Bankers’ Committee to classify Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) into BVN Premium and BVN Lite is expected to boost financial inclusion rate by giving more people, especially those at the grassroots, access to financial services, writes COLLINS NWEZE.  The Bank Verification Number (BVN) project, which captures the uniqueness of every bank customer, is one of the most-innovative projects introduced into the Nigerian financial system in 2014. With 40 million bank accounts already linked to the BVN, the Bankers’ Committee at the weekend unveiled a new plan that required classification of BVN into two – BVN Premium and BVN Lite. Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele, who disclosed this at the end of the 11th Bankers’ Committee retreat in Ogere, Ogun State, said BVN Premium will cover customers that can provide the 18 basic requirements for a complete BVN enrolment, while the BVN Lite will require minimal documentation like name and phone number for bank customers, especially those in the rural areas that do not meet the full requirements. This, he said, will enable such grassroots’ customers, mainly the poor, conduct minimal financial services and reduce financial exclusion rate. The BVN scheme, which gives each bank customer unique identification, is to revolutionise the banking and payment systems while ensuring safety of depositors’ funds. The CBN boss said the Bankers’ Committee was collaborating with the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) and Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) to ensure that the project succeeds and more Nigerians brought into the financial system. Emefiele said the Know Your Customer (KYC) scheme would be migrated into the BVN Lite. “However, there are people who are currently financially excluded, like people in our rural communities that carry phones, but not having financial services. With the collaboration of NCC, we are putting this BVN arrangement to allow them conduct minimal financial services.”  BVN Lite and EFInA report on financial inclusion Analysts have seen the new BVN policy as key to bringing more people into the financial services net. The CBN’s policies on mobile money, agency banking, Know Your Customer (KYC),  insurance, and, recently, Payment Service Banks (PSBs) expected to take off this year have helped to bring 2.6 million new customers to the financial system. Emefiele has continued to take steps to deepen banking services in the economy. The hope for Nigeria to achieve 80 per cent financial inclusion rate come the year 2020 received a major boost, when the Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA) released its 2018 survey figures. The survey showed that 63.6 per cent of Nigeria’s adult population now has access to financial services and only 36.6 per cent are financially excluded. EFInA is a non-governmental organisation and a financial sector development organisation funded by the Department for International Development (DFID) and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for the promotion of financial inclusion in Nigeria. The outfit conducts surveys every two years to determine the situation of things regarding financial inclusion in the country.  EFInA’s 2018 report came after a painstaking research carried out across the country, with 750 respondents in each of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), and 27,470 interviews, which represent 97 per cent of the target samples of 28,380. The survey was anchored on several indicators, including banked population, remittances, savings with a bank, payments, received income, loan with a bank and banking agents, among others. An increase of 1.4 per cent in the banked population from 2016 to 2018 was found, a decrease of 2.2 per cent in remittances between the two years, and another decrease of 6.7 per cent in saving with a bank within the period. The indicators of payments, received income and banking agents all recorded increases of 3.4 per cent, 1.3 per cent and 0.6 per cent respectably, while loan with a bank remained static at 1.3 per cent. The report, however, found a decrease of 1.6 per cent (from 30.1 per cent in 2016 to 28.5 per cent in 2018) in the non-bank indicators of pension, savings through other formal institutions, mobile money, mobile money agents, insurance, remittances and loans with other formal institutions.  Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility Before the release of the EFInA report, financial inclusion report showed that NorthEast and Southeast regions have the least access to banking, a report on financial access touch-points released yesterday has shown. With five per cent financial access touch-points for the Northeast and seven per cent for the Southeast, both regions remain disadvantaged in access to financial services despite efforts by the CBN, Bankers’ Committee and commercial banks to take banking to the grassroots, the Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility (SANEF) report has shown. The CBN voted N20 billion for banks, Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement Systems (NIBSS), licensed mobile money operators and shared agents to accelerate financial inclusion and take banking to more Nigerians. A member of the Technical Committee of SANEF, Bolaji Lawal, said the SANEF initiative involved on-boarding 40 million low income and un-served Nigerians into the financial system, increasing financial access points from the current 50,000 to 500,000 by 2020 and deepening access to mobile and digital financial products and services, such as savings accounts, micro-loans, insurance, pensions by Nigerians.  EFInA survey lists challenges to financial inclusion The EFInA survey report concluded that three factors — affordability, institutional exclusion and lack of awareness — were the biggest obstacles to financial inclusion. According to EFInA, 60.1 million Nigerians do not have/use a bank account, 96.3 million do not have/use mobile money and 97.9 million do not have insurance. On the digital usage in the country, it revealed that mobile money, which was thought to be useful in the financial inclusion drive, was found to only deepen rather than expand financial inclusion. The report revealed that while 35.5 million Nigerians (36.6 per cent of the adult population) use bank accounts only 3.0 million adults have mobile money and bank accounts, whereas 59.4 million (60 per cent) neither have mobile money nor bank account. Similarly, the study showed that while 82 per cent of adults, comprising subsistence farmers and small business owners, receive their income in cash, 10 per cent of those adults receive their own income via mobile money or bank account, while another eight per cent did not receive any income at all. Savings in the country dropped by 13.3 per cent according to the report, while savings in assets, property, and livestock rose from 47.4 million to 54.7 million since 2016. Other decrease in respect of this indicator was that of borrowing, which went down by 2.0 per cent and remittances to one per cent. 