 THE lawmaker representing Badagry Federal Constituency, Hon. Babatunde Hunpe, at the weekend inaugurated seven constituency offices in Badagry and supported 350 petty traders with N20,000 each. Addressing a crowd at Apa, Ajara and Iledu in Badagry, Hunpe said he increased the constituency offices to seven to reach constituents in all nooks and crannies. The legislator said he established two offices in Badagry Local Government and Badagry West Local Council Development Area (LCDA), while three were established in Olorunda LCDA. “The ones in Badagry West are at Apa and Seme. In Badagry Local Government, we are at Ajara and Badagry town, while in Olorunda LCDA, we are at Iledu, Imeke and Ajido. “Just as I promised during my campaigns, I want to be nearer to my people and get information from time to time on their welfare. “To make these offices functional, I have appointed 40 people within their communities to be in charge of them, to attend to residents from time to time and get information from them. “Also today, across the three councils, we have supported almost 350 petty traders with N20,000 each. “I call this support because the traders involved in it are vegetable sellers, fish sellers, pepper sellers and traders that use the money to increase their goods. “So, close to 350 people have received financial support for their businesses,” he said. Hunpe said to encourage people that worked for him during the campaigns, 23 motorcycles would be given to wards’ coordinators and LGAs’ coordinators. He said besides the inauguration, he organised free eye tests for residents of the three councils and distributed eye glasses tagged ‘Digi Bola’. “Digi Bola has been revived here in Badagry after the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, because of the good governance he brought to Lagos,” the lawmaker said. Hunpe said that he had donated a speed boat to Gberefu, a riverine community, to ease transportation of pupils, who had to cross over to Badagry to attend schools. He urged APC leaders in the town to support him and develop Badagry.  The Chairman of Badagry Local Government, Mr. Olusegun Onilude, enjoined the beneficiaries of the financial support to spend the money judiciously. The Alapa of Apa Kingdom, Oba Adekanmi Oyekan, Possi 3, hailed the lawmaker for contributing to people’s welfare. He appealed to other leaders to emulate Hunpe.