 Welcome to December! I believe every one of us must have had definite encounters with God via praise in the course of the month of November 2019, I pray that each of us will keep telling the story of our diverse encounters for life (Amen). This week, we shall focus on: Engaging the Power of Sanctification for Fulfilment of Destiny! From scriptures, we discover that every child of God is ordained a mountaintop global citizen. As it is written, Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid (Matthew 5:14; see also Deuteronomy 28:1; Genesis 28:14). However, it is not enough to discover destiny, we must know how to see it fulfilled (Galatians 3:29). That means we are ordained to bless our world, and not to be a burden to our world. However, to fulfil that glorious, colourful and enviable destiny, certain things must be in place. Among these things is sanctification —living to please God. Sanctification is a spiritual catalyst for fulfilment of destiny (Proverbs 14:34). That means it takes sanctification to go up and to stay up. Samson went up by sanctification; but he came down by desecration (Judges 13:3-5, 16:1-30). Also, think of Solomon, he loved many strange women and he ended up in a shrine (1 Kings 11:1-6).  That establishes the fact that destiny is at risk without sanctification. Furthermore, sanctification is the will of God. As it is written, For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication: that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour (1 Thessalonians 4:3-4). That means there must be a way to live a sanctified life. And we must know the way to possess our vessels in sanctification and honour. Jesus said, Which of you convinceth me of sin? (John 8:46; see also 2 Corinthians 5:21). If Jesus knew no sin, but became sin for us; how then did Jesus have dominion over sin? First, we must understand that iniquity is a mystery; but, godliness is a ‘great mystery’. The Bible says, For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way (2 Thessalonians 2:7; see also 1 Timothy 3:16). So, we have the mystery of iniquity that can only be swallowed up by the great mystery of godliness just like in the case of Aaron’s Rod, swallowing up the rods of the magicians (Exodus 7:10-12). Jesus had the Spirit of Holiness on His life; that was what empowered Him to have dominion over sin (Romans 1:4). Jesus, the holy child of God, still needed the Spirit of Holiness to live a sanctified life (Luke 1:30-35). That means every one of us must understand that the Spirit of Holiness is the only way to live a sanctified life (1 Corinthians 6:11). Why Do We Need Sanctification? Channels through Which the Holy Ghost Sanctifies Us In conclusion, destiny is at a risk without sanctification. Solomon lost it all. Samson became a toy in the hands of his enemies; they plucked out his two eyes and asked him to dance for them. Judas, an apostle, lost it. Achan lost his entire lineage. Gehazi became leprous. In weakness, they all crashed; but we shall not crash!  However, you must be born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Walking in the Newness of Life, Conquering Controlling Powers and The Blood Triumph. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.   