Wealthy Nigerians and corporate organisations need to support the government to reduce unemployment and poverty in the country. The wife of the Ogun State Governor, Mrs Bamidele Dapo Abiodun, made the call in Lagos during the seventh edition of employment of the Helpers’ Charity Foundation powered by Dr. Dipo Okeyomi,  popularly known as Carry Go. She said it would be difficult for people to rely on government for employment. Mrs Dapo Abiodun commended Dr. Okeyomi for the empowerment programme and stated that it should be emulated by other wealthy Nigerians. The wife of the governor praised Carry Go for using his personal money for the programme. In his lecture, an Islamic cleric, Sheik Jamiu Adegunwa, said “Dr. Okeyomi is doing what God loves best by helping the needy through the empowerment programme”. Earlier, Dr Okeyomi said he derived joy in helping the less-privileged in the society. He added that the programme had nothing to do with politics. About 250 people were given tools, including grinding machines, refrigerators, hair dresser machines and coolers, while 25 students were awarded scholarships for higher education. Dr. Okeyomi, who is also a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Ojokoro area of Lagos State, said he had experienced poverty in the past as a bus conductor and baker in a bread factory. “It was during these times that I prayed that if God showered His blessing on me, I would use it to assist the less-privileged and that is exactly what I am doing with the empowerment programme,” he said. He stated that those students that won the scholarships would not only enjoy free tuition, but would also enjoy free textbooks. Dr. Okeyomi thanked the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola; and Oba Oluwalambe Taiwo of Ojokoro land for their support. The climax of the event was the presentation of awards to 25 prominent Nigerians, including Mrs Dapo Abiodun and Ogbeni  Aregbesola. Different cultural groups from Lagos, Ogun and Osun states entertained guests at the programme.