By Korede Yishau  By the time you will read this column next week, we will be three days into 2020. For me and for you, 2020 will be great. 2019 has been good. My debut novel, In the Name of Our Father, which was published in April 2018, received critical favours this year. The novel has been the subject of undergraduate and post-graduate studies: Four undergraduates at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Lagos State University (LASU) and Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) have used the book for their final year projects; and an Msc student at the University of Ibadan (UI) and a PhD in the North have also made use of it as one of their texts. So, on behalf of In the Name of Our Father, I say thank you to 2019. ABU’s Jamiu Ilufoye concerned himself with the Marxist leaning of the novel. Marxism focuses on the conflict between the dominant and repressed classes. Ilufoye wrote: “Many African writers, through their creative piece, have written to criticise the government of the day and the faulty structure of governance in the society. It is against this backdrop that this study, therefore, seeks to examine the Marxist ideology embedded in Olukorede Yishaus’s In the Name of Our Father. “In the Name of Our Father, Yishau’s debut text, mirrors the Nigerian society by showcasing its ugly nakedness: it tells the tragic story of a critically sick nation. As Ibrahim (2019) critically observes, Yishau’s novel In the Name of Our Father, from the Marxist perspective, ‘describes religious and military rulers as the dominant class in the society. Yishau has used his novel to redeem the society from the money-oriented religious leaders, and also to challenge the military rulers who hauntingly enforced their ideologies on the common man’. He argues further that ‘Yishau’s novel does not just critique the class and capitalist system in the religious warehouse, but also revolts against the superstructure in the Nigerian society’. “From the Marxist point of view, Olukorede Yishau’s In the Name of Our Father expounds basically the brutality that characterises military governance and/or authorities in the Nigerian society; side by side religious despotism which is arguably its key tool in subjugating the masses. Marxism suggests that colonialism is the mother of religion and it is what colonialist used to penetrate Africans.” Ilufoye continues: “In the Name of Our Father chastises the hypocrisy of religious leaders who parade themselves as the warden of Christianity. It similarly reveals the affinity between religious and political leaders, and how religion is often used as a tool, not only to exploit, but also to tame the consciousness of the plebs from causing a revolution. “Meanwhile, religion is not the only tool used here; military hegemony is also deployed to silence the people from opposing the misrule of the upper class. Hence, the journalist, Omoeko’s encounters is not unconnected with the attempt to unfold an array of religious misconducts that plagued the religious temples in Nigeria. This is captured in Omoeko’s fictional story ‘Angels Live in Heaven’.” Another ABU product, Ibrahim Munir, studied the socio-religious cynicism in the novel. Munir wrote: “Olukorede S. Yishau’s novel In the Name of Our Father joins the corpus of Nigerian literature by baring issues that relate to military regimes and thematises religious indoctrination which defined the military government in Nigeria. “The narrative is reminiscent of the author’s self-imposed mandate to engage his writing in the socio-political and religious issues that characterise the Nigerian state. In this way, Yishau fictionalises Nigeria in its monumental woes, emphasising its political and religious drawbacks and making public the meretricious, cynical qualities that define leaders in Nigeria, either politically or religiously.  “Sourcing materials from the military history of Nigeria, the novelist addresses the characteristic attitudes of men driven by power and selfish interest at the expense of the masses. The author thus seeks the medium of journalism to present cases socio-political scourge on which the Nigerian state thrives. As a human right activist, the novelist uses Justus Omoeko to reveal the animalistic tendencies inherent in the military regimes and how people who raise the consciousness of the masses are unjustly brutalised.” Yishau’s In the Name of our Father, Munir observed, lays bare the despotism that defines military government. “The author thus creates real-life situations using fictional experiences. In more ways than one, General Idoti, the Commander-in-Chief, is representative of the holier-than-thou life cherished by military leaders. The narrator thus pokes at his follies and provides convincing instances that validates the claim that most military leaders are self-centred, power-drunk and condescendingly cynical,” the scholar wrote. He concluded that issues such as materialism, hypocrisy and greed reinforce socio-religious cynicism in In the Name of Our Father. “Without mincing words, the novel dramatises the material benefits that underlie social, political and religious practices in today’s Nigeria,” Munir wrote. UNILAG’s Benjamin Arkorful’s focus is not much different from Munir’s. He focused on the hypocrisies and gullibility as it concerns religion. “Critically perusing the title of the novel – In the Name of our Father – one is quick to point the hypocritical nature of the Christian religion. The poor congregation are easily manipulated because the pastors exert their vile through the expression “in the name of Jesus” thereby making the people oblivious of the hypocrisy behind the expression. “In this situation, it is accurate to state that religion has been used to legitimise and perpetuate the status quo of the poor masses. This is because, despite that they live a miserable life, the pastors who are to intermediate between God and them rather exploit them all in the name of our father and collect the little money that they have. At this point in time, therefore, we cannot but conclude that these pastors’ aims are to make money through the plight of the poor masses thereby perpetuating their status quo. “In addition, Yishau demonstrates Karl Marx’s conception – religion is the opium of the people (or the masses) in the novel under discussion. Marx opines that religion is used as opium to opiate or bring hope to the hopeless soul, sigh to the oppressed creature and spirit to the spiritless situation. This is hypocritical because they do not practice Christianity with the aim of worshipping God, rather they resort to religion to get rid of their crisis. “In fact, some people go to the extent of using diabolic powers under the disguise of Christianity to opiate their plight. Yishau makes this claim evident in his novel. For example, Alani, who is faced with many challenges of life, resorts to Christianity to seek refuge. Out of desperation, Alani tells pastor David, after he (Pastor David) has told him, ‘you’ve seen a lot to last a man for the whole of his life’ that ‘I want to put it behind me by staying with you and doing the kind of job you do’ (29). From this dialogue, it is evident that Alani sees Christianity as his opium that can console his distressed heart,” Arkorful wrote. What more is there to add? My final take: We are about five days away from 2020 and if you do nothing else, do not give prayer contractors access to your lives. God is for us all and we can all seek His face. Let’s send fake pastors and prophets to their early retirement! 