By Adeyinka Aderibigbe The President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to perform the ground breaking ceremony for the take-off of the University of Transportation in his home town, Daura, Katsina State on Monday. The Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi who disclosed this on Sunday said the event will take place at 10am. According to him, the specialised university, which is one of the gains of the several rail projects being handled by the China Civil Engineering Corporation, (CCECC) is aimed at promotion and the development of local competence and capacity through acquisition of requisite technology of the railway sub-sector. It is first of its kind in Sub-Saharan Africa and it is expected to train Nigerians in a gamut of the transportation industry and encourage Nigerians to study transportation systems. Amaechi said already, 150 Nigerians are presently in China enjoying scholarship at China Universities on the bill of CCECC. He said discussions is already in top gear with CCECC to ensure that another set of 150 students enjoy the scholarship in the coming academic session. According to him, government envisaged that these Nigerians will be graduate to the Masters and PhD class and in the next five to six years return to the country to take up employment in the university to train others.  Amaechi who spoke exclusively to The Nation said there was no definite time for the take off of the school.
According to him, the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the Chinese government clearly states that the Chinese would run the university for five years after which they would rescued to the background to allow Nigerians take over. Amaechi further stated that Nigeria is not committing any fund to the university project as it is solely funded by CCECC and the Chinese government. He said the Chinese also requested that the Federal Government nominate an administrator or a Vice Chancellor who will spear head the designing of the school’s curriculum in order to ensure that it caters for all the areas of transportation studies, including the various schools, faculties and departments needed to ensure it’s viability. The establishment of the university is in line with the corporate social responsibility of China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) especially in the creation of employment as well as encouragement of local capacity development. He said the university will boost the localisation and manufacturing of railway materials and domestication of rail sciences and engineering in Nigeria.