President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday urged member countries of the African Petroleum Organisation (APPO) to subscribe to the equity of the African Energy Investment Corporation (AEICORP). The subscription, according to him, will ensure consequential investment by Sovereign Wealth Funds, National Oil companies or any other designated organisations of existing members and non-members of APPO, African/International Private Banks, Financial Instututions, and African/International Private Investors. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who represented him at the extraordinary session of the council of minister of APPO made this disclosure in Abuja. According to him, out of the 850 million people in the world who have no access to modern energy, Africa has 600 million of the figure. Buhari submitted that “We need to exploit what we have to take our people out of energy poverty, and by extension economic poverty. The Nigerian President said that the reforms of APPO were extended to AEICORP, stressing that major recommendations were made which the APPO Council of Ministers approved in their last meeting in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. Buhari noted that “among the changes introduced are opening up of equity ownership to private and financial institutions, recapitalisation of equity to $1billion and the establishment of a new board of directors with membership from both the public and private sectors. In other words, the AEICORP shall not be solely owned by sovereign counties of APPO anymore.  It is now to be owned by both sovereigns and private investors.” The importance of recapitalising AEICORP cannot be over-emphasize for Africans because of the paradigm shift away from oil as energy source, investment funds are fast drying up for the oil industry, he added. The paucity of investment for oil, said Buhari, is happening at a time Africa is finding more and more oil and gas. He insisted that without the required funds, these reserves will remain in the ground, untapped and un-accessed, while Africans go without energy. Buhari told the members of APPO that as a founding member of the organization, with Lagos as birthplace, “Nigeria, like many other member countries have not been pleased with the achievements of APPO, so far.” Association (APPA) in Lagos in 1987, with the main objective of providing a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries. According to Sylva, in the last two days, the APPO executive board met in Abuja and extensively deliberated on the report of the transition team as well as that of the Secretary General and will submit recommendations to the council of Minister for its consideration and approval. Some of the key decisions expected to be taken at this meeting include the choice of the host country for APPO headquarters, the selection of a new Secretary-General and some key officers of the APPO secretairiat, and the recapitalization of AEICORP.