Eminent Nigerians comprising governors, lawmakers, ministers, clerics and corporate bodies on Tuesday felicitated with fellow compatriots on today’s Christmas celebration. They urged Nigerians to put their hope in God for solutions to the nation’s challenges. The eminent persons expressed confidence that the challenges will soon give way for a prosperous nation. They advised fellow citizens to share the message of love, peace and sacrifice, as exemplified by the birth and life of Jesus Christ. Chairman of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi congratulated Christians in the state and other parts of the country for witnessing another Christmas. He urged them to continue to live by example in matters of love, goodwill and peace. In a Christmas message by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, the governor also called for the celebration of the essence of Christmas through practical demonstration of love and peaceful co -existence with one another. He said the commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ calls for joy and felicitations among the people of God. Fayemi urged Nigerians to rejoice and celebrate with family and friends and renew themselves in the light of peace and joy that Christmas represents. The governor advised Nigerians, irrespective of their religious beliefs, to open their hearts with love in their relationships with one another, celebrate and pray for the unity and progress of the country as well as a better tomorrow. He said: “This is a season of joy. We must celebrate with one another, and in doing that, spare some time for reflections and supplication to God who rules in the affairs of men. “To every Christian, Christmas means liberation and salvation by the Almighty. It is also a time to reach out to fellow compatriots in love irrespective of religious leaning. Let us all walk in love, pray and work together for a greater country.” Dr Fayemi also urged the people to reflect on their individual contributions to the peace and progress of their immediate community and the state in general, during and after the festive season. He said: “Christmas is the season of love, joy, generosity and forgiveness. While we celebrate with friends and family, we should also reflect on our individual contribution to the peace and progress of our immediate community and the larger society. “That peaceful and prosperous state we all desire would be realised when we live in love and show consideration for others around us. We can achieve more if we stay united, extend hands of fellowship to one another and be law abiding.” Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege said: “…There is much more to be done. As we celebrate Christmas now, I urge all my constituents and all those supporting us in all parts of Nigeria to embrace the message of unity and hope that we all need very much today, as we march towards a great future.” The senator representing Lagos Central, Senator Oluremi Tinubu (OON) said: “I felicitate with Christians in the Lagos Central Senatorial District, Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole on the annual festivities in commemoration of the birth of Jesus Christ. “The season calls for sober reflection on the purpose of the birth of Jesus. In reflecting, we must not lose sight of the difficult journey that the time preceding His birth must have been for Mary. However, she held on to the promise and remained steadfast. “Often, it is difficult to see the bigger picture or the destination. Notwithstanding, we must trust that God who created us all has a good plan for our lives. “Likewise, we must focus on the bigger picture – the Nigeria of our dreams. We must trust that the measures put in place by H. E. President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration are not to cause hardship to us as a people, but to put Nigeria on the path of progress, for our improved welfare and general wellbeing. “What we can do is ensure that we all do our part – pay taxes, obey laws, shun crime and entrench peace in our communities. The prosperity of Nigeria is dependent on us all. “I believe that the New Year and indeed the new decade will usher in more manifestations of the good work that this government is doing. “In addition, I implore us all to continue to be communal, looking out for one another, and lending a helping hand to those around us who may be in need. “As we celebrate, I wish you joy, peace, prosperity and the blessings of Christmas.” Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar urged Nigerians and the Christian community to allow love and hope to be their guiding principles as they celebrate this year’s Christmas. In a statement on Tuesday by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, the former Vice-President said Nigerians, particularly the Christian community, should be thankful to God that they are alive to witness another Christmas. He noted that going by all that happened in the course of the year, it is only love, hope and expectations of a better future that can hold Nigeria and all mankind together. Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade urged Christians to reflect on the birth of Jesus Christ and the hope it gives billions of people around the world. In a special goodwill message by his Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Linus Obogo, the the governor said: “We must be meek to one another, pull together and support one another. It is only that way that we can mend the chasm and build bridges of unity as a nation. This season of Christmas has afforded us a unique opportunity to achieve that.” Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq advised Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of love, God’s omniscience and service to humanity, associated with the birth of Christ. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, he said: “Notwithstanding our differences, we are all from Adam, and one lesson from this season (the birth of Christ) is the need to love and look after one another. We should think always about the legacy of love, mutual respect, and willingness to help one another in good or hard times. “We call on Nigerians, especially Kwarans, to do more to foster love and peace this season and beyond because a major selling point of the state is the calm and peaceful disposition of our people. We also call for continuous mutual respect and understanding within the faith community and not allow anyone to cause disaffection in the state.” Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom said the yearly commemoration of the birth of Jesus signifies the immeasurable love of God for humankind. In a message by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akaae, the governor urged Benue residents to go about their normal activities without the fear of molestation. He restated the commitment of the state government to the rule of law, due process, transparency and accountability. Imo State Governor Emeka Ihedioha advised the people to reflect on the virtues of Jesus Christ, in charity, forgiveness and sacrifice. In a Christmas message by his Chief Press Secretary, Chibuike Onyeukwu, he said: “…I implore us all to emulate his lifestyle and remember the less fortunate ones in our midst. The joy of Christmas must go round. At end of the festivities, we should find satisfaction in how much we gave and not how much we spent on ourselves.” Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike advised Christians to promote love, peace and unity. In message by his Special Assistant (SA) on Electronic Media, Simeon Nwakaudu, the governor urged Rivers State residents to deepen their faith in God as He has the solution to all societal challenges.  He advised the privileged ones to help the less privileged as a measure of deepening friendship and communal living. Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu urged the rich to share from the little they have with the poor, in the spirit of love. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Segun Ajiboye, the governor hailed Nigerians for their resolve to celebrate the Christmas in peace. He advised them to make moderation their watchword. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello described Jesus Christ as one of the greatest unifying figures in history of mankind and signifies Salvation, Peace and Goodwill for humanity. He urged the residents to reflect on the joy and peace the world enjoyed on the first Christmas, when wise men from far and shepherds from nearby hills, representing all classes of men, joined angels from heaven to herald the arrival of Christ. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun said: “The season is one of hope reborn, just like hope and confidence is born anew in our dear state with the ascension to power of a government that is preaching inclusiveness, renewal and collective and individual prosperity. “Christ is the reason for the Yuletide. Christmas is here and it is one of the most joyous times of the year. It is filled with festivities, love and sharing. I, therefore, thank God Almighty for seeing us through all the odds and gains of the year.” Taraba State Governor Darius Ishaku praised the residents and security agencies deployed in the state for working hard to achieve the relative peace now prevailing after bloodbaths in the state. Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi advised Nigerians to pray for sustained peace, unity and progress. In a message, the governor felicitated with fellow Christian faithful, wishing “Ndi Enugu” and other Nigerians a Merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. He noted that the festive season offers another opportunity for the people to promote peace, good virtues, love and unity as well as dedicate their lives to the service of God. Ugwuanyi thanked “Ndi Enugu” for their love, unceasing prayers, goodwill, solidarity and support. The governor reassured them of his resolve to sustain the tempo of peace and good governance as well as continue to serve them with the fear of God. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, the governor said: “The peace has made this year’s Christmas celebration very remarkable.” Chairman of Senate Committee on Cooperation and Integration in Africa/NEPAD, Chimaroke Nnamani, yesterday called for harmony among religious adherents to engender peace and unity in the country. Also, the Chairman of Senate Committee on Finance, Solomon Adeola, urged Christians and other Nigerians to pray for peace and economic development of the country. In a statement in Abuja, Nnamani, who represents Enugu East, said religious harmony is essential to having a common approach towards addressing the nation’s underdevelopment challenges.  He said the present time calls for unity of purpose towards tackling the issues facing Nigeria. “We need to be on the same page in order to produce the desired result,” Nnamani said. The senator restated his commitment to peace and justice for all as well as the development of all parts of the country through effective legislation in the National Assembly. The essence of Christmas, he said, should not be lost to merriment but the promotion of love, forgiveness, care for the less privileged and peaceful coexistence. Nnamani pledged to work for peace and synergy between among all arms of government to ensure workable policies and programmes for national prosperity in the New Year.  In a statement by his media aide, Chief Kayode Odunaro, Senator Adeola noted that Christmas symbolises the celebration of the birth of a new dawn for the salvation of souls for all humanity. He added that the occasion should not be used for merry-making alone but as an opportunity for fervent prayers for a new dawn and prosperous future for individuals and the nation. The senator noted that Nigerians are going through a difficult period for sustained economic growth “that is mercifully not compounded by the usual fuel scarcity, as witnessed in time past during Yuletides”. He added that with “abiding faith in Jesus Christ, all our challenges will be a thing of the past as we move to next level of our development.” Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, urged Nigerians, especially Christians, to pray for peace and security during and after the festive season. A statement on Tuesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, reads: “Malam Bello called for peaceful co-existence and harmonious living amongst all those who have made the FCT their home. “He reminded them that the territory is the symbol of Nigeria’s unity and that all residents have a duty to reflect that symbol by eschewing all factors that tend to divide them and instead embrace those that unite.” Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Dr. Matthew Hassan Kukah, urged the Federal Government to redirect the country’s diversity towards prosperity. He noted that successive governments had failed to mobilise Nigerians for national unity to engender positive development. Kukah spoke on Tuesday in Sokoto at the annual media briefing to mark the end of 2019 and today’s Christmas celebration ahead of the New Year at the Diocese of St. Bakhita’s secretariat. “This is a very difficult time for our country. The real challenge is the development of capacity to perform and manage our diversity amidst emerging circumstances. “Though ours is not the worst; irrespective of the challenges, tomorrow will be better,” he said. Nigeria’s mobile telecommunication giant, Globacom, advised Nigerians to display love to neighbours, family, friends and the needy in society. In a goodwill message in Lagos, the grand masters of data described Christmas as a season of sharing and caring, as exemplified by the teaching of Jesus Christ. “As we celebrate Christmas, let us prepare for the second coming of Christ in our acts and deeds and in caring for our loved ones and neighbours. We should always remember that the advent of Christ is near.” 