Tony Akowe, Abuja  A former governorship aspirant in Zamfara state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Aminu Sani Jaji has said the crisis that caused the party to lose the state in the last elections has been resolved. He was reacting to a statement credited to the Publicity Secretary of the party in the state, Shehu Isah insinuating that he (Jaji) met with former Governor Abdulaziz Yari in Abuja as a representative of the G8 group. The APC State Publicity Secretary, Shehu Isah had said in an interview that Yari and some members of G8 Group in the state met on Wednesday in Abuja to reconcile party members in the state. Isah was quoted as saying “the G8 Group members include Sen. Kabir Marafa, Dauda Lawal, Ibrahim Wakala, Mahmud Shinkafi and Aminu Sani Jaji, among others. Speaking with newsmen in Abuja, Hon. Jaji explained that he attended the meeting in his personal capacity and not as a member of any bloc, adding that the G8 no longer exist. The former lawmaker admitted that as part of their resolve to put behind them the crisis that led to the APC losing the state in the 2019 general elections, they have agreed to sheathe their sword and find a common ground to reposition the party for greater success. “Yes, it is true that I met with the former Governor, His Excellency Abdulaziz Yari in his house in Abuja. But I want to clarify that I did not attend the meeting as a member of G8. I went there in my personal capacity as a member of our great party, who is committed to repositioning the party and putting it back on track to reclaim power in the state. “The genesis of the meeting is that some people from our state, particularly from Hari’s side approached me on the needs and benefits of the reconciliation as according to the teachings of our noble Prophet Muhammad which is beyond any political affiliation “As far as I am concerned, G8 does not exist again in the party because the essence for which it was formed has outlived its usefulness. Therefore, we need to know that Sen. Marafa has allied himself with the PDP in Zamfara, for that as an APC member; I have to ensure that all APC members come together for the interest of the party, both at state and federal. “I am a bonafide and committed member of the APC. I remain a loyal member of the party and I have accepted to work with other members of the party in the state to reunite our members and move the party to the next level.”