By Adekunle Jimoh, Ilorin A member of the National Assembly representing Irepo/Orelope/Olorunshogo Federal Constituency Hon Olumide Ojerinde alongside National Orientation Agency (NAO) has empowered 250 artisans
in his constituency. The House of Representatives member has also promised to collaborate with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) to empower another 250 constituents in the first quarter of 2020. Hon Ojerinde said this in Ighoho, Orelope local government area of Oyo state at the 2019 zonal intervention project in Kishi-Irepo LGA, Igboho-Orelope LGA and Igbeti-Olorunshogo LGA. The theme of the programme is “my constituency, my project.” He said: “We are going to have a total of 250 beneficiaries from this in collaboration with the National Orientation Agency. For the current one we are concentrating on barbers, farmers, beauticians and
valcanizers  “We just started and the comments on the lips of the people of this constituency are unusual. By God’s grace in the first quarter of next year we are going to empower another 250 people in collaboration with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). “The empowerment programme is basically on skills acquisition, capacity building. We are targeting on the day-to-day needs of the artisans in the constituency.” In a remark, NOA Director General Dr Garba Abari said that constituency projects are not largesse by government to legislators as parts of perquisite of office. He added that constituency the projects are meant for the good of the citizens of the benefiting communities in the country. Dr Abari who was represented by his special assistant, David Akoji added that the agency is collaborating with the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to interrogate the location of constituency projects in the country. Said Abari “it is important to mention here that ICPC has been interrogating the process of location and implementation of constituency projects and has found out that the vital component of the process is to get the citizens to buy in or take their ownership of these projects since, essentially, it is meant to serve their communities. This is where we are now for which the NOA and ICPC are fully committed.” 