Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday inaugurated 31 network of roads totaling 20.216km in the Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, (LCDA) within the Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area. At the ceremonies which took place at four locations. Sanwo-Olu said: “Good road network facilitates effective management of traffic and transport, thereby boosting the socio-economic activities of the State; it reduces traffic induced health challenges and travel time to access health facilities and educational institutions. The governor said the drainages that come with the roads help to de-flood the environment, while the street lights complement the security architecture of the State. According to him, the provision of road infrastructure is central to the delivery of the THEMES Agenda (Traffic & Transport, Health & Environment, Education & Technology) of his administration, adding that “it is common knowledge that tourism and entertainment are better appreciated and attract more people when access to the venue is relatively stress-free. “To this extent the prioritisation of infrastructure especially, road, rail, and water transportation facilities is predicated on its multiplier effect and direct relationship to other pillars of the THEMES agenda.” The governor said Ojokoro LCDA is a strategic settlement with a fast growing population and a huge need for infrastructural renewal and that the 31 network of roads commissioned was specifically executed to offer traffic relief to the rapidly developing area, improve the socio-economic activities and connectivity within the axis and its neighbouring Ogun state through Segun Adetiba Road and the bridge across Ilo River. The completion of the network of roads will also complement other completed roads within Ojokoro LCDA.” “The network of roads will help unlock the perennial traffic gridlock along the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, with resultant reduction in travel time along the corridor. Prior to embarking on these projects, traffic on the road had grown tremendously considering the high rate of the population growth and its attendant vehicular density.”  