IN the early part of President Muhammdu Buhari’s first term, this column foresaw how contemptuously the government began to treat the rule of law, and warned that it was a harbinger of more repression to come, incipient fascism, and eventually the overthrow of democracy. Nigeria, the writer warned, would be fortunate to retain its democracy in one battered form or another by the end of the president’s second term, if he got it. Not only did he get that second term, almost to the letter, his presidency has done its utmost to bruise and batter the rule of law, relegate judges and the judiciary to serfdom, subordinate the parliament to vexatious plenary natter, and is proceeding speedily to castrate the public through a plethora of withering antidemocratic bills/laws and defiant extralegal and extra-constitutional practices. Last Friday’s invasion of the Federal High Court in Abuja by the Department of State Service (DSS) to re-arrest Omoyele Sowore against the provisions of the law should by now have disabused the minds of sceptics who doubt this government’s antidemocratic credentials. The Buhari presidency has never felt comfortable with the checks and balances intrinsic to Nigeria’s warped variant of presidentialism, and has repeatedly and nostalgically whined about the ‘efficiency’ and ‘promptness’ of military culture and dictatorship. Now, by getting a second term, and not needing to go back to the electorate for revalidation, the government has thrown caution to the wind and is determined to mould Nigeria into one unwholesomely hegemonic and regimented whole. Of course this unilateral approach to governance began in the president’s first term, as exemplified by the DSS’s botched invasion of the National Assembly last year probably to synchronise a plot to overthrow the intransigent and hostile leadership of the legislature at the time, and spending state funds and executing policies not authorised by parliament. Judges’ residences were raided, a chief justice was casually and unconstitutionally removed supposedly for corrupt practices, and critics and journalists routinely detained for long stretches in total defiance of the law. Now, the government has upped the ante by further humiliating Nigeria’s compliant and conniving judiciary and serving notice to activists that constitutional provisions safeguarding their rights were impotent in the face of a determined secret service eager to shape the narratives of ‘rebellion’ to suit predetermined purposes. Before the court invasion, it is significant that both the government and the secret service reacted very badly and frantically to the warnings by a former Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Alexander Ogomudia (retd.), that Nigeria was prone to violent restructuring or balkanisation if it disallowed peacefully restructuring. First to respond was presidential spokesman Garba Shehu. Said he: “This vituperation, coming from a former military chief speaks volumes about the mindset of groups of citizens who have yet to accept democracy as a form of government. It is very important to stress that we, as a nation, are a constitutional democracy and changes to the country in structure, its systems, policy and politics must abide by the norms of democracy, otherwise they would be extrajudicial and therefore unconstitutional…” Then the DSS followed suit with its own baleful warnings. According to its spokesman who announced that the DSS had discovered plots to destabilise the country, “These predetermined actions have been designed to take place simultaneously in the major cities across the geopolitical zones in the coming weeks. This is more so that the plotters are also targeting the yuletide seasons to accomplish their sinister motives. Considering the implications of these on public safety and national security, the Service wishes to warn the anti-democratic elements responsible for these heinous plots to desist forthwith from their inglorious acts.” It is an eerie reminder of the Abacha era. Not only is it now established that Nigeria is not a constitutional democracy, contrary to Mr Shehu’s statement, it is also obvious from the DSS’s self-help measures, incarcerations, casual labelling of critics as subversives, and invasions that the greatest threat to democracy and the rule of law is the government itself. The plain fact is that the government is subverting democracy and trashing the constitution. The power to restore sanity is, therefore, in their hands. They know what to do if they are willing. Though there are no guarantees, Nigerians must soberly begin to hope that democracy, not the Chinese variety this government seems enamoured of, will survive till 2023.