Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has vowed that it will defeat the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the December 7, local government elections in the state. The ruling party said PDP has outlived its usefulness and cannot bring any meaningful development to the state considering how the opposition party put the state on reverse gear when it was in saddle. Addressing newsmen in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday, the party’s Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ade Ajayi said the opposition party is already in distressed by the massive support the APC and all its chairmanship and councillorship candidates have been enjoying across the state. Ajayi was optimistic that no surprise will come out from the council elections as APC will sweep votes in all the 16 local government and 177 wards in the state, noting the people are comfortable with Governor Fayemi-led administration in bringing new lease of life to the citizenry through people-oriented policies. The party said all its candidates for the elections across the state were people of integrity with the capacity to meet the yearnings and aspirations of people at the grassroots. Warning the State Independent Electoral Commission, (SIEC) not to engage in any illegal acts that could cast spall on the elections, Ajayi assured that the party was fully prepared for the election and has been campaigning vigorously at the grassroots. “We are not taking any chances in the coming elections as we have been campaigning vigorously across the 16 councils and 177 wards. We will ensure PDP is completely bury in Ekiti this time around. “We will not behave like the PDP who are fond of rigging. We are going into the polls and preparing for it as if we are in the opposition. And we will win the elections. “APC is the choice of Ekiti people. We are not going to engage in vote buying. Our candidates are not money bags even the party itself have no money to buy votes. Our good works and performance will win the polls for us. Meanwhile, the Onigede of Igede-Ekiti, Oba Oba James Aladesuru warned has political parties against any form of violence before, during and after the poll. The monarch gave the warning while receiving the campaign train of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by the deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Honourable Hakeem Jamiu and the party’s chairmanship candidate in his palace. Oba Aladesuru said, “As we are preparing for the election on Saturday, I want to warn our people to shun all forms of violence during the poll. We don’t want bloodletting because elections recently regardless of the magnitude have witnessed series of violence. “You, political actors must allow people to vote in an atmosphere of peace and I pray God will see you through.”