The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN) has said the Lagos State Government was firmly committed to protecting the well-being of every child in the state. Onigbanjo stated this in his welcome address delivered during the commemoration of 71st Human Rights day organised by the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. The event which was themed “Sexual Abuse” was held at the The Auditorium, Chapel of Christ the Light, C.I.P.M Road, Central Business District Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos and attended by both private and public schools around Lagos. He said: “I will like to state that the Lagos State Government under the leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is firmly committed to the protection, welfare, and wellbeing of the child and the state. “The Government will not hesitate to bring to book anyone who seeks to threaten or undermine the rights of our children in Lagos State”. Onigbanjo who was represented by a director in the Ministry, Mr. Saheed Quadri, added that sexual abuse exists in all forms irrespective of the nature and the Lagos State Government takes such offenses serious. “Sexual assault encompasses a range of acts, including coerced sex in marriage and dating relationships, rape by strangers, organised rape in war, sexual harassment (including demands of sex for’ jobs or school grades), and rape of children, trafficking of women and_ girls, female genital mutilation, and forced exposure to pornography. “These are issues which Lagos State Goverment takes seriously and that seriousness was shown in 2007 with the adoption of the Child Rights Law”, he added. The Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Ms. Titlayo Shitta-Bey In her welcome address also emphasized on the menace of child abuse In the society. She said: “This year’s event is no exception as we are aware that Human rights are essential and the fundamental provision in the Law that ensures the survival and continuous ‘existence’ of mankind. “At the Directorate for Citizens Rights under the Ministry of Justice we are focusing on “sexual abuse” in line with this year’s theme. “Our appreciation goes to the Lagos State Government that has been the trailblazer with the Child Rights Law of Lagos State and the Adoption of the Law”. “It has established the Family Court and looked into the Maternity leave; all these are for the well-being of the children. “The Directorate for Citizen Rights is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that the child right is not infringed upon and we are saddled with the responsibility”, she added. Mrs. Juliet Olumuyiwa Rufai from the Mirabel Center also delivered a public lecture on how to avoid sexual abuse, she also added that the Mirabel Center is always ready to treat rape victims free and apprehend the perpetrators. The event also featured drama sketches from schools aimed at sensitizing and educating the public about sexual abuse.