 The Senate on Wednesday urged the Federal Government to fully implement the provisions of the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act, 2018, especially the composition of the National Commission for Persons with Disabilities. While urging the Ministry of Information and National Orientation Agency to undertake awareness campaign against all forms of discrimination, the Senate called on the Ministry of Works to be aware of their obligations to Persons with Disabilities. The Chamber, accordingly, urged the Works and Housing Ministry and other MDAs involved in infrastructure and public buildings to adopt codes and standards that are user friendly to Persons with Disabilities. These resolutions reached by the Senate following the consideration of a motion to mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Senator Istifanus Gyang (PDP, Plateau North), in his lead debate, noted that the observance of the Day seeks “to increase awareness of gains to be derived from the integration and mainstreaming of disabilities in every aspect of human endeavour including political, social, economic, and cultural life of nations”. According to the lawmaker, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities (PWD) which took effect from May 3, 2008, affirms that all persons with all types of disabilities must enjoy all Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He stated that though Nigeria ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of People With Disabilities in 2007 and its optional Protocol in 2010, it was only in January 23, 2019, that President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities (Prohibition) Act 2018. Senator Gyang added that while the law prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability, it impossible fines, sanctions and prison sentences on those who contravene it. Gyang stated that the law stipulates a five-year transitional period for the modification of public buildings and automobiles to make them user friendly for people with disabilities. It also provides for the establishment of a National Commission for Persons with Disabilities that will be responsible for ensuring that Disabled person have access to housing, education and healthcare.