 Algeria offers the latest example of countries where former national leaders have fallen to abysmal shame, having been tried, found guilty and jailed for corruption. Two previous prime ministers of the country during the two decades’ dictatorship of deposed President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, who was forced out of power by the military this year following protracted nationwide protests, Ahmed Ouyahia and Abdelmalek Selled, have been sentenced to a total of 27 years imprisonment for their roles in squandering public funds through money laundering and abusing their authority by granting undue privileges. Other ex-Algerian public officers sentenced to various terms of imprisonment ranging from two to 10 years in the case include two former industry ministers, a former governor of Boumerdes Province and eight businessmen. Another former industry minister, Abdeslam Bouchouareb, who is at large, was sentenced to 20 years in prison in absentia. Several countries across the world are currently being rocked by massive and persistent protests and violent demonstrations spurred by widespread poverty, inequality, and poor performing economies caused often by tax evasion, contract inflation, money laundering, diversion of public funds for private gain and nepotism, among other forms of corruption. These include Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Iran, Iraq, Indonesia, Egypt, Czech Republic, Lebanon and Haiti. A survey indicates that over the last two years, no less than 10 national leaders have either resigned from office or removed as a result of corruption charges or allegations in such countries as Zimbabwe, South Africa, Iceland, Brazil, Montenegro, South Korea, Slovakia, Peru and Mauritius. Other countries whose leaders have had their positions seriously threatened and their reputations tarnished due to corruption charges and investigations include Italy, Romania, Ukraine, Venezuela, Colombia, Israel, Sri-Lanka and, of course, the United States, where President Donald Trump is currently facing impeachment threats from the House of Representatives. Nigeria is naturally not immune from this growing antipathy to corruption across the world, even though the country has not got to the level attained in Algeria, where former occupants of such powerful office as prime minister have been sentenced to prison for corruption.  This is despite the fact that some of the country’s former presidents and military heads of state have serious allegations of corrupt practices levelled against them, with the state seemingly helpless to do anything about it. It would appear that the immunity of Nigeria’s former presidents does not lapse even when they have left office. Yet, it cannot be denied that some impressive progress has been recorded in recent years in the country’s fight against corruption, particularly under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Professor Itse Sagay, revealed that over  N1 trillion of stolen funds has been recovered from indicted ex-public office holders by the administration. This does not include physical assets, both within and outside the country, which have been forfeited to the government. Even more importantly, though the conviction rate is slow due to the cumbersome judicial process, a gradually increasing number of top office holders, including former governors, have been found guilty and imprisoned for corruption. There is no doubt that the brazenness and impunity with which public office holders rape the public treasury is bound to be considerably reduced the more it becomes obvious that those found guilty are unlikely to escape the legal consequences through manipulation of technicalities to achieve indefinite delays. However, the greatest breakthrough would have been made, particularly psychologically, in the war against corruption when, just as in the case of Algeria, occupants of even the highest offices in the land know that they will be held to account when they lose their immunity.