African Boxing Union may strip current ABU lightweight title holder, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph of his belt after the Nigerian  declined  the  rescheduled contest against West African Boxing Union (WABU) champion Rilwan ‘Real One’ Oladosu. NationSport reports that the fight tagged ‘Fight of The Decade’ which was initially billed for Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos on October 12, but could not hold following a shoulder injury Joe Boy sustained while training with his sparring partner. President of the Nigeria Boxing Board of Control (NBB of C), Dr. Rafiu Ladipo feared that the ABU champion may be stripped of his title if he failed to show up for a new date of December 28 at the GOtv Boxing Night 20, which was fixed by the organizers and accepted by the ABU. “It is very sad that Oto Joseph was given the opportunity to defend his title. It does happen when a boxer is preparing for a fight and he gets injured during training. And when he informs the promoter and the board he is always allowed and a period of grace is given. In his own case, I think he was given about two months to get fit and comeback to fight. “We had to beg the ABU, of which I am a member, to please give us the opportunity to allow him treat himself, treat the injury and comeback to fight. But after the moratorium was given to him, he said he was not going to fight again. “The fight was now supposed to take place on December 28 and we’ve been worried why should he now says he is not going to fight again. Is the injury still there? He knows best. But then, the ABU has rules, it has a limited period of time within which you can defend your title.” And when you don’t defend your title due to injury, you are given a period of moratorium that will make you comeback to defend your title and the guy said he is not ready to fight. “If that being so, ABU has no choice than to strip him of his title although we are not going to be happy about it and that is why we are still talking with the ABU to exercise some patience. ”But if the ABU should strip him of the title, he should not blame anybody but himself because he is the cause of this,” Ladipo told NationSport.