Adam Mouktar Mohammed, chairman Federal Capital City Football Association (FCTFA) Abuja shares his strong appetite for  football, polo and Formula 1 as the three engrossing  sports that fire up his adrenalin in a conversation with Sport Editor, MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Adam Mouktar Mohammed, chairman Federal Capital City Football Association (FCTFA) Abuja, is unapologetically a consummate sport aficionado with interest in so many diverse fields. But how he does shares his time and passion for football, polo and Formula 1 auto racing would usually elicit interest even as he revealed his emotional attachment to his most desired sports. “Both ( football and Polo  are naturals, you see them every day and interact with them one way or the other,” explained Mohammed who few years back was in an exclusive list of 50  Great Minds selected by FIFA for its novel Fan Focus Group. “I grew up in an environment where both polo and football competed to be my first love but I would say polo is an addiction. “With polo, it’s a bit of adrenaline rush, the fun and excitement with the chemical in your brain (Oxytocin). “The fascination I have for polo has to do with the way you relate with the horses because they are the most beautiful, majestic gracious animals in my opinion. “Football is the world’s most loved sport and you cannot not have played as a kid growing up; and then it has this magnetic effect to get you hooked. “But the turning point for me was schooling in England and the evolution of the premier league in the early 1990s led me to get in deep and my rise and involvement; football is a global phenomenon,” he noted. In the meantime, Mohammed is a keen fan of legendary Scottish manager Bill Shaklee who made name with Liverpool and renowned for that imitable quotable that ‘some people think football is a matter of life and death; I assure you, it is much more serious than that.’ Football is more than opium for Mohammed: “Yes, indeed I truly love football for what it represents. The game has to come first always but we tend to personalise institutions.  “Once you lead, your jobs are to the follow the rules and grow the game within the confines global best practices standard rules and regulations and bring your experience and expertise to innovate and drive the process to maintain and develop the game. We always must have benchmark and never give excuses! “All over the world many countries have excelled I don’t see why we cannot given our size, status as a giant in Africa, our resources, our population, our passion and love for the game. “There are all the ingredients in Nigeria for us to have a standard league with packed stadiums, top players, great TV, numerous sponsorships, success stories on and off the pitch.” Meanwhile, polo for all of its appeal is generally viewed as an elitist sport and only reserved for the nouveau riche but Mohammed said such misconception is a bygone issue as he passionately defended his beloved polo. “Yes, polo is called the game of kings but over the years it has evolved  because we have seen how the ordinary people have grown in the sports to even become the best players,” he offered. “For instance, Adolfo Cambiasso is considered the best ever yet he is from a humble background; even in Nigeria the best players are the sons of grooms having grown up in and around the stables riding on daily basis and learning the art of horse management. “In my opinion it’s no more elitist as such; to a greater extent it’s very open both for participation and fans to access clubs and tournaments “The barrier I would say is the cost of entry, participation and maintenance of horses. But with growing sponsors more professional players emerge. “At the height of my playing time, we had a stable of 23 Horses, which was quiet a huge cost averaging N1million per month this is just  for horse feed, medical, grooming Etc. The huge cost is the initial investment in buying the horses because it’s a huge outlay. “As a kid living and growing up in Lagos, my first club was Ikoyi Polo Club which is just beside our house. I visited there every single day! I later on moved away to Kano then it became my new club ever since. So both (Lagos and Kano) are home at all times. “Unfortunately, as the sport grew then a lot of different people coming in it then started experiencing shades of political influence and squabbles, but time heals everything. “It’s control of the club leadership and power between Nigeria Polo Federation (NPF) and Nigeria Polo Association (NPA). But we must never lose focus of the true essence of the beautiful game which is to promote the game not people. We must build it, develop it, good facilities, follow the rules, enhance safety, make it enjoyable for sponsorship and fans and spectators thus make it attractive to new members.” Of course, doing charitable gestures is one of the core values  that  Mohammed is well noted for and he continues to soar at this level  when he personally sponsored some  20 coaches  for  the basic coaching  course at the National Institute for Sports (NIS)  in Abuja “Yes, ‘put your money where your mouth is’ is one of my cardinal principles,” stated Mohammed on whose wings several players of Kano extraction launched their football careers. “We all must invest and give back into our society. There are so many talents that need that structure and platform to learn and grow. “That diamond needs a lot of work at various stages for it to attract value and shine. We have produced many young talents that have represented Nigeria in U17, U20, U23 and Super Eagles already then gone on to clubs in Europe so we have done the full cycle.” It is on the basis of his great work at the grassroots  that saw him being unanimously  ushered  into office as the FCTFA Chairman in June when he beat the incumbent Musa Talle with 11 of the 15 votes. He said about his short and long term plans: “My short term plans are to upgrade pitches and facilities across the FCT particularly the Local councils; development, mentoring and education of coaches, referees, players and administrators; improve standards and enforcement/respect of rules and regulations of the game; attract sponsors and enhance the grassroots development of the game. “My long term plans include Designing, developing and implementing a football development master plan; develop world class training facilities; centres of excellence; make the FA a strong, viable money making institution; make it the leading FA in Nigeria in human capacity, development of the best talent from Africa and  an innovative technology driven FA that should be able to attract thousands into the game as players, investors, sponsors or fans.” Yet Mohammed has long been a great follower of the heart-pumping Formula 1; and what better way to demonstrate his abiding love for the sport than to be in the thick of action. He was in Dubai recently for the year-ending Formula 1 race to watch his beloved Lewis Hamilton triumphed in the final race of 2019. He stated: “I’m also in love with motor sports; I spent a lot of time and resources participating in single Seater racing in the UK and had my licence. “I went on to drive in many races but unfortunately I stopped as the higher you go the more expensive; and I needed a sponsor then with a huge budget going into hundreds of thousands of GB pounds. “I watched every Formula 1 race and knew all the history, records, details. I was out on the tracks as a spectator always. “Ayrton Senna and Michael Schumacher were idols. It’s truly one of the high profile sports in the world as it is a combination of motoring technology with speed, skills and bravery. “Hamilton’s F1 recent title win in Dubai further his greatness in motor sports history books because one more title, he will equal seven titles on par with Michael Schumacher whom many consider the greatest ever! “Hamilton is the epitome of humility. He is a people’s champion, true fans favourite. Even among stars he has pulled ordinary people into a sport that many consider elitist. “He is the first black driver to succeed breaking records and barriers and that’s what makes him special that words are not enough to truly explain what he represents,” surmised Mohammed.