Former Imo State governor and Senator representing Imo West Senatorial zone, Rochas Okorocha, on Monday gave hints on how the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will remain afloat after the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Okorocha who had earlier warned that the APC may not survive after President Buhari’s exit from office noted that the party requires structural redesign to be able to carry on beyond 2023. It will be recalled that President Buhari had during the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting in Abuja, appealed to the APC stakeholders not to allow the party to die after his tenure. But Okorocha who spoke with selected journalists in Abuja maintained that urgent steps should be taken to address the internal crisis in the party, beyond the President’s plea for the continuity of the party. According to him, “when you run a party based on sentiments you are going to have a similar problem that the PDP had in the past. For God’s sake if someone is not doing his job correctly, he should be shown the way out so that others can come in. After all we have more than one hundred million people in this country. “No party ever survives with crisis and on daily basis you hear about crisis in APC and anytime a football team is not doing well, you don’t blame the players, you blame the coach and if he needs to be fired, you fire him and get a new coach to teach the people on how to win their matches. “The appeal by Mr. President is okay but more needs to be done to reorganize the party and any party that does not respect its organs is bound to fail, you don’t have the BOT, you don’t have NEC meetings, you don’t have Committees working, that is not a party, so we need to call a spade a spade and do things correctly and the party will pick up and everybody will be happy for it so that the whole idea of forming APC will not be in vain”. The former governor however assured that the party stakeholders will jettison their grievances and hearken to the President’s plea and ensure that the party lives beyond 2023. He said, “in 2015 we built the APC around President Buhari because of his integrity to wrest power from PDP and we are going to ensure that the party did not die after his tenure but he needs to show leadership”.