Nigeria and Club Brugge exciting striker David Okereke is not carried away by his achievement this season. The 22-year-old has scored 10 times and played in most of his club’s UEFA Champions League (UCL) matches in Europe. You would think helping the Belgian top flight club to a modest third place in the CL Group stage behind Paris St Germaine and Real Madrid would propel him to Cloud Nine, not the Lagos-born quick silver, who has pronounced that he’s ‘a work in progress’. Hear him: “Playing in the Champions League is a dream come true for me. Though you know in life you don’t have to rest in one position. You still need to keep on working because I’m still young and I still have a lot of games to play, so every game for me is an opportunity to learn.” Okereke, who kicked off his career on the streets of Lagos before moving to Europe, says he did learn new tricks playing in the CL. “I’m going home with something I’ve learnt.  I still have a lot of games to play in the Champions League.” Okereke arrived Europe in 2016, a freaky-faced lad of 19 to sign for Spezia Calcio in the Italia Serie B. Okereke netted 10 goals and provided 12 assists in 33 games across all competitions for Spezia, before he was loaned to Cosenza in the same division. He made good the opportunity to score more goals and appearances, enough for top clubs in Europe to notice him.  Club Brugge finally landed his signature this summer as one of their most expensive signing in eight years in a four-year deal. Within a short time, he has notched a combined 10 goals in all tournaments, forming a formidable partner with another Nigerian, Emmanuel Dennis. Okereke also got the eyes of the Nigeria Olympic team coach earning him a call to play in the qualifier and scoring his debut game against Libya. In spite of this accomplishment, Okereke is of the opinion that he has not even started. “As for me, I would say I’m still a work in progress and I would keep working on myself and I’m still young and have a lot to learn and give back. I just have to keep my head down and focus ahead. I want to keep working and see where God is leading me to.” He ascribed his discipline and focus to his humble upbringing on the streets of Nigeria: “I was born in Lagos to a family of six; including my father and my mum. They have never been to Europe and l hope that one day l would be able to bring them to Belgium to see this lovely place. “Playing football is an opportunity to do something that I love; something that put smiles on my lips and that of a lot of people.” Club Brugge have also helped immensely to bring out his best: “Putting on the blue shirt of Club Brugge is an honour. Ever since I got here (Club Brugge), I have had exciting times. It is home away from home. Belgium is calm and pleasurable. It is an incredible place for footballers. It is okay for people who just want a quiet lifestyle. “When I have a bad game I don’t want to speak to anyone. But I have received encouragement of fans and management to keep me smiling when things did not work out the way I wanted. This has helped build my confidence and determination to keep going. I like to have great games at all times and put smiles on the faces of all our fans,” added Okereke. The speedster who likes to run the wings speaks further on CL experience, life in Belgium and other sundry issue: Excerpts. Playing style I’m fast, that is one of my qualities. I’m very fast and sometimes I take some incredible shot that I don’t even know I have them in my boot. UCL experience It was an exciting time. I played four matches and the one against Real Madrid was particularly exciting and impressive. Though we dropped to the Europa League, it is still a big deal because these are the best teams in the whole of Europe. Europa League draws against Man United I am thrilled with the fact that we are going to be meeting with Manchester United in the next round of the Europa League. We know we cannot have any influence over our next opponents and we have prepared our minds to be ready for whichever team emerges. Now we know that we shall be up against Manchester United. We hope to be ready for them. We don’t expect any easy game at this stage. We do not expect Manchester United to take us for granted too. Unwind I love music and that is all genres of music. I listen to lots of Nigerian music too. Though I am not the outgoing type, I like to stay indoors and catch my fun listening to music and playing computer games. Sometimes I go out with my colleagues but I don’t really enjoy that kind of life so much. I’m more of an indoor person. Favourite music Olamide plays impressive rhythm that I love very much. I listen to him a lot. There are other ones. I just love music that is pleasing to the ear and our guys back home are doing quite well with their music. Favourite food For no particular reason, I like to eat beans and bread a lot. It is my favourite food. I got used to it while in Nigeria and it has become my favourite, even in Europe. I’m not into local foods here. Maybe, someday I will get around to it. Nigeria call up It is exciting to play for the Nigeria national team. When I received the call up, I did not really expect it but my club encouraged me to go and I’m grateful to them. To also score against Libya on my debut game is also great but most importantly is meeting new friends. I’m happy with the goal and the teamwork in the team. It’s good to get to wear the green and white Nigeria jersey. It was enjoyable. Philosophy of life Patience is important and hard work. I know everything takes time and one must be patient and continue to work at it before the world can notice you. I am inspired by players who work very hard and patiently bid their time for things to happen. That is why I like Odion Ighalo. He has inspired me in a lot of ways. He was criticised for a long time but he quietly took and continued to work hard. He has become a big inspiration to many youngsters like me because of the way he came out of it all.