THE Ember months road crisis is about to reach its peak as the month of December sets in.  The days between mid-December to mid-January is usually a beehive of activities on Nigerian roads with lots of people travelling in one direction or the other for Christmas and New year festivities. Reports over the years have also revealed that the rate of traffic violations and road traffic crashes are higher within this same period. I therefore want to use this platform to present messages to road users in Nigeria to reduce the carnage on Nigerian roads. Journey planning – Plan to travel earlier to reduce traffic congestion and hasty driving on the roads. Over speeding – Drivers must avoid every form of unsafe driving. It fuels driving error, loss of control and accidents. Lust for money – Drivers of commercial vehicles should avoid rushing to make multiple trips because of the crave for money. Fatigue – Drivers must make room for adequate pre – driving sleep of not less than six  hours to avoid micro sleep and allied crises while driving. Drug abuse – Many drivers do engage in the use of psychoactive substances and drugs under an illusion that it helps them to cope with the stress of driving. Contrariwise, psychoactive substances and drugs interferes with the normal functioning of the brain and other organs of the body thereby making the users safety risks on the roads. Road maintenance – By now, the Federal and State Ministries of Works as well as the Federal Road Maintenance Agency must be up and doing to make the roads motorable or vehicle worthy. Good enough, the raining season is already passing away thereby making road maintenance much more easier. Vehicle condition – The Federal Road Safety Commission and State Vehicle Inspection Officers must intensify their activities in vehicle monitoring and inspection to ensure that only road worthy vehicles ply the roads. Driving School Association of Nigeria ( DSAN) must do more to ensure that all classes of drivers are trained and re – trained as an effective boost to safe driving in all situations. Traffic law enforcement – The mobile Traffic Court system should be invigorated to ensure the prosecution of apprehended road traffic offenders nationwide. Additionally, the traffic offenders should be referred to accredited driving schools for correctional training. Traffic management – There is a need for the Federal Road Safety Corps, Vehicle Inspection Officers and State Traffic  Management Agencies to identify and concentrate more attention on the black spots to prevent traffic gridlocks and crashes. Security – The Security Agencies must be on their toes to ensure the roads are well manned to prevent criminal activities in the day and night. Without doubt, the Nigeria Security Agencies have been doing well in this area. They, however, need to do much more because of the nature of the season. Whether we like it or not, night journeys can never be ruled out in Nigeria mainly because of the nature of goods being transported, the distance and preference of passengers. Therefore, the Government should take proactive steps to ensure the safety and security of all road users both in the day and in the night. Drivers, remember that life is not a car part, once lost or damaged, it cannot be replaced. Be safety conscious and drive to safe lives. Road Safety is a collective responsibility. The governments ( Federal, State and Local) and all road users must take appropriate steps to ensure safety and security for all on Nigeria roads. I wish all the readers of this column Merry Christmas and a Happy new year ahead. 