Super Eagles and Rangers FC midfielder, Joe Aribo, has been compared to Nigeria’s well-decorated skipper Mikel Obi. His debut game for the Super Eagles got rave review from top analysts who pronounced that the 22-year-old would make a good difference in Nigeria’s engine room. He is described as the missing link since Obi retired from the team. John Fashanu said of him: “Aribo is going to be a very important player for Nigeria. He is going to be one of our key players for years. He’s been doing very well for Rangers and has been exceptional since his debut for Nigeria. Joe is going to be targeted by the opposition because they know what he can do. It’s important he is used properly by us because he’s vital for the team.” Before last month’s match against Lesotho, Thabo Senong, Lesotho head coach, had this to say about the former Charlton player: “Nigeria have very strong and skilful players. Joe Aribo is one of them. He has been doing well at his club and everyone knows he is a very dangerous player. He’s one we have to watch.” And Aribo did not disappoint as he gave a commanding performance leading to the 4-2 whitewash of Lesotho by Nigeria. Before all that, one man had spoken highly of Aribo and he is no other than Liverpool legend and the coach that attracted Aribo to his current club Rangers FC, Steven Gerrard. A midfielder of world repute, Gerrard sure knows a knockout midfielder when he sees one. Following his transfer from Charlton in the summer, Gerrard said of him: “There were a lot of clubs in for Joe around Europe, in the Premier League and the Championship. There was a lot of interest in him but for me it’s just another top player joining Rangers. He’s mobile, dynamic, can burst past a player and create and score goals. There is room for him to develop but he’ll give us something we’ve not got in the midfield department. “He’s left footed, which is something we don’t have in our midfield at the moment; so he’ll give us more balance. We have a good midfield but currently we don’t have a player with Joe’s characteristics. “He is tall, athletic and quick. He’s a box-to-box player and is not afraid to open the door when he gets around the box and he can unlock defences. “We’re confident we can turn Joe into an even better player and I’m really looking forward to working with him. “He’s still young and we firmly believe there is a lot to come from him, but we need to be patient in order to allow him to continue his development and to improve as a player with the club.” Thankfully, the feeling is mutual for the youngish Nigerian in England. He admitted that he has great respect for the Liverpool legend, as one of his idols growing up. Aribo said: “I don’t think I should say this, knowing how much the gaffer was a hero to me . . . but I grew up  supporting Man United! “But you can still have huge respect for players even though they don’t play for your club. “I just remember how good a player the gaffer was. He just ticked so many boxes. In terms of the greatest players to play in the Premier League he’s up there with the best.” With the mutual affection, he said his manager has taken a personal interest in him and teaching him how to become one of the greatest midfielders in the world. “My manager (Gerrard) is just so easy going. He’s down to heart and great to be with. He’s like a mentor to me. He helps me and gives me tips on how to improve my game. He’s already shown me different movements, getting into hard spaces in order to get the ball. “There are just a lot of little things he’s already shown me. I can’t wait to keep learning.” London-born Aribo, who plays as an attacking midfielder, started his career at Staines Town, impressing to win their academy Player of the Year Award in 2014 and be offered a trial at Charlton. After signing for Charlton, he made his first-team debut in October 2016, making 22 appearances in the 2016/17 season. His first goal came in November 2017 and he followed it up with five more during that campaign. Last season, the youngster made 39 appearances and hit double figures, netting 10 times to catch the eye of a number of suitors, but it was Rangers and Gerrard that got his attention and his signature. Aribo has also got to make another important decision of his career, when he opted to honour Nigeria’s invitation in a friendly match against Ukraine in September. Since he was born in England, he was eligible to play for England like Fikayo Tomori and Tammy Abraham, but he chose fatherland Nigeria. In his first game for Nigeria, the African team played out a 2-2 draw against Ukraine at the Dnipro Stadium and among the most impressive players on the night was Aribo. His confidence on the ball was excellent, his vision was superb and his timely tackles were top-notch as he made his debut for the team. He also scored the team’s first goal on the night to round off a brilliant start to his national team career. “When the invitation from Nigeria came I discussed it with my parents and they supported the idea of playing for their country. I knew I am eligible to play for both countries and my parents feel strong about me playing for Nigeria. Since that decision was made, I have enjoyed my games with the Super Eagles and the manager is nice. I have met great players and new friends too. I’m going to like it here.” Aribo speaks more on growing up, life at Rangers, his vision and mission, among other things. Excerpts: Why I chose Rangers I chose here because of the size of the club of course, but also the manager. I had a chat with him and he persuaded me this was the best place to be at the moment and I trusted him. I’ve loved every minute of it. I just couldn’t wait to get started when I first came up here, and I didn’t expect it to be as good as it is now. It was amazing to play at Ibrox. As we know, the fans are crazy and I just love it and look forward every week to play in front of a sold-out full stadium. My teammates have been great. I knew Glen [Kamara] beforehand, so I have settled in quite well with him and the other boys are very easy-going, so it’s not been a problem so far. It reminds me of Charlton as it is the same here as it was there. It’s good to have that in your dressing room as everyone will go that extra mile for each other. I knew what would be the case when I first came here, so it’s not really been a surprise so far. I know the fans love winning – it is in our DNA and it is what I want to do and what we are expected to do. Dimitri Payet played in the Premier League and I watched him doing amazing things, so knowing I will be on the same pitch as him is great and I’m enjoying every bit of the attention. Rangers also have a great Academy and the other day I watched the kids do their thing. It was great to see how much talent there was and seeing how much the young kids love football. Probably the time you enjoy football the most is when you’re a kid as you are just playing for fun. It reminded me of when I was a kid, growing up and enjoying football. Childhood I was born in Camberwell, U.K, and started my football career with Kinetic Academy before joining a semi-professional football club, Staines Town. I had an impressive outing and bagged the club’s academy player of the year in 2014. Charlton Athletic spotted me here and asked me to come for trial in 2016. I was part of the team that won the League Championship playoffs against Sunderland at the Wembley Stadium. We won the game 2-1. I want to add that Charlton did a lot for me. I was toughened and given the opportunity to play with confidence. I want to say that I blossomed in Charlton and when Rangers came for me and Gerrard spoke with me about his plans for me, I  was encouraged me to move on. International debut It’s great to score in your first international match and against a team like Ukraine. I felt very much at home with the Nigerian team once I spoke with Alex (Iwobi). The team is young and talented. I am at home because it is easy to blend in. We all talked about helping the team do well and playing for each other. I know I have a future with the team and would score more goals. What also draws me back home is the love of playing for your country, making your people happy. That draws me to Nigeria. There is just so much love in Nigeria and you kind of receive much love playing for Nigeria. We started slow but once we got into the game we showed what we are capable of doing. Describe you I am a laid-back, easy-going person. I am quiet but observant. I’m calm and quite comfortable with any person or anywhere I find myself. I like to keep to myself but comfortable with others. Motivators I would say Jay Jay Okocha inspired me, especially to choose to play for Nigeria. I watched him play as a kid and get inspired. The same goes for Peter Odemwingie. I enjoy watching them play. Eagles No 10 shirt It is such a big challenge but I feel it is a great honour and I am equal to the task. Knowing what the likes of Okocha and Mikel have done with that shirt in the past, I want to replicate it and that’s just it. Scoring against Brazil It is like a dream come true. Playing against these players who are your fans and you want to play like them and going on to score against them is just like a big achievement. The message is to keep on enjoying my game and my career.