Every week I think about what will interest you, dear reader. In arriving at a choice, I always consider Nigerian stars, knowing that in other climes, the local media celebrate their own. This topic was difficult to pick since I support Liverpool, which is at vintage position to lift the Barclays English Premier League diadem after 30 years. As an avid Liverpool supporter, I know that our mantra of ‘Never Walk Alone’ has informed the choice of Leicester City as the likely team to walk with us to the podium, but won’t be decorated as Champions of England in May. Why not? This is just a prediction, with two Nigerians – Wilfred Ndidi and rave of the moment Kelechi Iheanacho – in tow. Will thunder strike again on one spot? Leicester is the fairytale team for the season in England. This new toga has arisen from the tactical savvy of former Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers, who narrowly missed the 2013/2014 Barclays English League title with the Reds, no thanks to the slip  by Steven Gerard at Anfield against Chelsea, which Demba Ba scored with the Special One, Jose Mourinho, taking his pound of flesh . Rodgers created the once dreaded threesome of Sterling, Sturridge and Suarez (SSS), who scored goals with aplomb at Anfield and everywhere Liverpool visited that season. The trio reminds watchers of the English game of the current Liverpool goal-scoring tripod of Sadio Mane, Firmino and Mohammed Salah, except that the manager is different. The bearded one from Germany, Jurgen Klopp, is reminding everyone of the feats created by SSS, leading to the exit of Suarez and Sturridge in controversial circumstances. Perhaps, Liverpool were not destined to win the diadem that 2013/2014 season because Rodgers left Anfield for Scotland and ruled the Scottish Premier League, using Celtic to show that what he achieved with the Reds wasn’t a fluke. Rodgers’ return to the EPL has sparked off a resurgence for the Foxes, reminding their fans about how they shocked the world by lifting the EPL trophy in the 2015–16 season – their first top-level football championship. They are one of only six clubs to have won the Premier League since its inception in 1992. They played a brilliant counter-attacking style of football with a fearless frontline of Riyad Mahrez, Shinji Okazaki and former England international Jamie Vardy. The trio had 46goals that season and Mahrez was crowned the Best Player in England. Back in the 2013-14 season, Liverpool had their own deadly trio. The combination of Suarez, Sterling and Sturridge (SSS) helped Liverpool to 101 league goals, third on the all- time list of goals ever scored by a club in the top flight. The trio contributed 61 goals but failed to win the Premier League as they finished second, four points behind eventual winners Manchester City. Suarez and Sturridge finished first and second on the top scorers’ chart, with 31 and 21 goals. But their individual feats were worth celebrating. However, the tears from the teeming fans caused by a single slip from Steven Gerrard have haunted the Kop till date. This season, Liverpool look unstoppable but former manager Brendan Rodgers has built a solid Leicester City side that will pull both the Reds and Manchester City until the very end. Not forgetting Jose Mourinho’s entry into the EPL and his methodological approach to matches, using a team that lost its steam after the finals of the UEFA Champions League, which Liverpool won 2-0 in Spain. Leicester are past champions and know how to handle the pressure of leading the league through its tortuous 38 weeks matches. With Jamie Vardy at 33 years still scoring goals and running faster than younger men, nobody should dismiss Leicester in this year’s campaign. Perhaps, when Leicester clashes with Liverpool at the King Power Stadium December 26, we would be able to ascertain if they have what it takes to play against the big boys when the stakes are high. Interestingly, Leicester will be meeting Manchester City, the defending champions, five days earlier, precisely December 21 at the Ethihad  Stadium. Back-to-back losses could change the arithmetic at the top and set the stage for new permutations involving Liverpool and Manchester City at the competition’s zenith. If Leicester win both matches, they would have shut the door against the Citizens and recue the points between them and the Reds. The EPL, no doubt, is the best compared with other European leagues where three to four teams contend for the title seasonally. Mourinho’s Tottenham are 23 points adrift of league leaders, Liverpool. But that is the beautiful game- highly unpredict able. Soccer is like biscuit, nobody knows where it would crack. A spate of bad results or injuries to key players could drag leaders down and change the narrative of the quest for the league’s diadem. With an adept manager, such as Mourinho, you should always count on him in such contests, more so when there is the January transfer window where he can shop for players to strengthen his squad. So, Liverpool, Leicester and Manchester City, watch your backs. Did I hear you say such a proposition won’t happen, given Liverpool’s pedigree? Hold your breath, dear reader. The league is a marathon filled with ups and downs. We wait. Indeed, nothing excites Nigerians most than watching our nationals celebrate in their clubs on the podium after an important achievement. In fact, such pictures, especially those which they take with their family members, make the front pages of most dailies, especially if one of the kids do something special – think about anything that would tickle people’s fancies. I’m looking forward to seeing Ndidi on the podium with Leicester. I believe strongly that such a feat should qualify him for the 2020/2021 Africa Football of the Year. It is true that Kelechi Iheanacho isn’t a regular with the Foxes, but cameo shows, such as the one against Everton, can boost his chances of getting another club, if he insists on playing regularly next year, which is when most countries will be playing their 2022 World Cup qualifiers. Speaking on LCFC Radio’s Extra-Time show as monitored by Soccernet.ng, former Leicester City star Iwan Roberts said of Ndidi: “What you do without the ball is nearly as important as what you do when you’ve got the ball. It’s not going in ones and twos, it’s going in as a unit. Wilfred Ndidi is a brilliant player and we saw that again on Sunday. He is one of the top tacklers in the whole league and he’s a really important figure for Leicester this season.” Like I predicted here last week, Ndidi has been dropped from the list of players vying for the Africa Cup of Nations diadem, leaving Odion Ighalo as the only Nigerian listed. Ighalo will soon be dropped. His being listed resulted from his feat as the highest goal scorer at the last Africa Cup of Nations. Ighalo plays in the Chinese League, which effectively rules him out of the race. With formidable strikers, such as Mane, Salah, Aubameyang and Mahrez, it will be easier for the carmel to pass through the eyes of the proverbial needle than for Ighalo to nick it. Did I hear you say “don’t rule out Ighalo”? True, with CAF, anything is possible. But I doubt it.