By Raymond Mordi THE Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, has urged members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State to close ranks to reposition the platform for victory in future elections. The senator representing Delta Central gave the advice during an interactive section with chieftains of the party from the Ika. A statement from his Deputy Chief of Staff, Alex Onwuadiamu, said. It is imperative for members to accommodate one another, irrespective of the differences that had arisen from the last party congresses which polarised the party into two factions.” Onwuadiamu who represented Senator Omo-Agege at the event said: “Due to the outcome of the last party congresses, the party was torn into two. Some people took the party to court which lasted up to the Supreme Court. At the end of the day, the court made it clear as to who the substantive executives are. “It is therefore expected that after the court cases, the party should by now come together, so that we can in unity go to elect new executives in the forthcoming congresses.  I would not want a situation where we had to experience what happened in the past. Therefore, it is imperative that a stronger unity of bond is fostered among party members, so that the coming congress would be rancour free. “As things stands now, there is no victor, no vanquished; APC remains one indivisible family in Delta State. Therefore, we should carry all members along and ensure that there is no discrimination; for that is the only way we can win election in Delta State. “Do not forget that as a party we have never won an election in the state, but I can assure you that in 2023 APC will take its pride of place in Delta State. That is why the Deputy Senate President has also emphasized that henceforth people will be rewarded according to the measure they put to make the party succeed.” He called on the party chieftains in Ika to prepare ourselves for the coming party congresses and to support the leadership of the party for the progress of the entire fold. 