Chinyere Okoroafor As we approach harmattan in mid-December, a dry and dusty month when we feel bunged up trying to breathe through our nose. It is important to pay attention to the warning signs of cold before it gets hold of us, leaving us hibernating under our bed-sheets. However, experts say that treating the symptoms early enough can banish the cold before it takes a grip of our sinuses. Here are the tips we need to follow in the morning, afternoon and evening whenever we think we might be down with a cold to rid the symptoms in just 24 hours. In the Morning Start the day with a hot shower. This can ‘loosen secretions’ in our noses as the steams helps clear blocked sinuses. The warm water can also bring relief to the aching limbs which we often experience when we fall ill. It is important to always take vitamin C by including oranges in your breakfast, or other vitamin C fruits or the supplement. Taking hot drinks like tea and coffee should be the last drink to take because the caffeine content of the drinks might dehydrate you further. It is better to stick to orange juice instead. Saltpipe, an inhaler designed to help improve the respiratory systems is recommended as it alleviate coughing and sneezing. Afternoon It is advised to stay indoors and keep warm when you feeling a cold coming on. When a nose gets too cold and more so, when the immune systems don’t work properly, a person becomes more susceptible to infection. So, staying indoors also limits the spread of infection. If you have to go out, it is advised to wear a scarf around your nose to keep it warm and, if necessary, use a moisturising nasal spray. READ ALSO: It is good to stay well hydrated by drinking plenty of water to beat that scratchy feeling that develops at the back of the throats when the temperatures drop. Alcohol can dehydrate you further so it is best to stay off it for a bit. It is also good to snack on nuts, as they contain selenium which supports our immune systems. Evening Saving the best until last, having a cold is the perfect excuse to get a curry in. So it’s not all bad. Hot spices such as those found in pepper soup can irritate the lining of the nose; making it easier to clear and helping you feel ‘instantly’ better. So stick to it. In terms of medication, a combination of paracetamol and ibuprofen, following the recommended amount on the back of each pack is also recommended to try.