 NINETY years after the women of Oloko led a war to speak against the injustice and violence towards women, Raconteur Productions, staged a play titled ‘August Meeting’ to commemorate the Aba Women’s Riot in Aba, Abia State on December 8, 2019. The play tells the story of the women’s war in 1929, its victories and the need to build on the gains which  led to the inception of the August Meeting. The stage play was brought to Aba courtesy of the US Mission in Nigeria and the American Film Showcase as part of their commitment to the United Nation’s 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) campaign. The day started with a film screening of ‘The Prosecutors’, a documentary by Leslie Thomas. ‘The Prosecutors’ is a feature length documentary telling the story of dedicated lawyers who fight against rape and impunity, violence against women embarking on the long journey towards justice. After the movie screening was a session on Media Advocacy led by Matthew Cerf and assisted by Temitope Ogungbamila of the Justice Empowerment Initiative, highlighting the key ways for a successful media advocacy and practical steps to use the media for change.  The show was well attended with over 600 Aba residents. 70 percent of which were women. Also in attendance were some community women leaders, Chiefs and women led organizations. The people of Aba expressed their gratitude for such an educating and enlightening play that has opened their eyes to the need for the August Meeting and stressed that women play key roles in societal development and should be encouraged. A few who were oblivious of the details of the 1929 Aba Women’s riot were grateful to have learnt what caused the riot and the gains of the the women to the journey thereafter.. The women were inspired to continue the August meeting with more reasons that will be beneficial to their fellow women and the society at large. This movement is pioneered by producer, Chioma Onyenwe, directed by Kenneth Uphopho, written by Paul Ugbede with a cast which includes Gloria Anozie-Young who plays Nwanyereuwa, Bella Rose Okojie, Ijeoma Aniebo, Inna Erizia, Odera Orji and Deola Gimbiya.