Charles Okonji As part of efforts in returning the country to the path of economic growth and development, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu has urged the indigenous and their foreign counterpart operating in the country to embrace locally fabricated technology. Dr. Onu who made this call at the inauguration of the Committee on the Commercialization of Research and Development (R&D) results, Inventions and Innovations in Nigeria, in Abuja over the weekend, noted that there is the need for a new generation of Nigerian businessmen and entrepreneurs, who will depend on indigenous technology and Innovation, in order to fast track economic development. He stated that the country economy should be primarily driven by indigenous business men and women, in order to ensure national security and economic transformation. The Minister expressed optimism in the committee to help in the modalities of diversifying the nation’s economy in an inclusive and sustainable manner. He pointed out that the determination of President Buhari to lift 100 million people out of poverty in 10 years, saying that elevating people out of poverty is a challenge that must be tackled to ensure turnaround in the Nigeria’s economy. Stressing the importance of science and technology in piloting people out of poverty, he said the Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP 2017-2030) places Science, Technology and Innovation as the center of all economic activities in the country and the Ministry would work hard to achieve this feat. “I am confident that the committee will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that Research and Development findings are properly commercialised and converted to products that would be useful to the society,” Onu stressed. Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. Bako Nabasu, said members of the committee were drawn from key stakeholders in the Science, Technology and Innovation industry, as well as the Organized Private Sector (OPS). Nabasu said that the main aim of the committee was to help fast track Research and Development results for the benefit of the country. In his response, the chairman of the committee, Dr. Ekanem Udoh promised that the committee will work tirelessly to surmount the challenges hindering commercialization of Research and Development results, adding that the committee is a vehicle that will not only be used as a catalyst to boosting the fortunes of the country, but will also enhance the Science, Technology and Innovation sector of the Nigerian economy.