Youths and other residents of Apu Mmiri Ubakala in Umuahia South Local Government Area Abia State took to the streets of the state capital in protest of the reported killing of an indigene of the area by yet-to-be-identified Policeman serving in the Abia Command of the Nigeria Police Force. The Nation gathered that the deceased who was identified as Kasarachi Okwuonu Moses, was hit by a stray bullet from a team of Police operatives who were reportedly chasing after members of a suspected armed robbery gang terrorizing the area. The Source said, “The deceased was a middle-aged girl who sold fruits at the roadside. She was also taking care of her aged mother who had been sick. “It is a pity that she died in such a manner as a result of the recklessness of the Policeman. “All we want is justice in this matter. We want the state Police Command to investigate the incident and bring the culprits to book”. The Commissioner of Police in the state Eneh Okon, confirmed the incident but said he was in Abuja for an official assignment when he had of the incident – the deceased died of injuries sustained from a stray bullet. He said, “We got a distress call that armed robbers were operating at Ubakala and SARS operatives responded to the distress call. “But on sighting the SARS operatives, the armed robbers who were 5 in number operating and in military uniform, started shooting at the policemen. “It was during the exchange of gunfire that a stray bullet hit the victim, who later died in the hospital. “One of the suspects dropped his weapon and fled the scene, while the Sienna bus used by the Policemen for the operation had several bullet holes”. Okon added that a panel of inquiry had been set up by the Police to further investigate the incident. He urged members of the public to remain calm as efforts were ongoing to restore peace in the area He assured Abia residents that the State Police Command was working round the clock to ensure they enjoy a peaceful Christmas and New Year celebration.