The Minister of Youth and Sports Development Mr. Sunday Dare has said that the benefit of physical exercise cannot be over emphasised. He said this after participating in an early morning physical exercises organised by the members of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN) in collaboration with the FCT Administration at the Old Parade Ground in Abuja. The Minister said he was at the Old Parade Ground in solidarity with the SWAN for their efforts in reporting sports development in Nigeria to the world, also added that he had to be there because of the immense benefits inherent in physical exercises. He commended the members of the association for realising the importance of physical exercise. “SWAN members are journalists, they professionals, they are not sportsmen and women yet, they realise the importance of physical fitness to their health and that speaks volumes for me and for every one of us that sports is important for our health, and is important for our well-being.” The Minister added that the Ministry and SWAN remain partners in progress in bringing about the desired sports development in the country, and commended the association for the lineup of activities to mark the SWAN week. “I’ve seen the lineup of activities for this week and it is impressive. They have taken time out this week in the next six days to also have time to talk to themselves and to also bring professionals in the field of sports and journalism to talk to them in a refresher way and that is important. From time to time every professional or a professional group needs to take a retreat, take a break, sit down go and put down the pen and learn a few things. I am in full support of your week and ensure the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development will also extend support to SWAN Abuja”, he assured. Calling on Nigerians to imbibe the culture of keeping fit, he said, “I want to use this as a call to every Nigerian household, individuals, schools, communities, churches and mosques. Try and integrate a component of sporting activity into all of your activities. Every weekend we go to party, marriages, weddings, birthdays we spend hours. Let us devote at least 30 minutes to an hour for collective and collegiate sport activities”. He commended the FCT administration for maintaining the facility over the years.