One of the most popular ideologies in the world is the Marxism ideology. Marxism can be said as the legitimate successor of some of the great minds of the people humans in the 19th century, represented by classical German philosophy, British political-economy and French socialism. Marxist ideology was first coined by Karl Marx who opposed capitalist ideology. The theory of Marxist generally focuses on the conflict between the dominant and repressed classes in any given age. Thus, Marxism analyzes class relations and societal conflict using a materialistic interpretation of historical development and dialectical view of social transformation. Marxism is an antithesis of capitalism. The Marxist tradition has had in the past, and continues to have, a profound influence on intellectual and social resistance in Nigeria, despite the pessimism of much of the global left in the ability of ‘grand narratives’ to influence mass social movements. Individual Marxists have made crucial contributions (often at great sacrifice) to the development of resistance. The appeal of Marxism to African literature in particular and world literature in general is contained in its origin from political economy. Man is viewed by a Marxist as a social, economic and political being. Since the African novel has essentially evolved out of the writer’s mandate to reflect socio-political and economic experiences, the postulation of Marxism may assist in its interpretation. Contemporary African writers have joined Marxist movements by writing to fight the status quo in the society. Many African writers, through their creative piece, have written to criticize the government of the day and the faulty structure of governance in the society. This study therefore seeks to examine the Marxist ideology embedded in Olukorede Yishaus’s In the Name of Our Father. In the Name of our Father, Yishau’s debut text, mirrors Nigerian society by showcasing its ugly nakedness. The novel tells the tragic story of a critically sick nation. Ibrahim (2019) observes that Yishau’s novel In the Name of Our Father, from the Marxist perspective, describes religious and military rulers as the dominant class in the society and how they control the traditions, customs and values of the society. From the left-wing critical appraisal, Yishau has used his novel to redeem the society from the money-oriented religious leaders and also to challenge the military rulers who hauntingly enforced their ideologies on the common man. He argues further that ‘Yishau’s novel does not just critique the class and capitalist system in the religious warehouse but also revolutes against the superstructure in the Nigerian society.’ From the Marxist point of view, Olukorede Yishau’s In the Name of our Father expounds basically the brutality that characterizes military governance and/or authorities in Nigerian society; side by side religious despotism which is arguably its key tool in subjugating the masses. Marxism suggests that colonialism is the mother of religion and it is what colonialist used to penetrate Africans. More so, post colonial African society also borrows from this ideology and deploys religion as a superstructure to demoralize the masses. In the text, In the Name of our Father, Yishau attempts to project the post colonial Nigerian society that is plummeted into a baronial excruciation by the insensitive rulers. Meanwhile to properly delineate his motive, he deploys a journalistic approach in the text – carving the portrait of a committed journalist, Justus Omoeko who captures the brutality of the military governance. The text is a Meta-fiction as it has a supporting story within the main story. Hence, there appears to be two narratives: the first is the main story which hovers around the brutality of masses who pose to be the engineer of commoners’ consciousness and this can be seen in the fiendishness of journalist Omoeko. The other story expounds religious indoctrination and its affinity with politics in Nigeria. The characterisation of pastor Jeremiah (also known as Alani) is an obvious instance which is, however, captured by Justus Omoeko (a writer and journalist) in his manuscript ‘Angels live in Heaven’. The manuscript chastises the hypocrisy of religious leaders who parade themselves as the warden of Christian doctrine and also reveals the affinity between religious and political leaders and how religion is often used as a tool not only to exploit but also to tame the consciousness of the plebs from causing a revolution. Meanwhile, religion is not the only tool used here but also military hegemony to silence the people from opposing the misrule of the upper class. Hence the journalist, Omoeko’s encounters is not unconnected with the scripting of his manuscript ‘Angels Live in Heaven’ which exposes religious misconduct in the country. Hence, Omoeko having realised his imprisonment is connected with the transcript has this to say: Until that day it never occurred to me that there was any link between my time in jail and my novella ‘Angels live in heaven’ (sic). It never crossed my mind that my stint in prison had anything to do with the fetish prophet who lied and committed atrocities in the name of the Father…. A young man…revealed to me that it was my refusal to co-operate with them by insisting on publishing that novel ANGELS LIVE IN HEAVEN, that made the Prophet use his contact with General Idoti to implicate me in the coup plot (In the Name of Our Father 226-227). It is very important to mention that the controlling idea of the text via a vis the exploitative tendency of the religious leaders and the Marxist ideology of the relationship between rulers and followers is delineated through Omoeko’s transcript via the characters such as Pastor David and Pastor Jeremiah who parade themselves as sacred beings. Olukorede Yishau in his profession as a media correspondent pricks the consciousness of his readers on why religion should not be considered an absolute platform of truth. The characterisation of these pastors as Yishau interweaves it is an obvious explication of the hypocritical religious realities in contemporary Nigerian society. They are presented in the narrative as ones who see Christianity as a platform to amass the economic value of the county to themselves. Pastor David exploits his followers by giving them false revelation. Religion is seen as the opium of the people as Marx posits (Marx and Engel 39). Pastor David is thus seen tricking his followers, thus: Your mother-in-law is behind the low turnover you’re experiencing in your business. What you need to do to change the face of things is beyond you. There is the need to go into the forest to remove the padlock, with which she has tied your happiness. Don’t worry, I’ll do it for you. Just bring five thousand naira (In the Name of Our Father 27). On another hand, Prophet Jeremiah (the plotter of Justus Omoeko’s imprisonment) is painted as religious exploit who takes the advantage of the selfish leaders whose personal aggrandizement pushes them to such pastor as Jeremiah. An instance is his engagement with General Idoti whom he technically tricks of his wealth. And it is apparent that the capitalist ideology of religion is behind his mission (Ibrahim, 2019). Against the doctrine of Christianity, Jeremiah consults demonic gods for spiritual guidance to reap more exploits. Therefore with omniscient point of view in the novella “Angels Live in Heaven,” Yishau reveals Pastor Jeremiah’s ulterior motive in the following words: “And the picture he got was that of a man scared of even his own shadow, and such people could easily be enslaved. And he was more than prepared to enslave General Idoti under the guise of providing spiritual counseling. He was going to make a super-slave out of him. And in turn he would make billions of Naira. He was not bothered about the morality of what he was about to do. After all, the money belonged to Nigerians, and he was a Nigerian! (In the Name of Our Father, 113) Meanwhile another Pastor Hezekiah is quite distasteful of the government officials and views them as enemies of the masses. He believes they are people motivated mainly by greed and ambition. Criticizing the relationship that exists between Pastor Jeremiah and top political officers. Hezekiah says thus: You know, I’ve lost count of men of questionable characters, people in government who are enemies of the common folk who come here for one request or the other. They would bring plenty of blood money and gifts, and their request are granted” (88). Thus, this shows how dubious the religious leaders are and also how self-centered the political leaders are Also, it is arguable to submit that Nigerian military regime is characterised with a total misrule and disorder that animalises and brutalizes the serfs. It is in this respect that committed Nigerian writers such as Nnimo Bassey, Wole Soyinka, Ezenwa Ohaeto and Tanure Ojaide among others write in different languages such Pidgin, English and indigenous colourations to satirise the atrociousness of military rule and to unveil the highly lopsided Nigerian society. By implication, Yishau follows the path of his predecessors by capturing the savageness of military authority in Nigerian society as well as satirising the dictatorial rule as depicted in the In the Name of our Father. Another basis of Marxist ideology is the examination of social strata in any given society. Ultimately, Marxism being a literary and political praxis posits the clash between two classes, the clash of interest between two classes namely the upper and the Lower class. The upper attempts to subjugate the lower and robs it of its economic values. Howbeit Marxist ideology focuses more on economic values and means of production, the relevance of this work is however precipitated on the ground that religion is a ploy by the ruling class to subjugate the masses through Christian doctrine that eternal gratification is in heaven. Therefore, religion deters the masses from revolting against the bourgeoisie which the religious leaders fall under. It is in this respect that Yishau writes In the of our Father to interrogate the notion of religious exploitation and how it is used in the context of capitalism in Nigeria. Also, there is distinct treatment of the members from classes. Basically, those in the upper class or the rulers are given preferential treatment while the lower class citizens or commoners are maltreated. Hence this is seen in an enthralling chapter ‘Living with General Iya’ where two prisoners namely Justus Omoeko and General Iya. Omoeko is tortured not only by the military personnel but also by mosquitoes in his ward. However, in an attempt by Yishau to evince the vast difference in stratified formation of Nigerian society, we are made to know how decent the prison ward of General Iya (a member of the upper class) is, compared to the journalist, Omoeko’s ward who is a commoner. Yishau clearly demonstrates this through the words of Justus Omoeko when they transfer him to General Iya’s ward. Omoeko comments thus: My room was a paradise compared to where I was coming from. It has a 4 by 4 bed, a table fan, an air-conditioning system which I later found out had been disconnected, and a one-seater chair. As I was left alone in the room, I looked forward to new experiences in this executive prison. I was in high spirits that day. It was exactly a week since I was moved into this guest house, which hitherto was for General Iya alone. The change of environment had really done me a world of good. Although we were not free in the real sense of freedom since there were at least 20 soldiers keeping watch over us, yet I could not but feel free considering where I was coming from (In the Name of Our Father 210). Obviously, from the argument therein, there is a wide range of differences in the treatment of people in the society in relation to social class even when being punished. General Iya, despite being a suspect detained in prison, is treated with utmost respect while the common journalist and writer, Justus Omoeko is tormented and put in an inhuman living condition. Thus, we could see that the living conditions of the two prisoners negate Marxist principles, which ‘propose equality and revolution to bring about a classless society’ (Habib 2005). Furthermore, one central idea to Marxism is revolution; Yishau’s revolutionary intenseness in the text is echoed through the religious indoctrination explored in the manuscript written by Justus Omoeko ‘Angel in Heaven’. The transcript tends to prick the consciousness of the masses to rise against the religious tyranny of the rulers. This is because the central idea of the journalist and writer’s (Justus Omoeko) transcript is the delineation of the consequential quagmire of the masses under the military rulers. All in all, this paper has attempted to examine Olukorede Yishau’s In the of Our Father from Marxist approach while exemplifying how the text condemns the exploitation and brutality of the masses by the religious leaders and military juntas respectively.While the book catalogues various societal ills in the land, Yishau’s obvious controversial choice of the military and Christian faith (he is a Christian) as vehicles to expose and query the myriad of social malaise bedevilling the society is a bold statement that underscores his fearlesnesss as a social critic that has essentially resolved to stand with the people, in pursuit of truth, fairness and justice’ (Dibiana, 2019) like most Marxists.