The Nigerian Army has recognised five soldiers with awards and special promotion for their gallantry in the fight against insurgency in the Northeast. The awards were given at the 2019 Nigerian Army West African Social Activities (WASA) on Monday in Gwoza, Borno State. They (promoted officers) were also given N200,000 each by Governor Babagana Zulum. The two members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) were also recognised for their gallantry and bravery in the fight against insurgency. Chief of Army Staff Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai said that WASA was an age-long tradition of Nigerian army that brings all officers and soldiers together to mark the end of the year and usher in a new year. Gen. Buratai said that the event was also an opportunity to reward the gallantry of personnel in the discharge of their constitutional duties. According to him, Gwoza’s choice for the 2019 edition was an indication that the troops had recorded success in the war against Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast. He praised the personnel for the successes recorded in all other operations across the country and assured them of improved welfare next year. The COAS also commended the field commanders and principal officers for the support and implementation of all the strategic directives. He said: “If you pass directive from the headquarters to the field commanders and they fail to execute it, that directive becomes useless; your operational and tactical capabilities have contributed to the successes recorded so far.” He praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his guidance, support and motivation for the army to have the wherewithal to win all wars as well as the National Assembly for their support. The governor said that activities like WASA could serve as a tool to encourage the troops and boost their mental capacity. Zulum said that the celebration of the annual event by Nigerian army had over the years confirmed its commitment to appreciate and promote diverse cultural diversity in the army. Praising the successes recorded by the military in the war against insurgency in the state, he lauded the effort of the civilian JTF and hunters for their support for the army. He, however, implored the military and other security agencies to redouble their effort with a view to permanently end the scourge of insurgency. The governor also called on the government and army authorities to ensure that the necessary logistics needed was provided for the troops to successfully prosecute the war. He also called for judicious utilisation of resources available to them, urging them to develop the mindset to reduce corruption and sabotage. On his part, the Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Army, Abdulrazak Namdas, said that the successful hosting of WASA in Gwoza, was a confirmation that the Boko Haram has not only been ‘technically defeated but practically defeated’. Namdas lauded the synergy between the army and other paramilitary agencies and urged them to continue in that manner. He took details of the soldiers recognised for their gallantry for onward transmission to the national assembly for recognition.