There was hardly any Nigerian, including President Buhari’s most fanatical supporter, who was not astounded by Senate President Ahmed Lawan’s brutally frank insistence that the president’s $29.9bn loan request would be approved. This was before the loan request was debated. Why then does he resist the conclusion that the 9th National Assembly is a rubber stamp parliament? Speaking to editors on the parliament’s six months of legislative work, he had said: “The question of whether we will pass the loan request of the executive arm of government, yes, we will pass it. If we don’t have money and you have projects to build them, how will you provide infrastructure that you need? But one thing is that, we are going to be critical, that every cent that is borrowed is tied to a project. These are projects that will have spillover effects on the economy and we will undertake our oversight seriously to ensure that such funds are properly, prudently, economically and transparently applied on those projects.” And if anyone wondered why the loan request, first presented in 2016, was not approved, here is why, according to Sen Lawan: “In 2016, the Senate did not pass the loan request of the Executive at that time and the reason was because there were no sufficient details. I want to inform this gathering and indeed Nigerians that the letter conveying the loan request of the Executive came with every possible detail and in fact we will ensure that we are getting the right information from the Executive arm of Government. So, the situation is not the same. In 2016, there was no submission of details. This time, I think the executive has learnt its lesson and the letter came with sufficient details.” Has Sen Lawan forgotten that the president scurrilously dismissed the 8th NASS for rejecting the loan because of bad, confrontational politics? So, now, it was really all because of insufficient details? It is clear from the illogic of Sen Lawan and the do-nothing 9th NASS that Nigerians are in for a hard time, since bills will henceforth be approved without discrimination, critical reasoning, and debate. The country will need a miracle to escape being bankrupted before the next polls.