Osagie Otabor, Benin  Deputy Governor of Edo State, Hon Philip Shaibu, has expressed optimism that the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in 2020’s governorship poll would be seamless. Hon Shaibu said some members of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State underrated Governor Obaseki without knowing that he (Obaseki) is a man of strong will. Speaking at an end of year party organised for journalists in the state, Shaibu stated that those flexing muscles with Obaseki would soon join them as one APC family. Shaibu said the party was to thank God for giving his protection and to show appreciation to journalists. “Everywhere I go to I always identify with the press because of what they did to me when I needed them most. “If that journalist had not revealed that there are still some young men after Gani Fawehinmi and others were released from Gusau prison, then maybe I will not be alive today. We would have been executed during the military but that pen that he put to paper saved our lives. So, you can see I do not have any choice that to celebrate all of you that are here today. “I want to thank all of you on behalf of the governor, he deeply appreciates what you have been doing for us. There are some persons that have been intimidated by others, but you stand strong because you believe in the wake and see governor and by the grace of God the wake and see will be taken to the next level. “Everything we are doing in this government is backed by law so that when lazy people come to government tomorrow they will not pass what has already been established. “All these efforts that we have put in place and all the achievements that we have had; it is not because we are superhuman but because we are supported. And I want to continue to count on that support and reassure you that Edo state will continue to be forward ever and backward never. “And those things that make Edo state to be on autopilot in terms of development, we shall continue to put them in place. And if there are other things you feel we can do, you know we are always open, let us know because for us to continue doing those good things we must rely on your input. “We have decided that governance must return to the people. The people must lead and the people’s voice must be heard. “By the grace of God, 2020 will be the most peaceful election and the victory of Obaseki shall be seamless. Do not worry about all the disturbances you are hearing, it will calm soon.”