By Olaitan Ganiu The demise of veteran Nollywood actor, Samuel Akinpelu aka Alabi Yellow, last Sunday sent shock-waves among his fans and colleagues. In March, Alabi Yellow was down with a stroke-related complication and hospitalized, few weeks after the demise of his wife. The actor, 62, passed away in his home at Ikorodu, Lagos. Alabi Yellow’s ill-health video went viral on the internet after the decease publicly appeals for support. The video caught the attention of popular philanthropist, Reverend Esther Ajayi, popularly known as Iya Adura and her husband Dr. Ademuyiwa Ajayi and donated 10m for the ailing actor, in April. The donation comes after the philanthropist support another ailing Yoruba actor, Babatunde Omidina, popularly called ‘BabaSuwe’ who was down with an unknown ailment. However, he was reported to have been moved to an undisclosed hospital to continue treatment and many had thought was on the path to recovery but fans were shocked to receive his death news. The artistic actor, who usually immortalised the character of a chatty in movies, had been away from the limelight for sometimes. He was last seen in a movie, ‘Mokalik’ produced by a prolific filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan. Kunle Afolayan, in a post on Instagram, said he would have related with the death just to make the veteran actor stay alive. “I just wish I knew how to relate with death and human demise but the honest truth is that I don’t,” he posted. “I have always wanted to work with the veteran Alabi yellow since TK and I discussed having him in a film titled ‘Dog on a lion’s trail’ over 15 years ago but the project didn’t take off for some reason.” According to him reconnecting and working with the veterans in the industry is something he is passionate about: “My featuring the likes of Papalolo, Baba Eda, Baba Gebu, Aderupoko and the late Alabi Yellow in Mokalik. I believe his sojourn in life has fully fulfilled the essence of why he was created. On behalf of the entire Golden Effects team, we hope the Almighty grants his entire family the grace and fortitude to bear this huge loss.” For sultry actress Foluke Daramola fans and media houses should learn how to celebrate celebrities when they are still alive, hale and hearty. “Today is the first time media houses will acknowledge how much Alabi Yellow has invested in the make-believe world. I am sure this is the 1st and about the last time, he will be acknowledged as an actor! Such irony it’s in his grave. Where am going is let’s all learn to celebrate people when they are alive, hale and hearty. Goodnight Alabi Yellow, indeed we have lost another veteran actor.” Alabi Yellow appeared in several Yoruba movies and also wrote a book titled, ‘A ba Oko Ku’.