The over $60 billion turnover recorded in the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) Forex Window in 2019 has surpassed stakeholders’ expectation and raised new hopes for continuous stability of the Naira. Launched by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in April 2018, the window is not only a boost to forex liquidity, it has boosted foreign capital inflows into the economy, writes COLLINS NWEZE  Not many investors  local and international gave it any chance to succeed when it was unveiled. But 29 months after, the Investors’ and Exporters’ (I&E) Forex window, launched by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in April 2017, has attracted over $60 billion to the economy. It has also remained one of the key instruments expected to help stabilise the local currency against other currencies. The I&E Forex window, seen as a ‘willing buyer, willing-seller window’, allows foreign investors to bring in dollars into the economy at any price of their choice, provided they could find buyers at such rate. The figure at the window has also impacted positively on the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele said the I&E Forex window is one of the policies that sustained the stability of the naira and will continue to raise foreign capital inflows into the economy. He said at the 54th Annual Bankers Dinner in Lagos at the weekend, that as part of the bank’s priorities for next year, the regulator is determined to maintain its stable exchange policy stance in the near to medium term given the relatively high level of reserves. Emefiele, who spoke on the theme: “Delivering a strong Sustainable Growth for the Nigerian  Economy”, added that the dollar inflows through the window  have supported naira’s stability. He said: “With a moderated inflation rate, positive Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth and improvements in our external reserves position, the naira-dollar exchange rate at the I&E Forex window has remained stable for the past 29 months at N360 – $1 and we have witnessed significant convergence in the exchange rate across the various market windows. Local currency has also remained at N306 to dollar at the official market.” A report by FSDH Research, said that prior to the I&E Forex window introduction, the market and exchange rates were in turmoil. However, in a dramatic turn of events, the acute shortage of forex which businesses and individuals grappled with, witnessed an unprecedented improvement, with banks and Bureaux de Change (BDCs) now desperately looking for forex buyers. The FSDH Research Monthly Economic and Financial Market Outlook, said the positive domestic  and external environment will  further lead to external  reserves accretion  in  the short-term, a development the report predicted, will further stabilise the foreign exchange rate.  Defending the Naira The CBN injected over $10.97 billion into the foreign exchange market between January and October, last year to defend the naira against other major currencies, including the US dollar. Similar interventions have been injected to the market within same period of this year. The $10.97 billion was based on weekly compilation of amount released by the apex bank to boost liquidity in the foreign exchange market. The CBN usually intervenes in the foreign exchange market by injecting liquidity about three times a week. The intervention is provided to authorised dealers in the wholesale segment of the market as well as other sectors of the economy such as agriculture, manufacturing and the Small and Medium Enterprise segment. Customers that required foreign exchange for invisible things such as tuition fees, medical bills and Basic Travel Allowance are also allocated funds from the intervention.  Before I&E Forex window Before the introduction of the forex window, the local equities market and the foreign exchange (forex) market were in shambles.  The All Share Index (ALSI) was continuously shrinking and the naira weakened against other currencies, especially the dollar. The I&E window has become the attraction, making many of the business concerns to take another look at their exit from the country. The introduction of the window was followed by continuous interventions by the CBN which enabled banks and BDC operators to meet forex demand at the retail end of the market. Thus, the window has become a life-saving pill for the domestic economy as it has attracted about $60 billion into the market, enhanced transparency and made forex available to the end-users. The operations of companies, especially manufacturing, has been on the upward swing with an improvement in inflation figures as well as equities market performance. Before the stability in the forex market and naira, the economy witnessed a depressed Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, which culminated in a recession in 2016. “There was also rising inflation, which peaked at almost 19 per cent in January 2017 and a persistently rising unemployment rate to 14.23 per cent in 2016 fourth quarter from 6.41 per cent as at 2014 fourth quarter. There was also a significant depreciation of the exchange rate, reaching N525 to $1 in February 2017 and witnessed a fast depletion of the reserves which was drained down from about $23.6 billion in October 2016 from as high as $40 billion in January 2014. A  Lagos-based economist and Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, described the introduction of the I&E forex window as the best policy implemented by the CBN. Speaking on the issue, CBN’s Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okorafor, reiterated the bank’s commitment to ensure adequate forex supply to genuine customers to achieve the goal of forex rates convergence. Managing Director, Afrinvest West Africa Plc, Ike Chioke, said the window has won the confidence of foreign investors. He said the window attracted foreign investors’ appetite for Nigerian assets leading to impressive appreciation in the equities market and stabilising the naira. Before the introduction of the window, foreign investors’ appetite for local assets waned significantly on the back of currency crisis which in turn fundamentally weakened macroeconomic performance, dragged corporate earnings and also impacted on equities market viability. According to the CBN spokesman, forex supply to the window shall be through portfolio investors, exporters, authorised dealers and other parties with foreign currency to exchange to naira. The apex bank is a market participant at the window to promote liquidity and professional market conduct. He said that the apex bank assured that the exchange rates of the transactions would be as agreed between authorised dealers and their counterparties. Besides, he said the regulator reserved the right to intervene as a buyer or seller, as it deems fit, in the window, even as information on transactions between authorised dealers is reported to the CBN on a daily basis. Manufacturers and other foreign exchange (forex) end-users also seem to be having a great time over the coming of the window. Barely a month after trading at the window commenced operation, international credit rating agency, Fitch Ratings, released a report, stating that the establishment of the I&E Forex window had led to an improvement in banks’ forex liquidity situation.  Currency control measures The CBN has imposed some currency control measures to save the naira. In June 2016, it curbed access to the interbank currency market for importers bringing in a variety of goods. In an effort to conserve its dollar reserves, the bank said importers could no longer get hard currency to buy 41 items, ranging from toothpicks and rice to steel products and private jets. Other measures it took include the first Naira-Settled Over-the-Counter (OTC) Forex Futures Market (FFM) launched with FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange and the planned resumption of dollar sales to the BDCs. 