  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the security agencies to question leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over violence and killings that characterised the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. The party said its call for action against the APC leaders followed emerging revelations that certain APC leaders were behind the gruesome killings and bloody violence that marred elections in the two states. A statement on Tuesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said demand came on the heels of “shocking attempts” by the APC to dismiss nationwide calls for electoral reforms, with allusions by its spokesperson, Lanre Issa-Onilu, that ‘no amount of reform’ can help PDP’s outcry and demand for violence-free election in Nigeria. The statement said, “By gloating and interpreting national and international concerns over bloodletting and violence in our elections as PDP’s ‘malady’, the APC has further confirmed apprehensions that it is the mastermind of the horrific violence and forceful invasion of polling units to aid their rigging plots. “Our party invites Nigerians to note that only a mastermind and beneficiary of a crime would seek ways of dismissing, covering or diverting attention from the crime. “By its statement, the APC has confirmed that it is indeed a soulless mob, a marauder and murderous pillager, which has no iota of regard for the life of Nigerians; thriving only on violence, knowing that there is no way it can win in a free, fair and credible election. “It is now no longer strange that APC leaders have been trying every means to frustrate investigations into the bloody brigandage the agents of the APC  unleashed in the elections, in which about 10 Nigerians were reportedly beheaded in Bayelsa while over 22 others were felled in Kogi, including an innocent mother, Mrs. Salome Abuh, who was burnt alive in her home by APC agents. “It is also no longer strange that in spite of the condemnation of the brutal murder of Mrs. Salome Abuh and calls for arrest of the culprits by Nigerians and the international community, the perpetrators are being shielded by the APC”. The PDP described claims by the police that those behind the gruesome killing of Mrs Abuh as false and accused the leaders of the APC of dancing naked on the graves of innocent persons that were killed during the elections. “Nigerians now have more insight into why persons, who were claimed to have been arrested by security agencies in connection with the crime, have neither been paraded nor arraigned before any court of competent jurisdiction. “While Nigerians are still mourning the gruesome killings of compatriots in the two states, the APC leaders are dancing naked on the graves of the victims by trying to divert public attention from the crime while giving official cover to arsonist and murderers who the APC deployed to kill voters, snatch and stuff ballot boxes. “By APC comments against genuine effort to end electoral violence in our country, it is clear that certain APC leaders indeed need to come clean on their roles in plotting and executing of violence in the elections”, the statement added. The PDP said it would continue to remain a law-abiding party committed to the wellbeing of Nigerians and will continue to support all genuine efforts by stakeholders to end electoral violence as well as bring perpetrators to book.