Ailing Nigeria football international and veteran coach Kadiri Ikhana was full of smiles when former footballer turned politician Tajudeen Ajide paid him a get well visit after two successful hip surgeries at Alliance Hospital in Abuja. Ajide, who stared for defunct Lagos side; Prime Stars, and now incumbent chairman of Surulere Local Government, led other ex-internationals and officers of Players Union to offer solidarity with their senior, Ikhana, who won the Nigerian league with Bendel Insurance in1979 and the FA Cup in 1978 and 1980 also played for the Green Eagles in 1980. Alongside Commissioner for Agric, Youths, Sports & Social Development, Surulere LG, Taju Disu; Secretary of Players Union, Austin Popo, and other ex-footballers, Ajide spent quality time with the former Enyimba coach and donated a princely sum of N250, 000 to help the family meet the hospital bill. He further promised to lift Ikhana with N1miilion when he returns home for stability. Ajide, who is also patron of Players Union, is known for his strong backing for ex-footballers. Some beneficiaries of his kind heartedness are Peter Anieke, Peter Fregene, Sylvester Egbogie and Yomi Peters. Ikhana welcomed with pleasure the stopover and kind gesture of Ajide whom he jocularly called ‘my junior.’ “Apart from the accolade that he is a footballer, the fact is that he is a politician with tight schedule, but he still found time to come down to see his senior colleague that is down. It is a privilege for me to have him around and I think others should emulate the good thing he is doing, especially to old footballers. They should emulate him and come to the assistance of ailing footballers. Femi Otedola is not a footballer and he has assisted me. We have many footballers in the capacity to help and we must rise up to help ourselves. I’m proud of this visit and I will never forget it. For him to remember that someone is dying here and coming all the way from Lagos to see me is great. He said he’s giving me some money and when he mentioned the amount I’m surprised. I couldn’t believe it. He gave me N250,000 cash and promised that when I’m out of the hospital, he would support me with N1million. I can’t believe it. When you are in this kind of health challengem, to recoup is very difficult, but he has seen beyond now and I am grateful.” Concerning his ailment and current state of health, Ikhana said: “I have spent about 30 days here now and I tell you vividly that both of my legs have been worked on. I have undergone hip replacement surgeries and I feel much better now. I can sit now and I do not feel much pain again. When I was first brought here I could not even stand on my legs but right now I don’t feel that pain again. I will be undergoing a third surgery in some weeks and hope to be fully back on my feet in a couple of weeks.” While urging Ikhana to get back on his feet in no time, Ajide said he would continue to assist footballers during their difficult times. “I am a footballer at heart and will forever be one. I will continue to identify with footballers because I am one of them.”