 THE faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State loyal to the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Friday defied the ban placed on rallies by the state government. A mega rally held by the faction at the premises of a former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, saw him defecting to the ruling APC alongside other prominent members of the opposition party. A statement issued by the Secretary to the Edo State Government (SSG), Barrister Osarodion Ogie, earlier had announced a “total and complete” ban on all political rallies, demonstrations or procession in any part of the state. It also directed all security agencies to deal firmly with all persons who breached the directive, no matter how highly placed. Ogie said the state government had made clear its position that the “plans by some identified mischief-makers to organise an unauthorised political rally in Bénin City was capable of leading to breakdown of public peace and (constitute) danger to the persons and property of Edo citizens.” The statement warned property owners that any venue used for activities that breached the order would have its right of occupancy immediately revoked and forfeited to the state government. Ogie said the state government would not allow anyone to turn the state into a battlefield. There were reports yesterday that a clash between Oshiomhole’s supporters and those of Obaseki in Benin City on Thursday left no fewer than 15 people injured; a development the state government described as “a scary prelude to the absolute mayhem which these irresponsible activities would generate if left unchecked.” Although the much publicised rally could not hold at the proposed Garrick Memorial School ground in Benin City, it was nonetheless moved to the private residence of Ize-Iyamu. While Oshiomhole was absent from the rally, it was attended by APC chieftains loyal to him. At the rally, Pastor Ize-Iyamu and other defectors were received into the APC by the factional Chairman of the APC, Col. David Imuse (rtd), present them with a broom, which is the symbol of the party. Imuse said the coming of Ize-Iyamu and his supporters from the 18 local government areas would add value to the party. He said: “We are here to celebrate the homecoming of our brothers and sisters from the PDP who have come to add value to our party; and not only to add value, they are coming to make our party grow from strength to strength so that we can win at all levels.” Addressing the rally, Ize-Iyamu debunked rumours that he was joining the APC to make trouble. He said he has already joined the APC as required by party regulations at his Ugboko Ward in Orhionnwon Local Government Area. He said: “For those who are in doubt, the moment I made up my mind to join the APC, I went to my ward, and I am proud to say I have registered in Ugboko Ward in Orhionmwon Local Government Area. “By the grace of God, APC will grow from strength to strength. “We want to extend hand of peace. We are not here (APC) to fight anyone. We have come to be your friends.” Some chieftains of the APC at the rally include Hon Pally Iriase, Raza Bello-Osagie, Tony Omoaghe, Victor Edoror and Dr. Pius Odubu, among others.  I stayed away on my own volition, says Oshiomhole APC faithful in their thousands yesterday stormed the residence of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu in Benin City to formally welcome him into the party. The party had planned to use the field of a private school in the city, Garrick Memorial College for the rally to welcome lze lyamu, but the government banned political rallies in the state and warned that any private school that flouted the ban would have its certificate of occupancy revoked. The lnspector General of Police also directed the Edo State Police Command to ensure that the rally did not hold owing to pockets of demonstration by some youths on Thursday in Benin against the event. But on Friday, Organisers of the event shifted it to the GRA Benin residence of lze-Iyamu. The event held amid singing and dancing by his supporters from the 18 local government areas of the state. APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who arrived in Benin City on Thursday for the rally, stayed away. He said he did not want those opposed to the rally to capitalise on his presence to cause mayhem, hence he said he stayed away on his own volition. However, the state government, through Mr Crusoe Osagie, the media adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki, said in a press statement that the rally flopped and that Oshiomhole was placed under arrest. Oshiomhole on his part said it was clear that those opposed to the rally planned to cause mayhem and then blame it on him. “To forestall their evil plan, the event was moved to lze-Iyamu’s residence and l stayed away. It held peacefully.” “The huge crowd at the event attests to its success,” he said. 