Comrade Zulu Ofoelue is the chairman of Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) Enugu chapter.  He was the one that hosted the last international convention held in the coal city.  In this interview with Edozie Udeze, he makes it clear that ANA as a body is bigger than individuals and divisive tendencies and that concerted efforts must be made to promote the collective interests of Nigerian writers  When you were billing to host this convention last year in Lagos, what were your initial fears? Well, our initial fears were the kind of fears that are usual with any chapter that wishes to host this august body every year.  This is so because there are usually great expectations that involve the programmes, the events that take place during the convention.  And these programmes usually need to be funded and supported.  So the fundamental fear is normally that of funding.  We were not actually scared of organizing our programmes as writers, authors, being able to create suitable programmes that would suit our guests.  No, in that regard we were not scared.  We were not also scared of how to welcome our guests, colleagues and friends from all over Nigeria and the world.  You know we are creative writers and so creating good events, laudable programmes, is not a big deal to us.  Fund raising has always been a fundamental issue, not just peculiar to one chapter.  Last year in Lagos, the Lagos branch had issues; they also had problems concerning funding, sponsorship and sorts.  Most other branches often face the same problem.  Often, some are lucky to overcome it and then the hosting becomes smoother, easier.  There were times some chapters tried to raise money from some quarters but basically that fear of how to surmount that problem was what we were confronted with. So, how did you surmount the problem; that initial fear of who would fund the convention? Oh, I wouldn’t even say we were able to overcome that issue of funding.  No!  We didn’t get as much funding as we had expected to get.  We had expected and hoped that some individuals, corporate bodies and even the state government would partner with us to make this a grand occasion for Nigerian writers. However, the government of Enugu State did not participate in the programme at all.  Not even at the level of sending a representative to the opening ceremony.  The government didn’t get involved; it did not even attend the programme; a programme of this magnitude happening in the state 38 years after it was first formed here in the state, with the Late Professor Chinua Achebe and other prominent Nigerian writers.  Even then we tried to approach the state government several times, reminding the people in-charge that Enugu State, and not only Enugu ANA was going to have over 500 delegates, writers, authors, personalities from all over the world converging on the coal city for this auspicious annual event, yet the people concerned did not heed our calls.  We needed therefore to put heads together to ensure that this convention came out fine.  And that people who came here were safe, secured and generally feel at home.  Enugu is a peaceful state, but you can never write off the issue of security.  The governor is the Chief Security Officer of the state and you cannot therefore write off the issue of hospitality for which Enugu State is known.  But the state did not do any of these.  But eventually we had some of our members who came in.  And you know we are not too rich.  Most of our members are lecturers, teachers and writers and so on.  We were able to get people who helped us to get funds here and there to tackle some of the teething problems of hosting a convention of this nature.  Little by little we got to this level.  But there were bigger things we would have loved to do.  Then we couldn’t meet up because of lack of adequate funding and it is so unfortunate. So from the attendance, what is your appraisal…? Well, I think it has been very successful so far.  So far, so good.  From the welcome programme it has been good.  In fact after the welcome ceremony, most of the delegates came to me and said, you did well.  Oh, it was the best welcome and opening ceremony they have ever witnessed since they have been attending ANA conventions.  Most of the people who said this are older ANA members who have been attending several conventions.  So, it was heart-warming despite the initial fears as I said before.  We had the opening ceremony on Friday, people also attested it was good.  The play we had yesterday which is in adaptation of Death and The King’s Grey Hair by the out gone president, Denja Abdullahi had been performed up to 12 times across the country.  But the performance yesterday was so excellently done, for the playwright himself attested to that fact.  It was the best of the play that had been done anywhere on stage.  That also gave kudos to our own level of creativity in the best way we could as writers. So, so far, we have had a successful convention.  So, it gives you that idea that sometimes the issue of success is not entirely tied to riches, tied to money, but about creativity, about the passion you have for what you do.  Your ability to execute what you have in mind also helps you to achieve a lot in life. Now how did you gather the artistes that acted the play yesterday? Oh yes, those actors and actresses are students of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN).  They are students of the department of Theatre Arts from different levels.  We have in ANA Enugu, so many theatre artistes as members, so many of them.  And this was their game; their familiar terrain.  We were able to reach out to the UNN authorities through these members.  Besides, UNN is a partner in this convention.  It also became easier to have that arrangement and to have the students prepare well ahead of time.  Someone like Dr. Greg Mbajiorgu, a lecturer in the department of Theatre Arts of UNN is here now; he is also one of the most formidable members of ANA.  He helped to ensure the students did well and were in the right mood to make this a huge success.  Even though we are not all theatre arts experts, but if I have to rate them, I should ask the department to graduate all the students (laughs).  What other exams do they need? Now 38 years after, ANA is coming back to Enugu where it was formed in 1981.  This is why it is themed home-coming.  Why did it take Enugu so long to host ANA convention again? Yes, I agree with you.  It took long, so, so long for ANA to return back to Enugu.  It actually took so long.  ANA was formed at Nsukka 38 years ago and now we are in the coal city, capital of Enugu State to host the 38 edition of the yearly convention.  May be it appeared ANA had to go round the country including the Federal Capital territory of Abuja before it again returned to Enugu.  That’s what it seemed.  Enugu had the capacity to host ANA events even before now.  But the most important aspect of every gathering where a large number of people are, is the serenity of the city; its surroundings and so on.  This is what Enugu has going for it.  The peaceful nature of the city; its organized and orderly pattern also matter.  These are qualities Enugu possess so much.  And I think this is one issue everyone who came to attend a programme here equally attest to.  So, I think it took so long…  It does not necessarily matter how long took; it is good that ANA eventually came back to the state 38 years after.   This is why it is called homecoming and it sounds good; it is real and epochal.  And we in Enugu really feel delighted to have ANA back here this year; this moment.  However, in-between the 38 years, we had had ANA visit Enugu in different capacities and for different purposes.  ANA was here during the 50th anniversary of Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart.  That was at Nsukka and it was also a very massive programme, with an unbelievable huge crowds that gathered to pay homage to the book, and to the father of African modern literature.  It was not a convention, but a colloquium held on the significance of the book 50 years after.  As at today, we hope to receive ANA often more times.  It is good to have members around to discuss issues, rub minds and find ways to move forward. Why didn’t you stagger the venues but limited yourself to only the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT)? There were a number of issues involved in that regard.  We have a number of institutions of higher learning in Enugu town.  These places are usually the best venues to host conventions of this caliber.  The places are suitable for academic events.  So, we looked around, we have the University of Nigeria, Enugu campus, we have IMT and other places like ESUT.  We also have so many private institutions.  But IMT is the most central of them all.  Just like UNEC is, yet we discovered IMT has newer, magnificent auditorium which can host a crowd more conveniently with modern facilities.  This is the international conference centre which represented what we had in mind.  Like I said before, lack of adequate funding also became an issue.  We may have issues conveying people from venue to venue particularly guests who are not used to the city.  But then not all the programmes held at IMT.  The opening ceremony was at the Sunshine Hotel, New Haven, Enugu.  We will have the dinner at Olivegate hotel.  Also Professor Nweze of IMT gave us the hall free.  We did not pay for the two days we used the place.  That’s their own partnership and you can see their name on the list of partners for the programme.   