By Sampson Unamka Dignitaries, including Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Minister of Information Lai Mohammed; Nollywood celebrities; and others, last Sunday, dazzled at the premiere of Ebonylife Films’ sizzling new political comedy, Your Excellency. The premiere held at the new state-of-art entertainment complex, EbonyLife Place, on Victoria Island, Lagos. Written by Yinka Ogun, with Isioma Osaje, and produced by James Amuta, the movie will be in cinemas nationwide from December 13. Directed by award-winning actress and content producer Funke Akindele, Your Excellency tells the story of Chief Olalekan Ajadi (Akin Lewis), a bumbling billionaire businessman and failed presidential candidate obsessed with Donald Trump, with his aesthetic dance moves and gaffes. Just when his campaign looks set to be another disaster, Ajadi is appointed by a major party and becomes a credible contender through the power of social media. It appeared that Ajadi, a perpetual loser, written off by everyone, can pose a serious challenge for the presidency. The movie shows how politics and the high influence of social media shape the society. The cast includes Funke Akindele, Lala Akindoju, Shaffy Bello, Kunle Coker, Eku Edewor, Alex Ekubo, Oreka Godis, Osas Ighodaro, Mike Iheuwa, Seyi Law, Akin Lewis, Bimbo Manuel, Deyemi Okanlawon, Ini Dima-Okojie, Chioma ‘Chigul’ Omeruah, Emmanuel OMG, Ikechukwu Onunaku, Helen Paul,Toni Tones and Rapper Falz, in a cameo appearance.  After viewing the movie at the newly built EbonyLife cinema, which was also launched by Chief Executive Officer Mo Abudu, Governor Sanwo-Olu commended the team. He said: “It was fun, it speaks real fact on some of the current issues we have, it was well put together, well scripted and I will recommend everyone to go out there and watch it. Not only to support our own, not only to support our industry, but it is a good cause and time, especially in this festive season. We would certainly be supporting them.” Lai Mohammed applauded the production crew, saying: “Well, you see acting imitates life, and all the film says is that these things will happen, of course it was exaggerated but then these are things that could happen.” Reviewing the movie, politician Jimi Agbaje said: “It was definitely a lovely time I had, I think the only missing part which I think for us is that it didn’t have the rough side, it didn’t have the violence, not having the rigging, ballot box and the actions. I think the message in the film is that the people’s vote counted, they voted for Ajadi and got their candidate, and for me it is good. We all hope for that in Nigeria, that is what we are praying for and we should work towards it”, said Agbaje. Some other celebrities at the event were JJC Skillz, Ramsey Nouah, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, Rita Dominic, Mai Atafo, Sen. Florence Ita Giwa, Toyin Abraham, Ufuoma McDermott, Omoni Oboli, Osas Ighodaro, Omotola Jalade Ekeinde. Others are Ini Dima Okojie, Toke Makinwa Michelle Dede,  Layole Oyatogun, Omowunmi Dada, Denola Grey, Omoni Oboli, Marcy Dolapo, Omawumi, Chioma Akpotha, Wale Ojo and Uzo Osimkpa.