By Ozolua Uhakheme Assistant Editor Arts  Managing Director and CEO, ZMirage Multimedia Company Alhaji Olateju Kareem has been conferred with a Doctor of Philosophy (Honoris Causa) in Public Administration by the EDEXCEL University, based in Ifangni town, a few kilometers from the Nigeria-Benin border. He was honoured alongside eight other recipients recently at Porto Novo for his years of committed and selfless service to the country’s creative industry sector. In the letter of nomination, the Council of the university said the theatre technician was considered worthy of the award because of his “relentless service to the good of the people of the Republic.” The ceremony was held in the course of the university’s 2019 Matriculation, Convocation and Honorary Award Programme at the Palace Bayol (Cultural Centre) of the city of Porto Novo. It was witnessed by a roomful of eminent guests in the academia of both Benin and Nigeria; parents and guardians of some of the graduating and matriculating students. Also honoured with the Doctorate award were Mrs. Oluwatosin Oluwafunmilola Rebecca of Zakah Tower Altawun Sarjah, United Arab Emirate; Mr. Maxwell Weliodun, Chairman MBA Group, Abuja; Mr Peters Ede Agida, Chief Operations Officer, MBA Forex and Capital Investment, Lagos; Mr. Muyiwa Olalekan Oladotun of Nigeria Immigration Services, Abeokuta; Dr Philemon Audu Mairabo, Consultant, National Board of Technical Education, Nigeria; Dr. Agbara Michael, Comptroller of Customs Services, Idiroko Command; Dr. Amani Danjuma Peniel, President and founder, IBT, University Lome, Togo; Mr. Oluwarotimi Akanbi Ibiyode, CEO, Roxfort International Consult, Lagos; Gille Bokpe of Benin Republic and Christopher Areghan Eichie based in Abuja. President and Chancellor of the university, Prof Emmanuel Odeh Ogbeh, urged Kareem to continue with his “selfless service to the cause of humanity; and urged the students to emulate such virtues of service. He stressed that the university’s motto remains “Education for Innovation and Self-Reliance as this is the only way Africa can liberate itself from its many challenges.  The school, he said, is affiliated to over 40 institutions of higher learning “to ensure quality assurance”. Founded in Nigeria in 2009 as the Institute of Business Technology Management of Nigeria, the school relocated and was upgraded to a full university status in Benin Republic in April 2014. Past recipients of the award include: His Royal Highness Alhaji (Dr.) Sule Gambari, Emir of Ilorin and Chancellor Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka Anambra State (2008); His Excellency Ibrahim Shekarau, former governor of Kano state, 2008;  and His Excellency, Alhaji Mahmud Aliyu Shinkafi, former governor of Zamfara State, 2010 among others. Among the contributions cited in his name were: technical direction of the visit of Pope Francis to the Republic in 2011, which was considered groundbreaking; Technical Producer SICA and CIOFF (International Council of Organisations of Folklore Festival and Folk Arts), Cotonou 2012; Technical producer Miss Benin; Technical Producer Miss Malaika Benin Republic, which changed the character of such showbiz event in the republic – it was adjudged the best of such an event in the history of the country; Director General International of Igbale Aiye, a UNESCO heritage site; coordination of the campaign and eventual investiture of then President Boni Yayi in 2013, said to be an experiential event that is yet to be equaled; the staging of the Miss Malaika Beauty Pageant. (Please see cited Profile below) Present at the investiture were Doctor Bonny Botoku, CEO Multiple Vision Nigeria Limited and Secretary/Translator Benin-Nigeria Interborder Relations, who is also convener of the yearly African Integration Festival; Mr. Oladipo Okeowo, CEO Oaklandit ventures, and Mr. Jahman Oladejo Anikulapo, culture curator and communicator and former editor of The Guardian on Sunday.