By Rodiyah Omotoyosi Mikail  Everyone gets nervous on a Monday morning as we all look at the long week ahead. This fateful Monday was no different. It would have been a typical Monday morning but for the knock that came on my door just as I made to leave my room for work. The knock was weak and listening to it, I could almost guess who was behind the door. True to my thoughts, in came my neighbour, looking as haggard as always with her malnourished-looking baby in her arms. From the look on her face, ‘oga’, as we call her husband, had struck again. She sat there looking thoroughly defeated as I offered her a cup of water. That was when I noticed the finger marks on her cheek, a confirmation of my earlier thinking. This is the routine she follows every time. This time, though, he seems to have really crushed her spirit if her posture was anything to judge from. I allowed her to relax and get comfortable, not minding that I was already running late for work before I finally threw the question: “What happened Martha?” She looked up at me and her eyes brimmed over with unshed tears. Her chin quivered as she struggled to rein in her tears. “The usual Tea… the usual.” I nodded slowly as the realisation of what had happened dawned on me. Martha is a thirty-something-year-old woman, a mother of four and needless to say, unhappily married. Martha’s first husband had died five years ago, leaving her with two children and a bulging pregnancy. She had been a full-time housewife before his death and while she was undergoing the traditional widow rites, which lasted over two months, she had been forced to rely completely on his family for provisions. After she came out of seclusion, which was the last of the rites, she had been made to marry her late husband’s brother, leaving her with no choice in the matter. The husband lives in the city with his family while Martha, although now married to him, lives in their little town with her kids. Although she had learned fashion designing, he refuses to buy her the necessary pieces of equipment while still not providing enough for the family.  Oga, as he is called, comes home to them once in a month and while he is around, the children and their mother are miserable. He is irritable, snaps at everything and doesn’t hesitate to use the rod on any of them, including the mother. While they may not have enough to eat for the three weeks he is away, everyone is happy. They make do with their little provisions and Martha does odd jobs here and there to make ends meet. Martha complains that her husband, a furniture maker, has given indications that he has no intentions to educate her two girls beyond secondary school they are at present. And although she wants all her children educated to make up for her own lack of it, she apparently lacks the capacity to do so. Meet Martha, your average girl, who has had her journey mapped out by her father since birth. Her decisions have been made for her by her father, brother, husband, husband’s family and now, again, husband. Why? Because apparently, she is the weaker vessel who is incapable of making her own decisions. According to her society, Martha is a liability. She is neither allowed to make her own decisions nor contribute to the family, talk more of the society. She is expected to be silent and submissive. She is not allowed to have opinions. Her sole responsibility is childbearing and when one husband dies, she is passed to another, without her consent. This is Martha and she represents a good number of women in our society today. While their conditions may not be the same as Martha’s, they all are from the same root, the classification of women whom have accepted the society to dictate their ways of life. Like Martha, thousands of women from all over the world especially in my country, suffer from physical, mental and emotional abuse and torture. As it is, no religion, tradition, culture or law supports the subjugation of women. Every religion and culture of the world preaches the respect and dignity of the female gender in their own differing ways. The Nigerian government does not help the matters by rejecting the draft of a 2005 bill that seeks to domesticate the Beijing Declaration and the 1985 Nairobi Convention on Violence Against Women. Without the domestication, seeking full justice at the Nigerian court will only be a joke because it is yet to be a part of the national legal framework, so it is not enforceable within the country. Even though, they come with promises during the electoral year of ensuring gender equality. It has only been a facade. Rodiyah Omotoyosi Mikail is a 300-Level student of Law, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto 