By John Austin Unachukwu  ARE the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy (FODPSP) contained in Chapter II of the 1999 Constitution  (as amended) enforceable? Traditionally, they were thought to be non-justiciable ab initio. But it seems attitudes are changing about the socio-economic rights they contain. Jurists, scholars and critical stakeholders examined the issue at this year’s edition of the Prof. Epiphany Azinge Foundation annual lecture which held recently at the Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja. Prof Azinge is a former Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies( NIALS). The foundation’s Board of Trustees chose the topic: “Nigeria, 40 years of engagement with Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy” as the theme. Prof Azinge observed that although  the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy are in Chapter II of the 1999 Constitution, they date back to 1979. Hence he posited that  they are now 40 years old, “Although it is not uninterrupted 40 years, but still 40 years since 1979,” he added.  What Chapter 2 says The Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy in Chapter II of the 1999 Constitution are 12 in number and run from Section 13 to Section 24. They cover fundamental obligations of the government, government and the people     , political objectives, economic objectives, social objectives, educational objectives,   foreign policy objectives, environmental objectives, directive on Nigeria cultures, obligation of the mass media, national ethics and duties of the citizen.  Court’s jurisdiction ousted? Section 6 (c) of the Constitution seems to oust the courts’ power with regard to Chapter 2 of the Constitution. S6(c) states: “The judicial powers vested in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section… shall not except as otherwise provided by this Constitution, extend to any issue or question as to whether any act of omission by any authority or person or as to whether any law or any judicial decision is in conformity with the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy set out in Chapter II of this Constitution.” These days, however, stakeholders differ on the current status of the provisions of Chapter II, given the current global campaigns  on the imperatives of promoting human and environmental rights. For instance, some argue that properly analysed, Section 6 of the Constitution does not oust the intervention of the courts. Nevertheless, the dominant position is that the chapter is merely directive principles of state policy and therefore non-justiciable. The challenge, however, is that aside non-justiciability, scant regard is given to those provisions of the constitution, for neither the judiciary, legislature nor even the executive consider them as fundamental objectives enough to be given serious consideration in activities of good governance in Nigeria. Introducing the lecture, Dr. (Mrs.) Valerie Azinge (SAN) noted that the tradition of celebrating the birth anniversary of Professor Azinge has become a platform to distil legal and political issues facing the Nigerian economy. Dr Azinge said: “To sustain the tempo and to continuously be a nucleus for dialogue, this year’s topic: “Nigeria: Forty Years of Engagement with the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy is delivered by Justice C.C Nweze (JSC). “…The views expressed by the author are systematically, unequivocally and extensively discussed.  They are the reflections of a convinced advocate and scholar of the highest repute. He makes far reaching recommendations that border on the fundamental role of key institutions to include the Judiciary, National Human Rights Commission, Public Complaints Commission and the National Assembly.  There is no doubt that this lecture will be an invaluable contribution to efforts at finding solutions to this daunting problem” Mrs.  Azinge stated.  ‘Socioeconomic rights designed to protect, promote individuals welfare’ Addressing the topic, Justice Nweze of the Supreme Court, said: Studying the Nigerian situation, one would notice that Chapter II of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution (as amended) contains provisions on socio-economic rights which the citizens are supposed to enjoy as guaranteed by regional and international human rights instruments. “However, the military government which superintended the 1979 Constitution placed these provisions as mere directive principles, thus, ousting the rights of the citizens and the power of the courts to enforce these provisions. “At the outset, it must be recognised that socio-economic rights (from where the fundamental objectives take their colour) were designed by the global community to protect and promote the welfare of individuals as subject of a state and as global citizens. “International human rights law enjoins States to take positive measures towards providing inter alia, quality healthcare, adequate housing, free and compulsory education for its citizens. These rights have now been codified in regional instruments with almost a universal affirmation of their underlying principles. The African Charter on Human Peoples Rights contains several provisions which directly touch on the socio-economic rights.”  ‘FODPSP originated in Ireland, not India’ According to the Justice, the FODPSP originate in Europe. He said: “The Indians did not invent the concept nor were they the first to include same in their Constitution. A study of the papers from the Constitution Drafting Committee of India indicates that they borrowed the concept of the Fundamental Objectives and the idea of including same from Republic of Ireland. “In adopting these principles, members of the Indian Constitution Drafting Committee viewed them as the pivot, or the engine of politics and governance of the country. Indeed, they believed that the provisions represent the aspirations and desires of the Indian people. “However, it was the Irish Constitution that codified these principles as the Fundamental Objectives of the State which impressed the Indians in the first place as they represented the aspirations and desires of the people on how government should pilot the affairs of politics and governance of the country.” Justice Nweze said in any country where the Constitution contains these objectives and directive principles, the government of that state commits itself to ensure that the principles therein are followed in matters of administration and legislation. According to him, the desire of such government must be to create a state built on welfarist ideals where the people would have the opportunity to flourish economically and socially. He said: “Indeed, the Directive Principles, as seen in the Indian and the Nigerian Constitutions, contain affirmative instructions to the governing class to provide and secure social, economic and political justice for all citizens of the state without discrimination; equality of status and opportunities the ‘Federal Character’ Principle; provide access to incentives which would promote the dignity of the person and freedom to fully express their humanity within the state. “As Femi Falana, SAN, has shown in his new book, since the inclusion of these sections in the Nigerian Constitution, there have been pockets of efforts by the government, both at the centre and at the sub-national levels, to fulfill their role under this chapter.” He noted that in terms of providing employment, the government, since the democratic dispensation, has maintained a Ministry for Labour and Productivity at the Federal Level; the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development at the Federal and State Levels as well as the Ministry of Youth Development. Justice Nweze said these developments notwithstanding, there is considerable force in the view that “justiciable socio-economic rights mean little without domestic legal systems that afford access to effective remedies for rights’ violations. He added: “It is, perhaps, this background of the constitutional subordination of socio-economic rights as sub-constitutional norms that explains the view that: In 100 years of nationhood, Nigerians have become extremely disenchanted and disillusioned with the hand that has been dealt them by successive leadership in the country… “The impact of these instruments was so profound that they provoked the attention of emerging states.  They became the anchorage for systematic efforts by national governments to take positive measure aimed at removing anti-social practices that undermine the fulfillment of civil, political and cultural conditions which threatened the legitimate aspirations and dignity of man”. Reacting to the lecture, a former Dean Faculty of Law Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Prof. Demola Popoola said Justice Nweze ‘covered the field.” He suggested that the challenges of nation building and national integration “can be imaginatively resolved through a faithful pursuit of the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy in our constitution. Director-General, Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (NIALS) Prof. M.T Ladan and former Dean Faculty of law University of Jos, Prof. Dakas CJ Das all made interventions in the discourse. 