  We live in a predictable, gigantic world intelligently governed by unbending laws of creation, one of which is the LAW OF BALANCE. We encounter the law of balance, for example, every where we turn everyday. It is present  in the shape of a tree, the rocky mountains, in counter balancing beams and pillars in the structure of a building, matching colours of a woman’s dress, wheel balancing or tyre guage, rotational movement of the solar systems and of the planets, and in even our EYES and how it enables us to see or  not to see. But we do not always pay serious attention to this law, if we do at all. Therefore, I like to knock off in bed at night after prayers, feeling like a part of the universe. As I explained this  week to a gentleman who complained of regular bad dreams, swinging with the universe just before sleep  is one natural  medicine which helps me not to be chased  about in my dreams by phantoms and demons, products of negative human energy or volition. If you wonder how all of these add up to the protection of the eye with power or energy eye glasses, the subject of this column, I will quickly say that lifting  up the soul in bed  for night sleep takes us to the realms of those  law of creation by which only “birds of a feather flock together” or “likes” find likes” or echo to “likes”. Some people call it the Law of  Attraction of Hemogeneous Species. In other words, we are homogenous or the same with the environment in which we find ourselves. The bottom line for many people, including me, is that: we make our environment; our environment does not make us…. we lie on the beds we lay. Thus, to rise beyond the world  of demons and phantoms in my sleep, and to find myself in beautiful environment in my dreams, I think of one  aspect of Creation before sleep. Often, it is of the REELING EARTH.  It is rotating on its axis at high speed to give us day and night, and we are not falling  off into space. Simultaneously, it is rovolving at high speed around the sun to give us the various seasons and the  fruits, seeds, nuts, vegetables, tuber and other food and cash crops they bring . We are like aboard a space ship in a huge space where other space vehicles have not collided with ours since I was born 69 year ago. We are  not static in any zone of this huge space. The earth belong to a family of planets which form a solar system around  our sun, and there are uncountable solar systems in their  trillions in this huge space revolving around a central power base in the universe in a cosmic cycle which, we are told, they complete every 26,000 years or thereabout.  What power holds them together as one family and prevents or abhors chaotic or disorderly proceedings if it is not THE LAW OF BALANCE? of course, behind this law and other laws, stand, adamantine, the ALMIGHTY AUTHOR  OF THIS WONDERFUL  CREATION , who stands outside it, permeating the minutest of forms and the most gigantic of structures with His Laws. The human eye cannot escape governance by these laws. The cells of the various compartments and           structures are homogenous with their own species and different from the  others. The LAW OF MOTION, like the other laws of creation, governs the eye as well. Although the eye appears small in  size compared to some  other organs, it is reported to consume the largest amount of blood in circulation. If  blood circulation to the eye slows down, in a breach of the Law of Motion which compels everything in existence to be on the move, the eye may  begin to deterriorate and to degenerate. If the eye is  over flooded with blood in breach of the  Law of Balance, another calamity may befall it. This breach is one of the causes of GLAUCOMA, a dangerous eye challenge. In  this condition, the eye may be over producing fluid at the back of  the eye which may not  drain off fast through the front, usually because the drainage channel is  blocked or has collapsed,  causing a build-up of fluid in the back chamber which, without notice, may damage sensitive nerves and other organs. Many glaucoma patients are armed with this knowledge by their opthalmogists to fight the  condition with eye drops which help to drain off the fluid build-up. Many are  not told their challenge may go beyond sluggish blood and  fluid circulation in their eye(s), and that sunlight, which enables us to see, can be a double-edged sword which may also make us go blind. But trust mother Nature, which fashioned the eye to see in the knowledge of these laws of Creation. She also put into the eyes natural chemical substances,as we shall soon see, which neutralise the harmful aspects of sunlight. With every day’s use of the eyes, the  stock of these substances is depleted. And we have the responsibility to restock them through the “right kinds of foods and  drinks”. Where we fail to do so,  we breach all the laws, especially the Law of Balance, and we dearly pay for it.  Energy eyeglasses Many of us are careless with our health, well meaning as we  may be. And, in many cases, our eyes suffer the  most. I am guilty, as charged! I was able to easily  ride over the storms of  GLAUCOMA in 1995, using the florets of Marigold plant which are the commercial sources of vision protecting carotenoids such as  leuthin, Zeanzanthin and Astanzathin. Today, these carotenoids are present in many  in eye health care food supplements.  Soon after recovery,  I forgot about them until I had a new bout about seven years ago. Visiting public eye clinics over the years, and being a lay member of the Lagos Eye Foundation for some  time, courtesy of my  opthamologiest, I learned  one lesson which I wish to share with you…In Europe and America where sunlight is less harsh than it is in Nigeria, almost everyone protects his or her eyes with eye glasses which  help  to prevent the entry of ULTRA VIOLET ( UV) rays of light into the eyes It is these rays, or rather the  BLUE spectrum of the SEVEN colours of light ( Red, Orange, yellow, Green, Indigo and Violet) which “cooks” the lens of the  eyes into cateracts and causes photo-oxidative stress and damage which may present as glaucoma and other problems In public hospitals around Lagos, and perhaps elsewhere, patients arrive to see  their doctors as early as about five  in the morning, otherwise the doctor may not see  them that day.  Hundreds of patients besiege eyes clinics every day. Some clinics do not see  more than  100 patients in one day. Some of the patients bribe their ways unto the register. At the Catholic Hospital, Ijebu-Igbo, thousands of cateract surgeries are carried out every month. The natural”cooked” lens is removed and not replaced in many cases. This is why  very thick “  optical lenses”       are prescribed. Where the patient is lucky,  may be  because he or she can afford it, plastic artificial  lens  is inserted  into the  natural lens holding sack. Even, then, many  people can afford only those made in India or  China which are cheap.  Even then, plastics in the body have  their  own issues! Observe many people on Nigerian roads on a scorchy, sunny day. They do not protect their  eyes with  face caps or eye glasses. Many who wear dark eyes glasses wear only cheap glasses which are not treated to keep the  UV rays away from the eyes. Those cheap glasses are merely darkened. I, too, once used them. I decided to share these experiences after the visit of one of my cousins to me at home this week. She said she was now seeing with only one eye. I know many  people who are going through this experience. For many people, the vision has deteriorated from 180 degrees with both eyes at work into tunnel vision in which side vision is gradually lost in one or both eyes. It is, therefore, absolutely important to consult an opthalmologist, optometrist or optician today for an anti-glare, anti UV pair of glasses. Photochromic glasses alone may not protect the eyes in the Nigerian Scorching sun. I doubt if they would also offer enough protection of the eyes for the eyes against electro pollution from the glare of computer, cell phone and television light to which many people are subject today for many hours I got my anti-glare, anti UV pair of glasses this week after saving for it over about six months. It  cost me 36,000. But it is not available  for sale at that cost. It comes as a gift when you join an E COMMRECE business group at a cost of N106,000. It is an investment I had to make to earn more money on the N106,000 than if I kept it in a fixed deposit in a bank.   I have done Treasury bills since the 1980s for children’s school fees and all that. At no time has treasury bill interest rate fallen  so low as I found it about two weeks ago. The  rates had fallen from about eight  percent a few months ago for a million naira to about five percent.  Fixed deposit interest rate at the banks had fallen by about one percentage point below treasury bills. We are told the government wanted to discourage “ sleeping” or dormant cash in the vaults and encouraged active and direct investment, which is why it is not borrowing at home but abroad to finance many of its major projects. Even at five percent interest rate  a year (365days) fixed deposit in the banks, my N106,000 will earn only N435 in 30 days. This e-Commerce groups offers N15,000 interest every mouth on N106,000 invested. The investor does not  need to “buy and sell” personally. The group buys and sells on-line and pays the interest every Friday. This is for investments  that  are on  AUTO- DRIVE, my own choice, because the profit drops automatically every 10 days. As a gift for joining the E- COMMERCE group at this level,  the participant is given an anti-glare, anti-UV eye glasses as a welcome present or gift.  Every 10 days of trading brings back N5,000 profit. Little drops of water, we say, makes the ocean. At N5,000 in 10 days or N15,000 in one month,  there is a 100 percent return on the N106,000 investment in seven months. But the 100% return  can be made in only one month by an active investors…. That is an extra N14,000. Should you make five referrals in one month, as many people do, that means N70,000 in one month. Added to your cycling bonus of N15,000 in 30 days, that N70,000 referrals bonus may bring your income in 30 days to N85,000. That, again, is not the end of the earning streak. For you are also entitled to three percent bonus on the trading of each of your referrals every 10 days. This works out at N2,100 per person in 10 days or N6,300 in 30days. For five referrals, this builds up to N31,500 in 30days. If, altogether in 30 days, we add N15,000,N70,000 and N31,500 the result is N116,500. This is more than your investment of N106,000 and without capital loss. There is no end to any of this earning for as long as your capital continue to work for you. The bigger your referrals list, the bigger your income.  During this period,  there are smaller presents or  gifts given to the participants at every cycling -in, every 10 days. Many of us have multiples of N106,000 sitting idle in current accounts, earning no interest and depreciated every months by inflation and all sort of legitimate and illegitimate bank charges. While  I see this E- COMMERCE offer as one  way through which one may protect  one’s   vision, I do not suggest in any  way that one abandon the responsibility to  safeguard one’s vision through other measures such as through  food  supplements, healthy diet, avoidance of environmental hazards such as vehicular traffic smoke e.t.c and, of course, the eye doctor’s prescriptions. As I have tried to explain, I have not only obtained a N36,000 eye glasses free of cost to protected my vision, I am earning N15,000 every month on an investment of N106,000 recoverable in seven months simply because I am helping other people to protect their vision. The eye glasses is named QUATUM ENERGY GLASS. It is advertised as based on four technologies… The manufacturer says: “Standing wave technology with quantum energy transfer. After 48 hours quantum implantation, the glasses can carry quantum energy and promote eye micro circulation. “Anti-blue ray protects eyes (with) AR Anti – reflecting coating. Clear the diffuse fluids reflection of the glass. Effectively removes all kinds of stray of light  and glare, improves the visual quality of the lens, make the vision clearer, prevent the aggravation of mayopia. “Anion glasses is a new measure to protect the health of the eyes. Through technology, mineral ”high oxygen compound health additive” is added into the material of the frame. The frame of anion glasses is  made of TOURMALINE ( medicinal stone, tomaline and volcanic magma). “Far infraed ray  is  called” life  light  wave”, it  is a section of wave length ray, because far infared ray can permeate human body hypodermic 4 to 5cm depth after far infared is absorbed by human  body, can make inside body water molecule produces resonance, make water molecules activation.  Contra indications It is suggested  that the glasses be worn  with caution by four group of users…  Other packages Other than investment in power or energy glasses, there are other investment windows. They cost more, and earn more. There is, for example, a window for energy stockings which are required by elderly people who suffer from cool legs and cramps due to poor blood circulation, or nerve pain. There is another window for boxers for men and women. It is reported to help men with prostate gland problems, low sperm count ( oligospermia) and no sperm( Azospermia) etc. For  women the energy under brief is said to help questions such as painful menstruation,  delay menstruation, absent menstruation, uterine fibro, block tubes etc. Nigerian Alternative Medicine growth in 2019, through E-Commerce trading, is set for growth rebounds in 2020. This will provide investment opportunity for more people to look after their health and pay next to nothing for doing so through returns on investment by teaching other people to take care of their health at Zero expense. This falls in line with another law of creation….THE LAW OF GIVING AND TAKING. It is only when we give that we can receive. When we exhale ( breath out air) (we can inhale breath in air). Ditto eating, drinking and voiding. The Lord Jesus taught us that it is better to GIVE than to RECEIVE. So, share these thought today with someone.  