 IN its quest to address the continuos call for affordable and quality housing for the middle-aged income. Alpha Mead Development Company (AMDC), has opened a unique and novel housing scheme called Green Park Estate The Green Park Estate is a collaboration with IBILE Holdings, the investment arm of Lagos State Government. It has the support of key players in the mortgage industry. The Green Park Estate is a well laid out service estate built on 50 hectares site; comprising of 600 residential plots; measuring beBy Emmanuel Udodinma tween 400 to 1,000 square meters. The project is a 100 unit of three semi-detached – and two-bedroom terrace houses located on the fast growing Lekki-Epe within 20 minutes’ drive to Lekki Free Trade Zone and Dangote Refinery. Managing Director of the firm, Mr. Damola Akindolire, said the estate is meant to address three issues for the middle-income class such as the lack of access to housing finance, low quality structures and high mortgage rates. Akindolire said: “Access to housing finance is one of the biggest challenges of home ownership for the middle-income class in Nigeria today. With commercial mortgages at 20 to 25 per cent, home ownership is gradually becoming a tall dream for hardworking middle-income Nigerians. In the light of the above the payment scheme plan offers customer’s access to the National Housing Fund and a flexible equity contribution payable over 12 months. He stated that with a significant population of the country still within the middle income class, it is important to plan for the housing needs of the future and in addition generate direct and indirect jobs for the populace. On the mortgages available, he responded that subscribers to the projects who are NHF contributors will have the opportunity to access up to N15 million mortgage loan at an unbeatable six per cent. In addition to this, we have ensured that the equity contribution for this project is affordable and flexible he added. He said: “It is as simple as making a deposit of N1.5 million and spreading the outstanding equity over the next 12 months while enjoying the benefit of mortgage at 6 per cent”. Chairman of AMDC, Dada Thomas said: “With Nigeria’s housing deficit widening in response to its growing population, Green Park Estate is one of the ways we are catering to the growing middle-income class by delivering quality and affordable housing fast with the latest technology. Also speaking during the ceremony, Mutiu Sumonu, said with the widening housing deficit, it is important to think outside the box and deploy technology to bridge the housing gap. He revealed that the estate has Eco-friendly design and amenities with capacity to save up to 40 per cent on energy cost.