There seems to be no let up in the animosity between the immediate past governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari and the senator that represented Zamfara Central in the Eighth Senate, Kabiru Marafa. In his latest verbal tirade, Marafa had accused Yari of nursing strong animosity towards President Muhammadu Buhari and how the former governor has been scheming to be become the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). According to Marafa, the veiled motive behind the ex-governor’s chairmanship ambition was to use the position to undermine President Buhari and his administration. The former senator had also accused the ex-governor of working with some serving APC governors to actualise a mission to deconstruct the President. Reacting to Marafa’s attacks, Yari said the ex-senator was trying to curry undue favours from President Buhari after he (Marafa) had conspired with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to “snatch” Zamafara state for the opposition. In a statement on Wednesday by his media aide, Mayowa Oluwabiyi, the ex- governor advised President Buhari and leaders of the APC to be wary of the antics of the ex-senator. The ex-governor reminded Marafa of how he (Yari) and a few others had stood with President Buhari since the President’s days in the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) through his sojourn in the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and up till today. Yari said, “Myself, along with several others, believed and nurtured the Buhari dream even from a minority situation. I have been loyal and I will continue to be loyal to President Buhari who I consider as my father. “I am only focused on how the APC can remain more united and potent as the country consolidates on the dividends of democracy under President Muhammadu Buhari. “I recall that in the early days, it was just about seven of us that formed the seed block for the Buhari project, with me as the Secretary while Hajia Najatu Mohammed and Senator Seidu Kumo were actively involved in the project. “Senator Marafa is ignorant of President Buhari’s political journey so there should be a limit to how far he can go in trying to win favours with the authorities”. Deploring what he described as Marafa’s desperation to smear his image, the former governor said President Buhari is not swayed by people who deliberately peddle falsehood just to please him. Yari said he was inspired by President Buhari’s comportment and actions since his entry into politics, adding that the President’s leadership style has continued to rekindle his belief in the system. He recalled how he championed a pro Buhari group -Forward With Buhari in the run up to the 2019 general elections and how the group contributed immensely to the President’s reelection campaign and eventual victory. Continuing, the ex-governor said, “The gradual walk by President  Buhari towards the mantle was the game plan and by God’s grace it has paid off. “Insinuations that I am bent on becoming the APC chairman as part of a grand design to undermine the President is very laughable; as there is no basis for anyone to contemplate such towards a very popular President that has just been rewarded with a second term. “It is instructive to note too that as chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), I ensured the President had a productive synergy with the governors across party lines. “The camaraderie between myself and members of the NGF only speaks of a leader that has continued to avail all institutions of his goodwill and support”. Yari cautioned Senator Marafa against spinning spurious narratives aimed at pitting him and the President, saying such antics will not work. “Recall that Senator Marafa it was, working in concert with other desperate elements who for their individual inordinate ambitions, sabotaged APC chances in Zamfara state during the last general election. “Marafa should rather first check where his loyalty stands given that his relationship with the PDP led government in Zamfara State is common knowledge. “The good people of Zamfara State and Nigerians in general hold nothing but gratitude and love for Abdulaziz Yari who has continued to work tirelessly to support all who regularly come around him”, he added. The former governor said going by the “mammoth crowd” that thronged his Zamafara home to welcome him back a few days ago, his popularity among his people has continued to grow.