Improved primary health care delivery has impacted on maternal and child safety as well as rate of birth registration in Adamawa State. Our correspondent, who made a working tour of primary health services in Numan Local Government Area of the state, found that concerted efforts of community leaders and United Nations agencies are complementing statutory government institutions to make a difference in services available to citizens. “Maternal mortality has reduced drastically,” Gunnin Joseph, the Facility Manager of Sabon Pegi Health Centre, Numan, told our correspondent. She added: “Women have been well enlightened on safety precaution. They are encouraged to start antenatal care on the first sign of pregnancy and to continue to delivery time. “They are motivated to the extent that after delivery, mothers are given token gift apart from the free antenatal care they receive.” Our correspondent found that maternal and child heath, as in most primary health issues in Numan and the rest of Adamawa State, is driven by a tripartite responsibility mix in which community, state and non-state actors collaborate. While the Adamawa State Primary Health Care Agency determines that every ward should have at least a primary health centre, benefitting communities provide the building while the government provides the staff and basic furniture and equipment. Over time and currently, the European Union and United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) stepped in “to make the health centres more functional,” as Gunnin Joseph put it. A Ward Development Committee (WDC) Chairman in Numan, Mr Jonah Thompson, who attested to this, explained how it works. He said: “The EU/UNICEF help by giving us money. With the money we buy drugs which we give to patients at highly subsidized rate to maintain a revolving fund and sustain the intervention programme.” The intervention has maternal and child health as one of its focus areas, according to Mr Thompson who, as Sabon Pegi Ward Chairman, supervises the two primary health care centres in the ward on behalf of the people. He said: ‘You need to see the beauty of our labour rooms. The EU tiled the maternity sections, acquired delivery beds and baby beds and so on. This is in addition to renovating entire centres and providing other facilities. Also speaking on the state of primary health care in Numan LGA, the Executive Secretary of the Adamawa Primary Health Care Development Agency in charge of the LGA, Asalina Apasa, disclosed that the LGA has 13 centres in which the EU/UNICEF is intervening in Numan. In executing its intervention to women and children attending the 13 health facilities, much attention is paid to maternity and labouratories, such that in many of the centres, they facilitate the establishment of maternity and lab in furtherinng healthcare for pregnant women and children. Increased hospital deliveries, Mr Thompson said, has automatically increased rate of birth registration