 There is need to have effective legislations to protect the great accomplishments Nigeria has recorded in technology and innovation, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has said. The senator expressed delight at how such accomplishments had put the country on technology global map. Omo-Agege spoke at the weekend at a luncheon party organised by the Lagos chapter of Government College Ughelli Old Boys Association (GCUOBA) at Eko Hotels and Suites on Victoria Island, Lagos. The Deputy Senate President said the Buhari administration remained committed to the development of the country by using technology and innovation as focal points. He said: “It is pertinent to note that it was in recognition of the important role of technology and innovation in leapfrogging national development that President Buhari strengthened the Ministry of Science and Technology at the onset of his administration. “However, no serious discussion on technology and innovation in Nigeria would be viable without consciously referring to the accomplishments of our young men and women whose exceptional feats across the world have earned Nigeria deserving global accolades. “It is, therefore, gratifying that Nigeria has a thriving and dynamic youth population, estimated at over 70 per cent of its about 200 million people. “It is the goal of the Buhari administration to harness their potential for national development, using technology and innovation as focal points. It is envisioned that this new framework, if properly harnessed, would serve as a high employer of manpower drawn largely from the thriving population of our young men and women.” The senator stressed that the country was making considerable progress in the technological sector. According to him, to sustain such progress, there is need for the public and private sector to work together. “In fact, the rapid growth of dynamic start-ups and technology-based set-ups, such as Interswitch, Konga, Jumia, Iroko, Andela, Paga, Flutterwave, Hotels.ng, BudgIT, Paystack, among others, are evident justification that Nigeria is making commendable progress in the ICT technological sector. “But to sustain this growth, accelerate technological and innovative advancement, there are specific dynamics that would play critical roles. “First, while the individual efforts and strides are commendable, there is need for sustained synergy between the private sector and the public sector. “Secondly, there is need to key into the Buhari-led Next Level Agenda, which includes empowering the Ministry of Science and Technology and other relevant agencies of government to harness the untapped skills of our young men and women in the technological sector for national development. The task of ensuring availability of competent manpower to drive innovation and technology will also entail greater synergy between various research and development institutes to avoid duplication. “Thirdly, while some of these attainments are commendable, there is need to back some of them up with appropriate legislations to protect institutional patent rights and intellectual property.” Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the state was committed to providing quality education to the residents. “We will give education a critical attention; we are taking it seriously. We need to ensure we give education to the youths of today. Education is the major leveller in life. If you don’t give it, you have not done anything,” he said. The governor said the state was poised to make public schools more appealing to all by organising a six-week training for their teachers. He said: “We want our public schools to be where everyone wants to take their children to. Public school teachers will be having a six-week training exercise. We are partnering different bodies to train school teachers. Above all, we would ensure good governance and quality administration for all.” Dignitaries at the event included the Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, included Tokunbo Wahab; Vanguard publisher Sam Amuka-Pemu; constitutional lawyer, Prof. Itsay Sagay; Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso and health expert, Prof. Olu Akinyanju.