Yet again, a murder trial has ended in a death sentence. But it is a different matter whether the convicted murderers will be hanged as the court ordered. The High Court in Ikeja, Lagos, sentenced a 50-year-old Lagos prince, Adewale Oyekan, and another man, Lateef  Balogun, 27,  to death by hanging on December 16, after a trial that lasted more than four years, for the murder of Alhaja  Sikirat  Ekun, a 62-year-old businesswoman and politician, in October 2012. In her judgement, Justice Raliatu Adebiyi, said: “The circumstantial evidence was strong and cogent; the act of the defendants in killing the deceased was intentional and premeditated.” She cited Section 221 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011, which stipulates the punishment for the offence of murder, as well as Section 231 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011, which prescribes punishment for conspiracy to commit murder. “The cited provisions of the law do not give the court any discretion whatsoever in sentencing the defendants,” the judge said. Ekun, a restaurateur, was murdered at her home at Omole, Lagos. She had been a friend of Oyekan’s late mother. According to the prosecution, “To render assistance to the prince, Ekun employed him as the manager of her restaurant. Balogun, the second defendant, was a former domestic worker of Ekun, who was employed by her to take care of her elderly father.” The details of Ekun’s murder show how hard-hearted her killers were. It is a narrative of evil and evil-doers. The prosecution said: “The convicts conspired, killed the deceased, threw her body in a well within the premises of her home and took over her businesses and property, including a bus, which was sold for N170, 000. “Whenever any inquiry was made by family and friends about her whereabouts, Oyekan informed them that she travelled to Abuja for the Ileya (Eid-el Kabir) festival. He passed this information by sending a text message from Ekun’s phone. “Following worry from members of Ekun’s family, and after an extensive search, her body was found two months later, in December 2012, by well diggers and fire fighters.  “The convicts had placed a generator, a gas cylinder and other household items on the body to conceal it in the 1,000 feet well.” It is a plus for the criminal justice system that Prince Oyekan’s status didn’t count in the case. Adewale is the son of Oba Adeyinka Oyekan, Oba of Lagos, who died in 2003. The prince should hang his head in shame for being involved in such a criminal act, which is not expected of a member of a royal family. It is noteworthy that the trial of the killers at the high court began in April 2015, after awaiting trial for more than two years. The trial itself lasted more than four years, which raises questions about delays in the criminal justice system.  Surely, justice can be delivered in reasonable time, particularly in cases where clarity is not a problem. The punishment makes a strong statement that murder is a capital crime, and should serve as a deterrent. However, in the circumstances, it is unclear how long the convicts may spend on death row before the penalty is carried out. Also, it is unclear if the penalty will be carried out. About 2,359 inmates across the country were said to be awaiting execution a year ago, a situation that contributes to congestion in the prisons. Oyekan and his partner will join those waiting on death row as the debate about the death penalty continues. The question is: What is the use of the death penalty if it is not likely to be carried out? 