Our Reporter  University pensioners, under the auspices of the Federal Universities Pensioners Association (FUPA), have praisedmen the Pension Transitional Directorate Arrangement (PTAD) under the management of the Executive Secretary, Dr Chioma Ejikeme, for the open door policy and empathy that exist in the Directorate. The National President, FUPA, Dr Ayuba Kura, while commending the Directorate in a meeting between FUPA executive members and the Executive Secretary, said Mrs. Ejikeme has ensured that the staff handles with care and passion the concerns of pensioners since her assumption of office. Dr Kura further said the meeting was to among other things, get clarification with regard to the balance of 33 per cent pension arrears, National Health Insurance for pensioners, outcome of the nationwide Parastatals pensioners’ verification as well as the pension percentage increase in line with the approved new minimum wage. He also expressed apprehension on pension payments. In her response, the Executive Secretary assured FUPA executives of the Directorate’s readiness to continue to engage with the association with a view to enhancing the welfare of senior citizens. She reassured them that PTAD is a 100 per cent compliant with the TSA, which means the manual processing of pension payments has been removed such that members of staff of PTAD do not have access to these funds. She said: “Pension payments are made from PTAD TSA accounts at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) directly to the pensioners’ accounts through their banks. “On the issues raised including the balance of the 33 per cent pension arrears and the pension percentage increase in line with the approved new minimum wage, PTAD is in talks with relevant agencies to make sure they are addressed as soon as possible. “With regard to the outcome of the parastatals pensioners’ verification, we are fine-tuning the model and strategy for the smooth implementation of the exercise which will be in phases.  The data collated during the exercise will also ensure that only qualified, biometrically verified pensioners are on the Federal Government/PTAD database and payroll system when plans are concluded to commence the National Health Insurance for pensioners.” She reminded the association that pensioners who missed the general verification exercise can be verified at PTAD headquarters in Abuja or the Lagos Zonal Office. She added that mobile verification is also available for pensioners who are too old or sick to come out for the general verification. There is a register to collate details of pensioners in diaspora pending when they return to Nigeria for their verification. Speaking on the recent BVN revalidation exercise conducted in collaboration with the Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS), she said the exercise was to remove pensioners from the payroll if their account is not NUBAN or the bank does not exist, continuous failed payment from August 2019 to October 2019, duplicate BVN or no BVN. This culminated in the removal of some pensioners from the Parastatals Pension Department payroll effective November 2019. She encouraged FUPA to notify affected senior citizens so that they can contact PTAD for their BVN update. She concluded by restating that PTAD will never request or accept gratification to process their pension payment. She asked them to report anyone suspected to be a fraudster. 