The wife of Ondo State governor, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, has vowed not to relent until women are given equal rights as their male counterparts. Mrs Anyanwu-Akeredolu spoke on Wednesday during the 2nd summit of Forum for Women Officials of Ondo State and Female Appointees (FOWOSO) held at International Culture and Event Centre in Akure, the state capital. “We will not faint until we see women everywhere being treated with as much respect as their male counterparts. “The pursuit of gender quality is definitely daunting, many rocks of stereotypes are particularly exerting, but when men join us, we are further strengthened to prevail quickly. But, whatever the case , we shall prevail,” she said. She called for gender inclusiveness in all aspects of the socio-economic, saying that ‘ spectrum is still miles ahead. We know this and we are not going to relent.’ Mrs Anyanwu-Akeredolu, who is the founder of FOWOSO, noted that her motivation was not because she is a woman. She called for a society where continuous development was achieved and sustained. “We must come to the understanding that everyone, regardless of gender is needed for sustainable development. “I have dedicated my life to driving gender equality, not because I love female folk more ,but because I seek the growth and advancement of humanity as a whole. “I am very delighted to know that I have infected every FOWOSO member with this positive virus that strives for gender equality in every aspect of our socio-economic spectrum,” she explained. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu described as unquantifiable the training and empowerment of women in the state by FOWOSO. He said the activities of the forum, particularly in the areas of training and empowerment of women across the 18 local government areas, had produced many entrepreneurs. Speaking on the theme of the summit; “Prioritising Women’s Health and Well Being In Nigeria”, Akeredolu said his administration had prioritised the well-being of women in the state. He added: “We have prioritised women health and well-being in Ondo State and that was what led to the Abiyamo Maternal and Child Health Scheme which we launched on Wednesday. All you need to access the free health care for pregnant women is your residency cards. Every child under 5 is entitled to free health care in Ondo State.” “Let me commend the efforts of the founder for this laudable initiative geared towards the development of womenfolk in Ondo State,” Akeredolu stated. The Chairman of 2nd FOWOSO Planning Committee, Mrs Mercy Femi-Idris, described the forum as significant to health and welfare of women, adding that it was about nurturing and empowering female folks. Prof. Modupe Adelabu, the Chairman of the occasion, noted that FOWOSO had given women voice of recognition. Adelabu, the former director governor of Ekiti State, said the forum had eliminated discrimination against women, noting that FOWOSO was a fun-making gathering but a life-impacful organisation. Mrs Bisi Fayemi, the wife of Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and Mrs Kafayat Oyetola, the wife of Osun State governor attended the summit.