 The Senator representing Lagos Central Senatorial District, Mrs Oluremi Tinubu, has said that Nigerian youths lack the skill-set for available jobs in the country, thereby making them unemployable. Tinubu, who spoke at a workshop organised by her senatorial office for 260 interns in Lagos yesterday, said several of those who are able to secure jobs are not ready to work, they only want the security of a fixed income, and unwilling to make impact, while some have no idea of how to adjust to working in a corporate environment.
She said this was why her senatorial office is placing emphasis on skills development and increasing knowledge base for the youths. She explained: “This Work Experience Programme (WEP) is borne out of the need to inculcate in our unemployed graduates, the skills, work place etiquette, and hands-on experience required to make them more attractive to potential employers, and successful in the labour market.
The 260 interns drawn from Lagos Senatorial District, she said, would be assigned to corporate organisations to acquire skills and work experience. “Thus, we have put together this workshop as a precursor to your resumption at your various places of assignment. The theme of this workshop, ‘Building Youth Capacity for Effective Engagement’, sums up why we are here. It is to ensure that you are off to a good start, on a sound footing and with the right ideas,” declared Tinubu. The senator disclosed that “an allowance of forty thousand naira (N 40,000) will be paid by my office to cover your day-to-day expenses throughout the duration of the programme. Half of it will be paid at the onset of the programme and the balance paid upon receipt of letter from your assigned organisation, certifying that you took part in and completed the intern ship.”
The All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos Central Senatorial District Leader, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, hailed Senator Tinubu for the numerous empowerment programmes she had embarked on to assist the less-privileged in her constituency. He described the senator as a pacesetter, saying no senator in Nigeria can beat her records in empowerment programmes.