May & Baker Nigeria Plc has signed  a manufacturing agreement with Sanofi Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of the French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi. Under the agreement, May & Baker Nigeria will use its World Health Organisation (WHO)-certified manufacturing facility to produce four product brands of Sanofi for sale in Nigeria and the West African market. The products which May & Baker Nigeria will manufacture for Sanofi include Flagyl tablets and Suspension and Tarivid tablets, anti-infective medicines and Malareich tablets, an anti-malaria drug. Industry analysts saw the agreement as  a direct response to the call by the National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC)  for pharmaceutical brand owners to localise their production by using locally available capacity to produce quality products in Nigeria. The agreement was signed by Sanofi’s General Manager and Country Chair Nigeria – Ghana, Mrs. Folake Odediran and Managing Director, May & Baker Nigeria Plc, Mr. Nnamdi Okafor. The signing ceremony was witnessed by Ms. Valeria Saviano, Sanofi’s Head of Supply Chain Africa, Mr. Sam Ohuabunwa, President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, Director General of NAFDAC represented by Dr. Monica Eimunjeze, a director in NAFDAC, Mr.  Femi Soremekun President of NIROPHARM, and Mr. Frank Monumeh, Executive Secretary, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (PMG-MAN), among other dignitaries in the healthcare industry. Speaking at the signing ceremony, Okafor said  May & Baker Nigeria invested heavily in setting up its internationally standard production facility and obtain WHO Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) certification to enable her  extend services to other  products owners who  might wish to heed the call to localise their medicine production in Nigeria. He noted that May & Baker Nigeria’s WHO-certified complex, known as The Pharma Centre, has capacity to produce 6.0 billion tablets and 37.5 million 60ml liquid medicines annually. “At the moment, we are only able to utilise 50 per cent of this capacity, leaving a large room for other products owners who may want to use the facility,” Okafor said. In her remarks, Odediran said Sanofi was satisfied with the quality of May & Baker Nigeria’s facilities and handling of their products. According to her, building strategic partnership with May & Baker Nigeria Plc to support local manufacturing ambition is based on May & Baker Nigeria’s rich history of producing high quality medicines in Nigeria. “It also follows rigorous due diligence exercise and successful compliance outcomes in line with local laws and our global policies,” Odediran said. Commenting on the agreement, Adeyeye said the May & Baker Nigeria and Sanofi partnership was a synergy that would promote the localisation policy of NAFDAC and eventual attainment of medicine self-sufficiency.