Reginald Odiah, Chairman, Policy Committee of MAN, who once served as Chairman of Electrical Group of MAN, in this interview with Charles Okonji speaks on his expectation for 2020 budget “Firstly, most budgets especially businesses run their financial year from January to December, and that was Government policies in the past, but over time it started running back until we have a situation where we have government budget running till June and sometimes ends in august, which was not healthy for planning by both government and private businesses. But what government is trying to do now is very laudable and by January it will start running, and it will stimulate the system. “However, where do we draw the line, since the 2019 budget is still running, but I am sure they can work it out. Personally, I am impressed and I think it is the right thing to do. It is good for budget to run from January to December, so that business owners would be able to plan, especially contractors and suppliers to government. This means that by the end of the year, they would be paid, and by January they should have planned their businesses. And I hope the government will not fail. How about continuity? I hope they will not go half way in 2022 and reverse. If we can maintain it and keep running it and as it ends in 2020, and by 2021, it continues, it will enable us to be focused. “In terms of affecting businesses, it will be positive. The only thing I see is the outstanding projects, and uncompleted ones. Though, I believe that the government will have a way of accelerating it, and finding a way about them, so that by 2020, they would have done as much as possible, and by 2021, they would be able to continue with it. “As regards growth and development, it depends on government policies; it depends on the economic inputs, performance of government budget, and also the support of government to the private sector. My submission is that if government can perform adequately by running the budget from January to December and for the implantation to be in line with what they have agreed with so far, and encourage execution, the economy would grow because it a movement in the right direction. So the improvement of the economy depends on a lot of factors on the part of the government and the private sector. “Also, I expect the government to put machineries in motion enable them execute the implementation adequately. On the issue of the government borrowing $30 million which has been approved by the house, it is not a bad move since it is tied to some specific infrastructural development. My only fear is that I hope they will execute the projects tied to the loan. If they implement the execution of infrastructural development, then, it will not affect government spending. My concern is that if only the money should go directly into those infrastructural development, then the budget would be properly implemented and continue to run as planned by the government. This will insure that 2020 would run smoothly, and once this happens, I believe that 2021 would sail smoothly. “As long as borrowed money is not diverted into other use, the polity would have confidence in the government and the private investors as well as foreign direct investors’ confidence would be restored. “Again, development of the economy depends on how strong the government hold on to the implementation of their policies, making sure that money budgeted for various activities are ploughed into those activities and monitored and followed up squarely, so that at the end of the day, we can see positive returns.”