Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has explained how he escaped traps laid for him by his predecessor and now National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Govenor Obaseki said Oshiomhole picked Philip Shaibu as his deputy and Osarodion Ogie as Secretary to the State Government thinking it was a trap for him. Obaseki stated that Oshiomhole thought the trio of himself, the Deputy and SSG would always quarrel, fight and then run to him (Oshiomhole) or settlement. Speaking at an expanded meeting with leaders of the APC from all the wards and local government areas in Edo North at Jattu-Uzaire, Obaseki said due process was followed in the suspension of Oshiomhole, and that any action taken by the suspended national chairman remains ultra vires. Governor Obaseki said Oshiomhole could only be considered back into the party when he apologises to members of the Edo APC. He states that Oshiomhole could not take any action on behalf of the APC because he was validly suspended from his ward. According to him, “Can you imagine a national chairman that is creating problems in his own house? Because of that, we had to suspend him and he remains suspended. We pray that God should have mercy on him because he has done something bad against God and the people of Edo State; he should find his way back into the party and apologize to all of us. “If he comes back remorseful and apologetic, we will consider taking him back.” Obaseki who dismissed speculation by his political opponents that he was leaving the APC said only persons involved in anti-party activities would leave the party. “If you cannot be a disciplined member of the party, you will leave the party, whether you are a national chairman or not. “He cancelled the primaries that were initially done by the party at the state level for the 2019 general elections and did his own. Because he could not control us at the executive, he manipulated the legislature so he can use the house to impeach us. “Oshiomhole thought he was setting a trap when he chose Philip Shaibu as my deputy and Osarodion Ogie as Secretary to the State Government. He was thinking that we will always quarrel, fight and then run to him for settlement. “If you behave like godfather, we will fight you. Reacting to Obaseki’s comments, Barr. Washington Osifo, one of members-elect whose seat was recently declared vacant said the suspension of Oshiomhole was illegal. Osifo accused Obaseki of saying things without knowing the implications. He stated that it was Obaseki that was validly suspended by the State Executive Council of the party. Osifo noted that Obaseki should talk about governance and not leadership of a political party. According to him, “Obaseki is only leading himself. He is fighting over things that do not matter. He now holds comic meetings. Obaseki is not leading anybody. “What Obaseki is saying does not make sense. How can he be a leader of the man that employed him for eight years and did everything to make him governor. “Obaseki is leading those that do not mean well for Edo people. He is a leader of retrogression.”