By Jane Chijioke The President of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN), Ikechi Odibo, has declared that advertising practice needs to undergo a change to cope with the demands of post-digital age. Odibo, who made the declaration in a paper presented at the National Advertising Conference, organised by the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) in conjunction with other sectoral bodies, in Abuja,  noted that practitioners must acquire new business mindsets and approaches crucial to the business in a rapidly evolving business landscape. He further revealed that the evolution has been assisted by the emergence of e-commerce, with television advertising transferred to digital platforms such as Youtube, Instagram advertising taking the place of print advertising and with celebrity endorsements mutating into influencer marketing. This process, he said, is still treated by practitioners as requiring just a few changes when wholesale changes are required. “We congratulate ourselves a lot for adapting things that have been done before, making minimal changes and feeling like we understand the modern world. However, we cannot force-old templates to new expectations, new objectives and expect to be regarded as relevant, strategic and indispensable by the clients,” he said.  He made it known that in a fast-changing business environment, clients seek up-to-the-moment partners, who are ahead in terms of proffering understanding, thought leadership and fresh solutions to their marketing problems. This, he said, makes it important to accurately understand and embrace digital reality and for practitioners to continuously broaden their perspectives and take creative responsibility without waiting for marching orders from clients. The AAAN President further advised practitioners to embrace new tools, which are multi-functional and not limited by geography. “In the digital age, devices do a lot of things well and also work together across physical geographies thanks to telecommunications and the internet. Consumers now move seamlessly between devices, with data providing borderless interconnectedness and continuity. We can seamlessly engage our favourite apps, social platforms and skits across various devices, anywhere and anytime,” he said.. 