 For the country to combat the myriads of security challenges currently plaguing it, Nigerians must begin to take more actions and stop calling for million-man prayers, Chairman Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Lagos Chapter Apostle Adebayo Abiola has said. Abiola popularly known as Baba Aladura spoke with reporters shortly after the conferment of Diploma in Theology on 12 bible scholars who underwent training at the Bible and Exemplified Customs Ministry in Alausa. According to him, it was time actions were taken to correct anomalies in the education and other critical sectors of the economy, calling for unity of purpose among the people. “Prayer will not solve insecurity. It is taking action that will. All hands must be on deck. The various agencies must do their jobs and the people must volunteer information, perform their civic duties and things will get better. All those calling for prayers should know that is not how it works. God has his servants he called and when they pray, he answers. They should seek out those elders who are close to God for consistent prayers but like I said, prayer alone will not do the job. We must act,” he said. He condemned certain practices being exhibited in Christendom such as the demand of first fruit by some churches, the segregation/discrimination among denominations, lack of love and new-year predictions by supposed seers who speak without hearing from God. The octogenarian, who said he has been chairman of Lagos CAN for over a decade following a legal battle, said one of the ways they were trying to bring unity was through the Theology school which attracts participants from across denominations. Apostle Abiola who doubles as President of the Ministry, said as a qualified lawyer, he found the suggestion by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) that the constitution be amended to include Sharia Law out of order giving that Nigeria was a secular state. “I am a lawyer by profession. I was called to the English Bar in 1963 before I came to Nigeria and went to the law School. I do not see how that demand is going to work out since according to the same constitution, Nigeria is a secular state. There are pressing issues that should be of concern to us such as the low education standard these days.” 