Aayisa Peers Egbulem is the Director of Houz of Jazz and the Creative Director of Jazz Fingerz situated in Port Harcourt. The native of Okrika in Rivers State and graduate of the University of Port Harcourt talks about her strong passion for fashion and how it has motivated her to work along this line, in this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde. What inspired you to go fashion designing? I love abstract creativity and I would say that this actually motivated me to go into fashion designing. It has been a very interesting journey for me. In 2016, I won a special award and I was given the recognition as Port Harcourt most stylish woman. I was and still am a philanthropist, fashion consultant, personal shopper and a counsellor before going into fashion designing. Happily, I have combined my career and family life successfully and, today, I am married and blessed with three children. Going down memory lane, I must say that what inspired me was my love for fashion, style and good clothes. I had always wanted to design my own clothes. I believe everyone has got a style and that actually defines their personality, irrespective of their shapes and sizes. I officially started my clothing line two years ago. What are some of the challenges and how did you overcome these challenges? The challenges I have had so far is trying to balance the home front, my social life with my business. I practically don’t have time to attend some of the events that I would love to be part of. This is because of my tight schedule. I must say that my job always occupies a lot of my time. What makes your designs different from others? I love dramatic clothes, designs that catch the attention of everyone even from afar. Permit me to say crazy cloths, yet stylish but different. That’s what makes my designs different. What is your take on the Nigerian fashion industry? Things are getting very interesting and the sector is developing and growing in different ways. The fashion industry in Nigeria has gone beyond “tailoring”, it’s a world class standard with a lot of innovation. Every fashion designer in Nigeria is creative; the competition is stiff and I think that is a plus. That naturally makes the designers give in their best at every point in time. What lessons has being in the sector taught you? You are strictly on your own; that is one important lesson that I learnt over the years. On the other hand, if you succeed, you become the toast of the town. It is kudos for a job well down. If you fail, however, then it’s over and you go back to zero. I have also come to the realisation that everyone is only interested in themselves; nobody is ready to assist or even disclose where they get their fabrics or threads from. Where do you hope to be in the next few years? There are so many opportunities in the sector and I hope to tap into such opportunities, leave a legacy as well as help to give young designers direction for business growth and development.  One of the things that I am looking forward to is to participate in the New York Fashion Week regularly, showcasing my designs and representing Nigeria. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the industry? I will really love it if we start seeing ourselves as colleagues rather than just competitors. Of course, competition is good but it should be healthy and relevant to the development of everyone. I strongly think that we shouldn’t despise or look down on upcoming designers, they are the future for the sector and they need our support and encouragement.  I usually advise that because you were there before them doesn’t mean they should be treated with disdain. I also believe that just because you made a design first doesn’t mean others don’t have the same inspiration. Five or 10 people can have the same inspiration; because you did it first doesn’t mean others shouldn’t try it or even make it better than the original idea. What do you consider as the best part of being a designer?This is actually the best part of my life. I must say that being a designer is interesting and exciting. It brings out the best in me and I get the opportunity to try out new things, create new designs, innovate, improve on myself. Most importantly, I must stress that seeing someone wearing what I have designed for them remains the most exciting and memorable part of it all. What makes your designs distinct and what materials do you like to work with? I work with every kind of fabric, it depends on the design and style we are creating for the client. The personality, choice of design and concept all help to determine the outlook for me. Creativity is the greatest tool, and inspiration comes in different ways. I always want my clients to feel comfortable, sophisticated, classy and confident whenever they are wearing our apparels. Tell us about the designers that have been the greatest influence on you A whole lot. But I’ll say Betsy Johnson and Gwen Stefani have my sense of style. I admire their brands and what they stand for in the sector. What are the fashion must-haves that one can find in your wardrobe? I love jumpsuits, bodysuits, LBD, pumps and beautiful sunglasses. I like outfits that are dramatic, yet classy, in one word “DIFFERENT”. Where do you hope to be in your business in the next few years? I want to be known all over the world with people wearing our brand in every state around the world. If you want to advise young people who want to go into the sector, what would you tell them? Believe in yourself, keep your dreams alive, start it with what is available at hand, no matter how little. Once you are focused, dedicated and innovative, your brand would keep evolving.