Despite the uncertainty of our world, certain outcomes are predictable. The first born of the Queen of England will succeed her as king while his son is next in line. North Korea’s dictator Kim Jong Un succeeded his father, just as Bashir Assad did in Syria. And children of wealthy parents are more likely to have a head start in life, though how they turn out is not predictable. How about the prospects of a baby born to parents who cannot afford the luxuries of life; a baby whose cradle is a manger; whose father almost rejected him as illegitimate? What is the chance of such a baby becoming a crown-wearing king? That was the implausible story of Jesus Christ! With the manger as his cradle at birth, depending on others for sustenance, and even resting finally in another man’s tomb, our Lord rose to become the king of the universe. How did this happen? Surely, he had David, the anointed king of Israel, as ancestor. But he was at least 28 generations removed from David. The thought of Joseph, his earthly father, becoming a successor of Herod was a remote one. How did it happen? We could try a few approaches to answering this question. God’s original plan for humankind in the Garden of Eden was for them to become the controller of the universe. Our model was Christ’s stilling of the storm on the sea. But while God made us like Himself, we deviated from His original plan and lost the lordship of the earth. We became subject to the forces of nature, which we were created to control.  Humans lost the garden and became subject to supernatural forces. But God is merciful and he would not let his anger linger forever. Therefore, he looked to His creation through Abraham, His faithful servant, whom He promised to bless, a promise fulfilled with the birth of Isaac when Abraham was 100 years old. Then, God tested Abraham’s faith by calling on him to sacrifice his only son through whom he had been promised many blessings. And when Abraham obeyed, we had the inkling of the blessings to humankind in his confident assertion that “God will provide.” God provided a lamb in place of Isaac. But it was also a declaration of God’s intention to provide a sacrificial lamb in person of Jesus Christ. This declaration was further confirmed to David, descendant of Abraham through Judah in 1 Chronicle 17: 11-14: “I will raise up after you your descendant, who is one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom. He will build a house for me and I will establish his throne forever. I will be a father to him and he will be a son to me…I will appoint him over my house and my kingdom forever, and his throne will be established forever.” While Solomon was the immediate subject of this promise, we also know that the reign of Jesus was the ultimate promise. And just as Isaac did not struggle with Abraham, Christ did not struggle with God. Abraham’s blessing was through Isaac. Jesus’s blessing is everlasting. Again, even after he volunteered to run this end for his father, Jesus could have developed cold feet and reneged on his promise. He didn’t, marking the beginning of a journey from heavenly glory to earthly humiliation. He was tempted in the wilderness when Satan “took Him up and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world in what must have been a difficult situation. The devil said to Him: “I will give you their splendor and all this authority, because it has been given over to me, I can give it to anyone I want; if you, then, will worship me, all will be yours” (Luke 4: 5-7). How tempting! How attractive! Many of us will fall into that kind of temptation. What does it take? Attraction to the satisfaction of our material desires! But what did Jesus say to Satan? ‘It is written: “Worship the Lord your God, and serve him only” (Luke 4: 8). If Jesus had succumbed to the temptation to deny his father and accept Satan’s offer of worldly glory, that would have been the end of his mission and ministry, and the end of his glorious reign. What about the humiliation he suffered in the hands of those he had come to save, and the persecution, including hanging on a tree, as a cursed man? It is the combination of all these that earned Jesus the crown and the kingdom. It is the meaning of Christ’s journey from cradle to crown. The all-merciful God, desiring our good, took on the form of a human being, was born as baby Jesus by a virgin of humble background, and grew up materially unimpressive but contented. As a model of divine excellence, he went about doing good yet suffered persecution in the hands of those whom he desired to redeem, and was crucified like a common criminal. But he died and resurrected and was taken into glory in his eternal kingdom. With his victory, he earned the crown of glory and a mandate to judge the world. This is the message of Christmas. It is to this Christ’s kingdom that we have the grace of being called. Yet, there is no doubt that, anyway we look at it, our contemporary world appears more like the kingdom of Satan than the kingdom of Christ. Look around and see the triumph of the devil in many areas of our society: cultism, gangsterism, kidnapping, money rituals, terrorism, parental rape, corruption, etc. Even the Church has an inglorious share in the reign of Satan as we hear stories of pastors engaging in rituals and sexual perversion. We must not fall into the temptation of the kingdom of the world. We must claim our membership of the kingdom of Christ. What is this kingdom like? What can we expect as members, subjects, and participants? Left to our wits, we are not qualified to enter the kingdom of God because it is not by works; it is only by God’s grace. And when chosen by grace, we are not to expect fun-fare on the way. Like Christ himself, we must expect to encounter many hardships. Jesus achieved kingship because he was victorious over Satan’s antics. He was master over worldly desires, as he subjected himself to the instructions of His Father. On the narrow path that leads to the kingdom, we must expect a bumpy ride. Therefore, we need His companionship, which He assures us if we faithfully brace ourselves with His words at all times, as David habitually did. (Psalm 119:11) Nonetheless, kingdom members need the mutual support of one another. How do we as members of Christ’s kingdom relate to one another? With love or with malice in our hearts? But He commanded us in John 15: 12 to “love one another as I have loved you.” And in John 17: 21-22, He prayed to his Father that He may keep His followers as one: “May they all be one, as you, Father, are in me and I am in you. May they also be one in us…I have given them the glory that you gave me. May they be one as we are one.” How do we present ourselves to those who are outside the grace of membership of the Kingdom so that they see Christ in us and through us and decide that they want to be part of the Kingdom? Do we have time for those who need our succour and help? Or do we simply see ourselves as spiritual beings who don’t need to be bogged down by things of the world, including those who need our help? I pray that God may help His redeemed ones, who are destined by His grace to ascend from the cradle of sin to the throne of grace, to do His will as members of the Kingdom of the God of Justice.