In about three days from now, the year 2019 will wind down. But the year has not been without remarkable incidents ranging from the good and glitzy to the ugly, dirty and downright crazy. Below are showbiz personalities, events and happenstances that made the year tick, as compiled by OLAITAN GANIU, AKPAN SUNDAY, CHINENYE EZEKWE, DOLAPO AJIBOYE, CAROLINE OCHEKWU AND PRECIOUS ONUIGBO.  Tonto Dikeh spats with nearly everyone IT would seem that throughout the outgoing year, actress Tonto Dikeh is could not get over her divorce from husband, Olakunle Churchill. In April, she granted an interview where she once again dished her estranged spouse. Some of her colleagues, including comedian Funnybone, who sought to offer her advise also got a taste of her venom. Tonto Dikeh was quoted as saying: “Ehm Funnybone, where was your mouth and stupid advice when this useless imbecile I married together with his fool azuka kept granting interviews every four days up until 6days ago? Or is he living in a different world that this isn’t two years after? Or your mouth was too heavy you to drop advice then?” She, however, enjoyed the year with her friends like the cross-dresser and lightening cream entrepreneur, Bob Risky.  Burna Boy inches closer to a Grammy FROM selling out huge concerts to winning global awards, 2019 has no doubt been Burna Boy’s year.  Burna, whose real name is Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu, was nominated for the 2020 Grammy Awards for best world music album with ‘African Giant’ in November. Burna Boy joins other Nigerian acts like Seun Kuti, Femi Kuti and King Sunny Ade who were previously nominated in the same category. Of 2019’s Top 10 streamed songs on Apple Music in sub-Saharan Africa, Burna Boy had five songs on the list. His official music video with Zlatan, Killin Dem, was the most trending music video in Nigeria on YouTube for 2019. And he was No. 1 on the 2019 CNN list of Top 10 African artistes. At the last All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), Burnaboy won the Artiste of the Year and Best Male Artist in West Africa for his song, Ye. Earlier in the year, he won Best International Act at the 2019 BET Awards as well as AFRIMMA Artiste, Song of the Year. He also won the MTV EMA, VGMA and the Futures Award this year. Through this year, Burna Boy has also shut down venues including the Wembley Arena in London.  T-Boss’s baby papa still a mystery FOLLOWING reports alleging that former Big Brother Naija housemate, Tokunbo Idowu a.k.a. T-Boss was pregnant and was delivered of a baby, the reality TV star debunked the report in July. This was after some reports had pointed out Ubi Franklin as the child’s father. While it is not contestable that she got pregnant and was delivered of a baby, the mystery that could not be unraveled is who the father of the baby is.  2BABA HITS TWO DECADES ON STAGE FOR Innocent Idibia, 2019 will remain indelible. The year marks his 20th anniversary as an artiste. In a year-long celebration, 2Baba, as the singer is referred to, marked the year with a hashtag, #20 Years A King. The celebration will be wrapped with a concert equally tagged ’20years A King’, on December 28, 2019, at the Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. When he celebrated his 44th birthday in September, 2Baba called for peace in Nigeria. “Different forms of violence including electoral, banditry, herders and farmers conflicts, kidnapping and terrorism have and continue to snatch the lives of Nigeria’s citizens,” he had said. “Let’s be clear, this is not a salvo to attack the government. I am not a politician but an artist and social rights crusader. I am calling on government (i.e our political leadership, security services etc.) and all citizens (i.e artists, entrepreneurs, media, okada riders, etc) to do everything we can and must to promote and guarantee peace.”  Davido rocks 2019 with charity, marriage and new baby EVEN superstar Davido could not resist the teenage comic mimics, Ikorodu Bois. And in appreciation of the efforts of the teens at mimicking former Senator Dino Melaye’s arrest and hospitalisation, in January, Davido gifted them the sum of N1 million. Many fans thanked Davido for not only recognising the boys’ talents but also giving them money. In July, Davido, who also goes by the alias ‘Omo Baba Olowo’ emerged as the richest Nigerian on Instagram. With a single post valued at N26 million, Hopper HQ ranked him at no. 38 as the second richest in Africa and the richest in Nigeria. Other Nigerian entertainers on the list are Funke Akindele Bello, Wizkid and Tiwa Savage. Days before his birth on October 19, David Adedeji Ifeanyi Adeleke Jr, the unborn son of superstar Davido and Chioma bagged an endorsement deal with a Nigerian diaper company. Chioma uploaded pictures of Davido at the event on Instagram and captioned it thus: “My Prince is Super Rich from My Tummy, Congrats on Your New Deal With @marioandjulietbaby The Best Baby Diaper N Wipes. Boy We Just Got Started. More Greatness to Come. Thank you so much.” Davido proposed to Chioma with a diamond-encrusted engagement ring on September 12, but not much was known about the customised ring. It was later revealed that the ring was purchased in a jewellery store, Diamonds by Dorgu, in Hatton Garden, London.  ‘Soapy’ keeps Naira Marley on top IN June, hip hop star Naira Marley was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over an allegation of internet fraud and was sent to Ikoyi Prison. Before he was remanded, he had released a song titled ‘Am I a Yahoo Boy?’ Upon coming out, he seemed to gain more popularity as he released a song ‘Soapy’, which was also embraced by his fans who are known as Marlians. His popularity is on the increase as he seems to be getting more shows.  Mercy Eke makes history as first female BBNaija winner AFTER 99 days of being confined to the house, Mercy Eke emerged as the winner of the 2019 edition of the Big Brother Naija reality TV show on October 6. She won N30m cash and a N25m Innoson SUV as well as other prizes. She got over 41.77 per cent of a total of 250 million votes cast by viewers to beat fellow housemate, Mike Edwards, who got about 19.94 per cent of the votes.   ‘Mokalik’ ranks number one at cinemas ARELY a week after its release in June, Mokalik, a movie authored by Nollywood actor and producer, Kunle Afolayan, rose to the number one spot of Nollywood films at the box office. “Mokalik has been ranked number 4 at the box office and number 1 Nollywood film in box office,” an excited Afolayan said. “Also, it holds the record of 2019 highest selling Nollywood film in opening week,” he added. Afolayan, who has also produced movies like October 1, Irapada and CEO, thanked his fans for making the feat possible. However, one of the veteran actors who featured on the movie, Samuel Akinpelu aka Alabi Yellow, on December 22, passed away. The actor, 62, died in his home at Ikorodu, Lagos.  ‘Village Headmaster’ celebrates 50 years AFTER several years of being off air, popular sitcom ‘Village Headmaster’  is set to return to the television screen . The programme celebrated its 50th anniversary in October with a play titled ‘O Vacuum’, which was staged at Terrakulture, Victoria Island, Lagos. The play saw some surviving cast of the old ‘Village Headmaster’ take to the stage with the new crop of actors of the sitcom. It was emotional as actors of yesteryear alongside a new crop of actors re-enacted the drama of ‘Oja Town’.  Toyin Abraham delivered of baby boy ON August 15, Nollywood actress and proucer Toyin Abraham welcomed a baby boy with actor hubby, Kolawole Ajeyemi. The news attracted congratulatory messages from different quarters, including her ex-husband, Niyi Johnson. “Congrats on the arrival of your baby, Mr &Mrs Ajeyemi,” Johnson wrote. “He shall be a source of joy to you. God bless the baby, the mother and the dad.” Toyin Abraham also got a cheque of one million naira from her fans.  Celebs condemn Senator Elisha Abbo’s attack on women IN June, Nollywood celebrities spoke against the action of Senator Elisha Abbo who assaulted a female attendant in a sex-toy shop in Abuja. One of them, Uche Ogbodo, even set up a post with #ArrestSenatorElishaAbbo. “Abeg ooooo, what manner of indiscipline is this? This is what we see in this country that has Failed women generally; a country that places women far below animals; a country that cannot protect their multiplication machine! Yes, that is what we are; your multiplication machine! “Since you treat us like animals, beat us, rape us, assault us and nothing will happen. Without us, this country will be dead and gone! Without us, the women, there will be no Nigeria.”  Genevieve Nnaji’s ‘Lionheart’ flies, crashes IN January, Nollywood actress and producer celebrated her 20 years in the acting world, having begun acting in 1998 when she was barely 19, with the movie titled ‘Most Wanted’. She also won several awards and capped it with her blockbuster movie, LionHeart. On the cusp of the year, Genevieve took to the Instagram to express her gratitude and optimism for 2019. “As 2018 comes to an end, I mark 20 years in the art of film making,” she wrote. “I’m grateful for my life, journey, and growth thus far. I’m happy I could celebrate with you through a product that embodied all of me, mentally and spiritually; for all of your pleasure. May 2019 be our best year yet.” Her directorial debut, LionHeart, premiered at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) and was acquired on September 7, 2018 as first Netflix original film produced in Nigeria. LionHeart was nominated for the 2020 Oscars under the International Feature Film category. The nomination was, however, cancelled in November based on the fact that the local language content of the film was not adequate.  Regina Daniels defies public outrage, marries billionaire Ned Nwoko THE internet was on fire during the year immediately the story broke that 18-year-old actress Regina Daniels was about to be married to billionaire politician and businessman, Ned Nwoko. Nearly every Nigerian had an opinion, ranging from “she is too young for him” to “she is free to do what she wants” and everything in between. Her father did not hide his disagreement with the relationship, but with the support of her mother Rita, Regina married Nwoko on Sunday, May 26, in the traditional way in Aniocha, Delta State. Regina who has remained flamboyant on the social media is out to prove that she is a woman of her own.  SIMI, ADEKUNLE GOLD WED QUIETLY AFTER a secret romance, singers Adekunle Gold and Simi got married in January. The traditional and white wedding ceremonies held in Lagos with the white wedding taking place at Ilashe Beach. The duo, who had several times been linked romantically, only publicly declared their love not up to a month before they married. In fact, ‘Orente’, Adekunle Gold’s chart-busting song, was inspired by Simi.  Authorities catch up with Bob Risky, stops his party IDRIS Okuneye, popularly known as Bobrisky, is an internet personality and cross-dresser. Recently identifying as a transgender, Bob Risky has come under criticism because of his lifestyle. The Director-General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Olusegun Runsewe, during the year swore to ‘deal’ with Bob Risky and his likes, saying they are a disgrace to the nation. In Augusts, about 50 policemen reportedly stormed the Lekki, Lagos venue of his 27th birthday party and stopped it. They chased guests away and arrested five persons while Bob Risky fled the party, which reportedly cost him N10 million to arrange. A commissioner in Lagos State, Bala Elkana, said that his actions and lifestyle could corrupt young people and national culture.  D’banj announces arrival of baby boy soon AFTER losing his first son who drowned in a swimming pool in June 2018, Kokomaster, D Banj, in September, announced that he and his wife, Lineo Didi Kilgrow, were expecting a baby boy soon. However, he did not announce the actual delivery date. About two months after his son drowned, D’Banj released a new song which he dedicated to his wife. The entertainer recently shut down 02 academy Brixton during the 10th edition of the Koko concert in the United Kingdom.  Wizkid floods stars for Starboy Fest ASIDE making the news for public display of affection with fellow star, Tiwa Savage, Wizkid also commanded many stars to his concert, StarboyFest, which held on October 21 in London. Making history by shutting down the O2 arena for a second time, the assemblage of stars included heavy hitters like Burna Boy, Afro B, Skepta, Tiwa Savage, Runtown, Naira Marley, Olamide, Fireboy DML, Maleek Berry, Terri, Reekado Banks, Oxlade and others.  Rema shines in Texas IN August, Mavin star, Divine Ikubor, popularly known as Rema, won three awards at the 2019 African Muzik Magazine Awards (AFRIMMA). The ‘Dumebi’ crooner was nominated in the ‘Song of The Year’, ‘AFRIMMA Video of The Year’ and ‘Best Newcomer’ categories of the award ceremony set to take place in Dallas, Texas. Rema, who has clocked over 50 million streams with his ‘Rema’ and ‘Freestyle EP’, continues to wow the music industry with his art and craft on the stage.  DJ Xgee commits suicide JUST two days into 2019, Lagos-based DJ Xgee committed suicide. The news left the entertainment circle in shock. Apparently suffering a case of depression, DJ Xgee, whose real name is Seun Omogaji, reportedly committed suicide by drinking ‘Sniper’ because his wife left him. Dropping a post on Instagram, he dropped what appeared like a suicide note in which he implored his loved ones to mourn him wearing white.  Funke Akindele makes directorial debut with ‘Your Excellency’ FROM blazing success with her comedy series, Jenifa, actress and producer, Funke Akindele, made her directorial debut with the movie, Your Excellency. The movie, a Mo Abudu production, was recently premiered in Lagos.    Teddy A and BamBam’s marriage IN September, Tope Adeniyan a.k.a. Teddy A and Bamike Olawunmi, better known as Bambam, who had met on the 2018 edition of Big Brother Naija had their traditional marriage in Ibeshe, Ilaro, Ogun State in September. Some of their fellow housemates who attended the wedding include CeeC, Nina and Khloe. In November, the couple did a white wedding in Dubai during the One Music Festival.  Don Jazzy, Foluke Daramola others take up Faceapp challenge SOME Nigerian celebrities joined the social media craze of FaceApp. Launched back in 2017, the app went viral because of an Age Challenge which the app used to distort a person’s face to make it younger or older. However, it was the transformation to an older version that made wave. Hence, Instagram got a buzz when some of Nigeria’s top entertainers like Don Jazzy, AY, Ramsey Nouah, Falz and Toyin Abraham joined international celebrities like Drake, Piers Morgan and Miley Cyrus to age digitally.  Mad Melon of ‘Danfo Driver’ dies THE reggae music duo, Danfo Drivers, lost Mad Melon, one of its members, in September. Mad Melon, whose real name is Omefa Oghene, and Mountain Black became popular in the early 2000s for their unique music style. They had tracks like Iya Mi, Danfo Driver and Sensimilla.   G-Worldwide sues Kizz Daniel, demands N500m as damages POPULAR record label, G-Worldwide recently sued its former artiste, Kiss Daniel, demanding for N500m as damages. A public notice served by Olisa Agbakoba’s legal firm, the legal adviser of the entertainment outfit, stated that the Kiss Daniel stage name of its former signee, Oluwatobiloba Daniel Anidugbe, now pronounced as Kizz Daniel, is exclusively that of G-Worldwide. The record label even threatened to stop Kizz Daniel’s Boxing Day show tagged Kizz Daniel Live In Concert.  Biglo goes down with kidney failure IN July, rapper Lotanna Udezue, known more as Biglo, cried out for financial assistance. He was diagnosed with kidney failure in July 2018. To ameliorate his condition, a Gofundme website was opened by Adedotun Akinrinade and Obiora Ezefili to raise $50,000 for a kidney transplant operation booked for August 31, 2019. Known for bringing his energy into his raps in the early 2000s, Biglo worked with 2Shotz and the then famous StylPlus.  ‘Living in Bondage’ back to life THE sequel to the popular movie ‘Living In Bondage’ premiered on November 8. This time, it was directed by Ramsey Nouah and other star actors like Kenneth Okonkwo (Andy Okeke), Kanayo O. Kanayo and others. With rave reviews, the movie has become a delight for cinema goers. The first series of ‘Living in Bondage’ was produced in 1992.