The ‘Centre of Excellence, Lagos, has been blessed with pro-active governments since 1999 when the country returned to civil rule, and the result has been an ordered developmental plan in all spheres, including security matters. While there may have been a slight disruption recently, over the years, successive governments in the state have invested huge resources in security, to ensure safety of lives and properties. Despite these efforts, cult-related criminality continues to pose a challenge. Last week, the state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, raised concerns about cult criminality, and said his government would offer amnesty to cultists willing to turn a new leaf. According to the governor, “the security council believes we can open up the period of amnesty for them. We want them to come forward to turn a new leaf. I do not want to use the word rehabilitate.” Hopefully, members of the cult groups terrorising parts of the state would grab this opportunity. We support the plan of the state government to employ the carrot and stick method to deal with the challenge. But it must be made clear that those who fail to take advantage of the offer will be dealt with in accordance with the law. No doubt, the centralised policing architecture is making it difficult for a proactive state like Lagos to deal with some of the security challenges. While huge resources have been expended, the state, like many other states, has no full control over the police. So, granting amnesty has become a common option amongst state governments, since forceful actions have been unable to eradicate their respective security challenges. Starting from the Niger Delta, granting amnesty to criminals has become one of the options to deal with security challenges in the country. Recently, some states in the north-west offered amnesty to stem criminality in the region. We therefore urge Lagosians to support the government’s plan to stamp out that dent on the state’s security architecture. For those willing to turn a new leaf, amnesty; but for the incorrigible cultists, the full weight of the law. Of course, the huge improvement in security in the state has been made possible by the state government with support from corporations and residents who have contributed to the state’s security trust fund. With the fund, the state has been able to provide patrol vehicles, communication gadgets, extra allowances for security agencies, and other enablers to ensure substantial security for the buzzing mega city.  Of note, Lagos has become the destination for Nigeria’s teeming youths from other states who are unable to gain opportunities in their states. With little or no education or skill, most of these migrants just saunter into the state, and in no time constitute security challenges. According to media reports, no fewer than 20 persons were killed between September and now, in cult-related clashes. Within the period, there were clashes in Ajah, Ikorodu and Oworonshoki, among other suburbs. It is also reported that the Aiye and Eiye cults are amongst the leading cult groups in those areas, who have made life very difficult for Lagosians. Hopefully, the ongoing military exercise, ‘Operation Crocodile Smile’ would help flush out some of the miscreants disturbing the peace of the state. The state also will need to device opportunities for those turning a new leaf. Most of them can be sent to farms, to learn farming skills. For a more enduring solution however, we urge the Federal Government to grant Lagos its deserved special funding to enable it meet the needs of its ever increasing  population. ‘These challenges are why Lagos State needs special funding from the Federal Government. The state also will need to device opportunities for those turning a new leaf. Most of them can be sent to farms, to learn farming skills’ 