By Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Grace Adichie, mother to the renowned writer, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, has urged teachers to devise means of making the teaching of history lively and entertaining. Adichie gave the advice in Awka, Anambra State, at the opening of a two-day training of teachers for the newly introduced history curriculum. She said the versatility of teachers and their ability to provide proper guidance, including teaching aids, would  increase pupils’ interest in the subject. She said, “It was a shame that at a certain stage, history was dropped in the school curriculum. But I thank God that good reasoning prevailed and it is back. “I hope our teachers will make good use of it so our children will benefit from the teaching of history.” Declaring the workshop open, the Commissioner for Basic Education, Prof. Kate Omenugha, said the re-introduction of the subject into the school curriculum was a fallout of clamour by stakeholders. Omenugha, represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr Linus Nwankwo praised Governor Willie Obiano for listening to the voice of reason to return the subject to the school curriculum.  “It’s obvious the children of today cannot tell the history of Nigeria, and how can they take over the leadership of the country if they are not conversant with the history of their country?” she asked. Earlier, Head, Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC), Awka office, Johnson Ukpong, said the newly introduced history curriculum was meant for both basic and senior secondary schools with unique features. He said the training was to serve as support for the teachers for proper implementation of the curriculum. “The training is planned to ensure that the already developed teacher’s guide for the history curriculum which has seven chapters is carefully followed,” he added. On her part, Deputy chairman, Post Primary School Service Commission, Lady Pat Offiah said over 500 persons, including all Education Secretaries in the 21 local government areas of the state and Directors of Anambra State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) were among the participants in the exercise.