By Muyiwa Lucas Spokesman for Nigeria Customs Service, Joseph Attah, has emerged the overall best in information dissemination and communication with the public among other public institutions. An award ceremony put together by a coalition of civil society bodies under the aegis of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) in Abuja, the Customs Service also bagged an Award of Excellence for its contribution to national security. Organisers of the award disclosed that among agencies of government, the Customs, aside bagging a Certificate of Excellence, came up as overall best in disseminating relevant information to members of the public on its activities and addressing several unanswered questions. The organisers also noted the effective manner in which information on the ongoing partial border closure is seamlessly being disseminated by Nigeria Customs. While making presentation to Attah, Air Vice Marshal Yusuf Ana’s, (rtd) of the Crises Communication, described Attah’s and Customs award as well deserved. Speaking after the award, Attah said the increasing revenue collection, unrelenting anti-smuggling activities and higher dedication to duty by officers are results of an integrity-driven management of the service. He said the award is a sign that the efforts put to work by his unit and the entire service were being observed and noted. “I thank the organisers for this recognition and we see this as a motivation to do more in the collection of revenue, protect Nigerians from dangers associated with smuggling and step up our enlightenment activities. “The ongoing Exercise Swift Response has recorded gains that includes creating good business environment for Nigerian farmers, increased revenue collection at the ports and reduced our overall fuel consumption by curbing transborder smuggling of petroleum products “It has also improved on the security situation of the Northwest States and other parts of the country covered by Exercise Swift Response” Attah said. The Nigeria Police was also honoured at the ceremony for Excellence in overall national security while Nigerian Air Force came to Community Services. Also honoured at the ceremony were two identical twin officers who displayed gallantry and achieved the arrest of over 100 kidnap suspects. 