Several prominent Nigerians have faulted former Defence Minister Yakubu Danjuma over his recent state of the nation comment in which he said Nigeria was in a big hole. He had also claimed that the Yoruba of the South West had lost their voice and “appear not to care about what is happening” in the country. Secretary to the Lagos State Government in the Second Republic, Chief Olorunfunmi Bashorun accused the former chief of army staff of trying to play on sentiments, while leaving the substance. A chieftain of Afenifere, Chief Seinde Arogbofa dismissed Danjuma’s allegation that the South West has been uncharacteristically quiet  about  events in the country, while civil rights activist, Senator Shehu Sani challenged him to spill the “odorous, putrid beans.” Sani’s sentiments were shared by former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. The national chairman of United Progressives Party (UPP), Chief Chekwas Okorie, simply said he was not impressed by what he called Danjuma’s “late hour confession.” Speaking by phone last night from Akure, Chief Arogbofa said Southwest leaders have not kept quiet over the rot in the country, particularly the style of the Buhari administration. He said the leaders of the zone have always been truthful, sincere and logical in their criticisms of the government and appraisal of the state of the nation. Arogbofa, frontline educationalist and literary giant, said: “We are critical of this government. We are not ‘follow follow’ people. We express our minds on what is going on. We are not satisfied with this government. How can we be happy with a government that does not support human rights?” Also speaking by phone, Bashorun said: “people like Danjuma should be reminded that this country is still growing democracy. Before he talks, he should look back at history and understand where we were coming from and where we are now. “Interestingly, he is one of those who, at a time in our history, claimed to have instituted a corrective regime after overthrowing the government in place at the time. So, we all must proffer corrections and not condemnations at times like this. Let him watch what he says in the interest of the country, if truly he is fighting the interest of Nigerians. “He is not even fit to talk the way he did. He is unfit to do that. He contributed to the rot he is trying to condemn. He benefited from the anomalies he is now condemning.  Or what are we all complaining about? We are saying that there is too much wealth in the hands of just a few while more than 95 percent of us are left with a fraction. He talks about the north doing this and that and the south keeping quiet. He is trying to play on the sentiment of being a Christian. But the truth is that he belongs to the north. He is from Taraba in the north. “What does he want the West to say? Is he the one to tell us when to speak? He accused Buhari of putting only Muslims in office, but we find out it is not so. Take a look at the appointment of 17 Permannent Secretaries recently and you will see that every part of the country got a share. Our elders in the West are contributing to the effrontery of people like Danjuma because they don’t look at the examples and legacies of Awolowo before they open their mouth to talk. That is why Danjuma and others will teach us when to talk. “Danjuma or anybody at that shouldn’t set the West up against anybody. What we need now is cooperation and not antagonism. We must speak up against those planning gang ups. We don’t need gang up now at all.” Senator Shehu Sani in a series of Tweets on Saturday on the Danjuma comment said: “Dear Baba Gen TY, spill the odorous, putrid beans so that the snoring slumberland ‘will be awakened’ by the insomnia of its truth and of its reality “Hunters with bows and arrows and spears from the South and turbaned men with swords on horses from the North, are after the messenger called Danjuma,for his bitter message written on the scroll.” Fani-Kayode tweeted: “Would someone please tell Gen. T.Y. Danjuma that if he wants to talk he should talk! Nigerians have already lost their sleep! “We are already a vassal state being run by crude barbarians and we have nothing to lose. He should talk now before it is too late or forever hold his peace!” Okorie said he was not impressed by “Danjuma’s late hour confession.” “That claim that Nigerians will not sleep if he opens his mouth is nothing but confession,” Okorie told The Nation. “He is the one that has not been sleeping because of what he and others like him have done against Nigerians and Nigeria. “So, if he has realised the need to make the necessary confession, it will be in his interest to do so. “At least, it will help him to sleep well. We, Nigerians are waiting to hear his confessions on his activities and the activities of other leaders against the country and against Nigerians.” A group, Middle Belt Conscience Guard, daubed Danjuma’s comment diversionary and tactless. Prince Raymond Enero, National President of the group, in a statement yesterday warned the ex-military general to desist from making crude statements that could cause unrest in the nation. It wondered how “a supposed elder statesman who has benefited immensely from Nigeria could throw caution to the wind by making statements that are not meant for unifying purposes, but for disintegration and to create chaos in the country. “We are constrained to ask Theophilus Danjuma what he stands to benefit by making such inglorious call in this critical point of our existence as a people and as a country. If this is not malicious, we do not know what to call it. “The Middle Belt Conscience Guard wishes to state that there are certain conducts expected from elder statesmen in the country, and Theophilus Danjuma has fallen short of this expectation. As such, he should retrace his steps and tender unreserved apologies to the country for acting against common sense. “The Middle Belt Conscience Guard also wishes to use this medium to inform Theophilus Danjuma that there are boundaries he should not cross in his futile attempt as portraying himself as a saint amongst sinners, while in the real sense of it; he is part and parcel of the anomaly that has been entrenched in the system from time immemorial. This attempt is nothing short of calling a dog a bad name to hang it.” Danjuma spoke on Thursday in Ibadan at the launch of a book by the Nigerian Tribune, entitled, ’70 Years of Progressive Journalism.’