Traditional medicine has an unlikely promoter in the person of jailed senator and former Abia State governor Orji Kalu. He carried out the promotion unintentionally, but it was significant enough to attract attention. Less than two weeks after Kalu was convicted and sentenced to prison on December 5, he bizarrely requested the Federal High Court in Lagos to grant him bail pending an appeal against his conviction. Kalu claimed he needed to consult his “herbalist,” adding that the medical facilities in the custodial centre were inadequate for the treatment of his health condition. He didn’t elaborate on his health condition. Kalu’s request to be allowed to see his herbalist is food for thought. It reflects Kalu’s confidence in traditional medicine. Who is Kalu’s herbalist? Where is his herbalist based? How long has he been the herbalist’s patient? How many people of Kalu’s status are the herbalist’s patients? Are the herbalist’s services expensive? Interestingly, Kalu, the Senate Chief Whip and senator representing Abia North District, also said granting him bail would enable him to play his legislative role. Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) counsel Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), opposed the bail application, saying: ”Although bail is generally a right of an accused as guaranteed by the constitution, it is not a right available to a convict because the presumption of innocence had crystallised into guilt and conviction.” Jacobs further argued that bail pending appeal didn’t apply to Kalu’s case. Such a bail could be granted in a situation where the term of imprisonment would have elapsed before determination of the appeal, he said, which isn’t the case in Kalu’s situation. Although Kalu was sentenced to 12 years in prison for N7.65billion fraud and money laundering after a 12-year trial, it is expected that the determination of his appeal will not take that long. Kalu’s health condition could be handled at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre, Jacobs stated. “He says he needs his herbalist to treat him, but he has not said that his herbalist came to the prison and was not allowed to see him. “In one breath, the applicant is saying that he wants to be released on health grounds while in another breath, he is saying that as a senator, he needs to be released on bail so as to carry out his official functions.” Justice Mohammad Liman will rule on Kalu’s bail application on December 23. Whether or not Kalu is granted bail to see his herbalist, his request is good for the image of traditional medicine, particularly at a time when medical tourism is popular among people in power. Kalu’s inadvertent promotion of traditional medicine should fuel the efforts of the National Association of Nigerian Traditional Medicine Practitioners (NANTMP) to gain respect. In 2015,  the then NANTMP President, Prof. Omon Oleabhiele, had called for a traditional medicine bill at an event organised by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to mark the 2015 African Traditional Medicine (ATM) Day in Lagos State. Oleabhiele urged the National Assembly to sponsor a bill in support of traditional medicine and its practitioners in the country. He also argued for the creation of a Traditional Medicine Board in all the states of the federation for the regulation of traditional medicine. It is a measure of the importance of traditional medicine and traditional healers that since 2003 African Traditional Medicine Day has been observed every year on August 31. Ministers of Health adopted the relevant resolution at the 50th session of the World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Committee for Africa in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. The special day is meant to promote the critical role of traditional medicine in Africa. African traditional medicine has been described as “the African indigenous system of health care.”  It has been argued that “In fact, the frequently quoted statement that 85 per cent of the people in Africa use traditional medicine is an understatement because this figure is much higher and continues to increase.” M. Kofi-Tsekpo illustrates the thinking about African traditional medicine at decision-making levels since the 1970s: “At the Alma Atta Declaration of 1978, it was resolved that traditional medicine had to be incorporated in the health care systems in developing countries if the objective of the “Health for All by the Year 2000” was to be realised. Notwithstanding this strategy, African countries did not come near the objective at the end of the 20th century. Therefore, the Member States of the WHO African Region adopted a resolution in 2000 called “Promoting the role of traditional medicine in health care systems: A strategy for the African Region.” This strategy provides for the institutionalisation of traditional medicine in health care systems of the member states of the WHO African Region. “Furthermore, the OAU (African Union) Heads of State and Government declared the period 2000 – 2010 as the African Decade on African Traditional Medicine. In addition, the Director General of the World Health Organization also declared 31st August every year as African Traditional Medicine Day. All these declarations signify the importance and the approval by Governments and international institutions of the need to institutionalise African traditional medicine in health care. Therefore the mechanisms for institutionalisation have to be developed to make these resolutions a reality.” It is obvious that the establishment of NANTMP in December 2006 by the Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Health, although well-intentioned, has not made traditional medicine more acceptable at formal levels of governance in the country. A NANTMP communiqué is noteworthy: “We thank the Governors of the states that have formed the Traditional Medicine Board in their states such as Edo, Lagos, Anambra and Bauchi states. “We urge other Governors whose Commissioners of Health and State House of Assembly have not created the Traditional Medicine Board to kindly request them to do so with dispatch.” The body added: ”We also pray the Governors to ensure that genuine and registered members of the NANTMP be made Chairmen and members of the Board to protect the interest of the practice, unlike the present practice in some states whereby Medical Doctors and Pharmacists are made Chairmen of Traditional Medicine Board. What does a Medical Doctor who doesn’t want traditional medicine to be given to his patient want to do in a Board that is set up for regulation and promotion of Traditional Medicine Practice?” Kalu’s need for his herbalist puts a spotlight on traditional medicine.  It is useful in getting Nigeria to further think about developing traditional medicine. 