A 15-year-old girl has been raped by three men in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. Our correspondent gathered Friday evening that the girl, who was snatched off a street by three men in a car as she headed home from work in Jimeta Thursday evening, was taken to a hideout by the men who returned her to the street unconscious after raping her. Hajia Hauwa Garba, a Yola-based rights activist, who is working on the case under her organisation, Equal Access, told our correspondent via a telephone conversation that the teenager had been admitted at the Federal Medical Centre, Yola. “I’m just coming from the Federal Medical Centre (Yola) where the girl has been admitted,” Hauwa said. She said the girl had been abandoned by the roadside leading to Jimeta Central Eid Mosque, Yola North Local Government Area of Adamawa State on Thursday evening. Hauwa added that the Jimeta Police Division, situated not far from where the teenager was found, took her to the Sexual Assault Centre at the Adamawa Specialist Hospital, from where she was referred to the FMC. She revealed that the 15-year-old is an older cousin of the five-year-old who was defiled in August  and still on admission at the FMC Yola. “What has just occurred is a very sad reminder of a case that is months old but is still fresh. This girl is now on admission at the same FMC where her younger cousin has been since August,” Hauwa said.. The five-year-old had been defiled, in the Jambutu area of the same Jimeta in August this year by one 16-year-old Adamu Abdulahi. The injury that he caused her has necessitated four surgeries in the course of the four months since August, and the minor remains in hospital. Shedding further light on the double incidents, the Public Relations Officer of the FMC Yola, Adamu Mohammed, said the father of the five-year-old is an unce to the 15-year-old. “The mother of the 15-year-old was the one who brought the five-year-old to the hospital that time before her own mother could be reached,” Mohammed recalled. Speaking on the latest incident, Mohammed said the survivor was taken to the health facility unconscious and bleeding after she was said to have been brought out of a vehicle which drove off. He said the 15-year- old survivor has regained consciousness, having been stabilised by doctors, and has disclosed that while she was going back home, following through the shortcut road she was used to, between Central Primary School and the former Nitel, some metres from where they later returned her unconscious, three thugs in a vehicle suddenly stopped by her, insisting that they would take her home. “I declined their offer. I told them that I would not be helped by strange people. They told me that they knew my uncle as well as our home and that I should not be afraid. “When I refused, they forced me into their vehicle and covered my nose and mouth with a handkerchief on which they probably applied something,” the teenager said. She added that the next thing was finding herself on the hospital bed with pains below her abdomen. DSP Sulaiman Nguroje, the Police spokesman in Adamawa State,  was unavailable for comment as he was yet to pick his calls by press time.