By Okorie Uguru Twenty-two hotel properties will be added to Nigerian hospitality industry in the next three years. The 22 hotels by BON will add  about 6000 bed spaces to the Nigeria hospitality industry.  The new hotel developments are set for major city routes in the North and South. Among the major cities and towns the hotels will be sited include: Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt as well as towns and cities such as Kano, Yola, Kebbi, Ekiti, Ibadan, Warri, Enugu, Asaba, Owerri, and Awka, and some others. These new properties will focus on not only local and international business travellers, but keen leisure travellers too. According a press release by BON Hotels, the tourism landscape of Nigeria has long been dominated by business travellers and many of these travellers have stayed in traditional, multinational hotels with a run-of-the-mill approach to hospitality. This Bon Hotels group has changed in its  approach to hospitality expansion in the country. Beginning in Abuja, BON Hotels first acquired a quaint 20-roomed hotel back in 2015 and transformed the previously struggling boutique hotel into a flourishing business-focused property, determined to provide loyal clients with reliable conferencing facilities and outstanding hospitality. “Our ethos has always been to add value, create tourism circuits, expand the hospitality sector into all regions holistically and, in so doing, extract value. That’s been my mission and goal,” says BON Hotels Executives Director for International West Africa, Bernard Cassar. BON Hotels, which manages and owns hotels, lodges and resort throughout Southern Africa, as well as West and East Africa, continued with hotels in Enugu, Asokoro and further properties in Abuja, and the growth since then has been exponential.  “The hospitality industry in Nigeria has previously focused on major cities like Lagos and Abuja, with multinational companies copying and pasting their approach of launching large hotels in the capitals in African cities, and ignoring the potential of venturing into smaller but as important cities. This has resulted in limited options for both local and business travellers, who would not always be stationed in major cities. This has resulted in limited options for both local and business travellers, who would not always be stationed in major cities. This is where BON Hotels seeks to fill the gap and provide visitors with quality accommodation and outstanding conferencing facilities run at international standards in cities like Warri, Asaba and Apo. “Since the inception of our hotel group, we have always advocated for investment in Africa by Africans, and being able to work with such talented groups of people across the continent makes us not only hopeful, but assured of the exponential growth of the hospitality industry throughout Africa,” he said.