Prominent Nigerians, including the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; former Chief of Army Staff, General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd) and a leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, on Thursday lamented the state of affairs in Nigeria, claiming that Yoruba race was being subjugated. The personalities spoke on the occasion of the launch of a book on Tribune newspapers entitled: “70th Years of Progressive Journalism,” held at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Ibadan. Other notable individuals in attendance at the event include: Emeritus Professor Oladipo Akinkugbe, Pa Reuben Fasoranti (Leader of the Afenifere socio-cultural group), Pa Ayo Adebanjo, ex-governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Pa Michael Koleoso; Group Managing, Odu’a Investment Company Limited, Mr. Adewale Raji; Basorun Kola Daisi and Dr. Alex Anozie, among others. The event was chaired by Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), who was represented by Prof. Olowu with the Chairman of African Newspapers of Nigeria PLC, publishers of Nigerian Tribune titles, Ambassador (Dr.) Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosunmu; the MD/EIC of the paper, Edward Dickson, among many other management staff, were also in attendance. In his address, the Alaafin described the hate speech bill before the National Assembly as “misplaced,” adding that Nigerian politics was gradually drifting to a state where freedom of expression was to be muffled. He said: “Nigeria is gradually drifting to a state of an offence of hate speech that attracts penalty of death. If I have not killed anyone; and I give an opinion that is contrary to the government’s, will it be a sufficient reason for me to be charged for death penalty? Addressing the Alaafin, Chief Ayo Adebanjo said: “The new task for you now is not just to tell us what Awolowo said, it is not just to tell us what Awolowo had done, you are in the forefront now to carry it out. Yorubaland is in danger.” Similarly, Theophilus Danjuma said: “In Yorubaland, everybody seems to have lost their voice, scared. And people appear not to care about what is happening. If I tell you what I know that is happening in Nigeria today, you will no longer sleep. “ In her opening remark, the Chairman of the Nigerian Tribune, Ambassador (Dr.) Olatokunbo Awolowo Dosunmu, eulogised her late father for for establishing Nigerian Tribune in 1949.