 The Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, Group Managing Director/CEO, Coscharis Group Limited, Josiah Samuel, Managing Director/CEO Sterling Bank PLc, Abubakar Suleiman, Small & Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) Director General, Radda Dikko, among other dignitaries have confirmed their attendance at the second Financial Markets Conference of the Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA). In a statement, FMDA said the  event scheduled for Friday, December 6, at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, will focus on the theme: “The Nigerian Financial Market – An Agent for Growth and Development” with a welcome address by FMDA President, Mrs. Adetoun Dosunmu. The  Honourable Speaker, Federal House of Representative, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, will make the opening remarks while the CBN Governor, Emefiele will be the keynote speaker.  On the theme: “The Nigerian Financial Market – An Agent for Growth and Development”. According to FMDA,  the programme which begins at 2pm is an opportunity for the nation’s financial market operators, regulators, investors, corporates and other stakeholders to discuss ways of using financial market to facilitate economic development. The conference sub-themes include:  “Unlocking Real Sector Development: SMEs as an Agent of Growth and Development” to be discussed by Managing Director/CEO Sterling Bank Plc, Abubakar Suleiman, Executive Secretary/CEO Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission,  Ms. Yewande Sadiku, Director General, The Economic Thinktank Centre Ltd, Emmanuel M. Abolo  and SMEDAN Director General Dikko. Chief Risk Officer at Stanbic IBTC Bank, Dr Ladin Oyefuga will be the guest speaker and will be speaking on the theme: “Risk Management as a Developmental Tool”. The FMDA is an association of licensed Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) operating within the Nigeria financial market, emphasizing on regulatory policy engagement, advocacy and professional ethics in the financial markets.