By Bassey Anthony, Uyo The Akwa Ibom state chapter of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) has discredited the free and compulsory education programme of the state government, saying it is not holistic enough. Its chairman Comrade Etim Etim Ukpong told reporters in Uyo that the free and compulsory education programme was only tuition-free but lacking in other key support areas. Ukpong noted that the government has failed to provide basic teaching and learning aids to public schools such that a reasonable number of pupils and students sit on bare floor due to lack tables and chairs. He also disclosed that for five terms, government has not released subventions to school heads to enable them buy chalk and carry out the day to day running of schools. According to him, government for five years has refused to release monies for science practicals and online registration of WAEC candidates, lamenting that the situation has forced most school heads to use their personal money to run the system. “We have private schools dotted all over which mean that they are in competition with public schools. You cannot rule out that one. “Teachers today face a lot of challenges. One since the free education came in all persons who ab initio did not have any hope of going to school have now come out to school. “Most of them do not have direct sponsors in terms of who buys school uniform, who buys pen and exercise books not to talk of math set which the child may never have “And government does not provide these ones but teachers need these things to teach the students. So have you seen the contradiction? “When you go to town blaming the teachers for doing this and that have also forgotten that you have refused to address these areas? “Now talking about subvention government owes school heads of primary and post-primary schools five full terms of subventions.” Ukpong also lamented that the government has not paid leave grants and promotion arrears of primary school teachers for five years. The NUT boss noted that public schools in the state were short of teachers, adding that the teacher-student ratio was a teacher to a hundred students, which is a far cry from UNESCO standard. “There are only 18,780 teachers in public primary and secondary schools in the state. There are 1,161 public primary schools and 243 public secondary schools. He urged government to stop politicising the recruitment exercise for teachers to achieve the best quality of teaching which, according to him, was at a low end at the moment.