Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  After successful passage of the Executive Bill sent to the Kano State House of Assembly for the creation of Four more Emirates in the state, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano state signs the Bill into Law Thursday, at Coronation Hall, Government House, Kano. An action that now paved way for having five Emirates in the state. As governor observed that the last Law was challenged in the court of law as being sponsored by private hands, blaming that the Bill then was not from state Executive. Ganduje said, it was out of respect, though not satisfied with that, the state decided to come to a term to the need for sponsoring another Bill by the Executive, “…just as we did,” he stated. “As a law-abiding administration, we came and deliberated upon that at the State Executive Council. After which we sent the Bill to the State House of Assembly, seeking for the creation of 4 additional Emirates, namely Bichi, Rano, Gaya and Karaye,” he said. He further explained that “After successfully passing the Bill by the House, here we are, as you are all witnessing the singing of the Bill into a Law. And our Emirates have come to stay.” All things concerning the new Emirates were done, according to the governor “To bring development closer to the people. We need sustainable socio-economic development for our dear state. We need further improvement in the security system and well being of our people.” The Law provides that there will be individual Emirate Council in all the now 5 Emirates. And membership of the Councils is drawn from the Emir, who heads the Council of his own domain, Imam from the Emirate, representative of business community, and other identified group of people from there. At the state level, there is going to be a Central Council of Emirs, that will consist of all the five Emirs in the state as well as representatives of other identified groups of people. The new system is more of injecting some semblance of people participation in their socio-economic development through the traditional institutions. While the Chairman of the Central Council of Emirs will be appointed by the governor, who will chair the Council for two years, it is again the prerogative of the Governor to make sure that the Chairmanship goes round all the 5 Emirates. Sanctions are also attached for any erring Emir or any traditional ruler. If an Emir refuses to attend Council of Emirs meetings three times without any concrete and convincing reason, such an Emir’s Turban would be removed, but with consultation of other Emirs, by the Governor. Another action that attracts sanction from the provision of the new Law, is that, if an Emir disrespects the norms and values of his people, where such an Emir’s action goes against the culture and tradition of his people, he would face the music. Ganduje warns “Any Emir or any traditional ruler who goes against the provision of this Law, such a person will definitely face the music. He will surely be punished without any wasting of time.” He, therefore, called on all those District Heads who refuse to pay homage to their Emirs to dress up, warning that “If you refuse to pay homage because you then prepare for being dethroned.”