SHORTLY after the electoral commission, INEC, declared All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Smart Adeyemi winner of the Kogi West senatorial rerun, party chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, issued a statement mocking the loser, Dino Melaye of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The chairman is entitled to his exultation, considering that what matters to him is bagging as many states as possible and aligning them with the APC column for 2023. He was emphatic that Senator Melaye’s loss was a confirmation of the wages of rebellion which has seen the 16 APC senators that defected to the PDP  before the last polls losing their seats. Said Mr Oshiomhole: “I have always believed in the ability of the people of Kogi West to elect leaders who will make them proud in the Senate and not the defeated Senator Melaye who is among the 16  Senators who rebelled against our party. As it stands today, the broom has swept away the entire 16 Senators, Dino being the last, who tried to destabilise our democracy for their personal interest, jettisoning the interest of the electorate. On behalf of our great party the APC, I congratulate my brother and friend, Senator Smart Adeyemi, once again and we look forward toward working with you in this resolve by our dear President Muhammadu Buhari to take the nation to the ‘Next level’.” Mr Oshiomhole puts a noble spin on the Melaye gang of 16 loss. He says that loss is tantamount to a moral sacrifice that fittingly consumed the defeated senator and his other cohorts. But moral sacrifice? Well, since Mr Oshiomhole has become very philosophical, could he please find the noblesse oblige to speak to last week’s desecration orchestrated by the Department of State Service (DSS) against the judiciary in the Omoyele Sowore case? Surely, the APC cannot afford to be silent on this grave issue or fail to be counted when it matters most. During President Muhammadu Buhari’s first term, the DSS had invaded the legislature and caused widespread outrage. Now it has invaded the courts in a replication of its shocking contempt for Nigeria’s endangered democracy, and has dared anyone to carp at their power abuse. Would Mr Oshiomhole keep quiet, railing only against defeated political foes? Does he not see the more pressing danger, the larger picture?