As the people of Imo State await the final verdict on the governorship poll, Declan Emelumba revisits the grounds of litigation by the All Progressives Congress (APC) against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). All eyes are on the Supreme Court to see how it will determine the legal battle on Imo State governorship election, which is now before it. It should be obvious to all discerning minds that the Supreme Court’s final decision on the case amounts to a historic archetypal pronouncement on the sanctity of both our constitution, electoral laws and the electoral process. This is so because either way, the apex court would by its final judgement either reinforce  the basic foundations of our constitution and electoral laws or bruise them irredeemablely. The issues begging for determination are germane and weigh directly on the very soul of the constitution and the electoral process. Let us be clear, the conduct  and outcome of the last governorship  election in Imo State were quite controversial and mind boggling. The incredulous drama that played out at the collation centres were clear pointers to the fact that something stranger than fiction was cooking When eventually the magical concoction was  done and served on the Imo public it still came as a rude shock to many It was clear to  objective observers that the electoral process had been gravely compromised. Many vexed issues were immediately thrown up. Those issues, for clarity, have been aptly encased in the petition of the APC candidate, Senator Hope Uzodimma, challenging the declaration of the PDP candidate, Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha, as the winner of the March governorship election and I summarise them under two heads by way of questions; to wit: Did  Ihedioha of the PDP meet the constitutional requirement of scoring the highest votes cast in the election and 25% of the votes in two thirds or 18 of the 27 Local government areas in the state. 2  Were the results of  Uzodimma from 388 polling units unlawfully excluded from the final tally of votes which if added makes him the winner of the election and if so what are the legal remedies as provided for in our electoral laws On the first issue of whether the PDP candidate met the constitutional requirement to be declared winner of the election, it is common knowledge to even the apolitically inclined that he did not. The score sheet of the election announced by INEC is a public document that says it all. Not a few have expressed worry about the implications of this constitutional breach for our democracy at large The observations of Dr Ugoji Egbujo, a well known columnist with the Vanguard Newspapers captures the general public mood and bewilderment on the matter. In his column in Saturday Vanguard of November 23 on page 36, he wrote : “Then, there is this other demon. It must have operated the day Imo governorship election results were announced. It is an irresponsible demon.  I don’t know what else to call it. The returning officer of Imo state governorship election is a professor. Imo state has 27 Local government areas.  The constitution requires that the candidate with a majority of votes can only be announced winner if he has 25% of votes cast in at least two thirds of the Local government areas. The Imo returning officer who is a professor announced a winner. The candidate whom he announced as winner has 25% votes cast in only 12 Local government areas instead of 18. INEC accepted the announcement and asked aggrieved persons to go to court. I haven’t been able to understand how the professor worked out his own math (2/3×27). He has left millions of school children baffled. It is possible that some plantain mathematics is used in Banana republics to solve simple election questions” Of course, Dr Egbujo is not the only one mystified by this banana mathematics from a mathematics professor. Many members of the public are,and I suspect his professor colleagues will be even more at  loss.  And make no mistake, it is not only millions of school children that are baffled,  millions of adults are too. INEC asked aggrieved persons to go to court. And that they did. But what happened in the court so far? More bewilderment. The tribunal refused to take a categorical stand on the two thirds issue and instead hid under technicalities to sweep it under the carpet. More incredibly four court of appeal judges agreed with the tribunal. Many are yet to come to grips with what appears to be unfolding, to wit,that some members of the judiciary, the last hope of the common man, can actually look the public in the face and practically tell them ” Never mind about this constitutional stuff. Who are we to do better than a professor of mathematics. At anyrate win is win.” But there is a ray of hope coming from a court of appeal judge who  audaciously disagreed with his colleagues and stood firmly for the truth. And this brings  us to the second issue of unlawful exclusion of the results of the APC candidate from 388 polling units. Justice Frederick Oho, of the court  of appeal, in his dissenting judgement declared that the APC candidate won the governorship election It is instructive that the tribunal in dismissing the prayer of Uzodimma for the votes he scored in the 388 polling units to  be added to the final tally relied on an issue that was not canvassed by the parties. The tribunal held that the APC candidate could not prove that his votes from the said units were excluded because the polling units agents were not called to testify that elections held in the units. Incredible. Yet the parties joined issues at the hearing claiming that the results were forged  But they never produced the correct results. Even  INEC  challenged to produce the original results from the units, failed. This is why the dissenting judgement of Justice Oho is quite revealing Here are extracts from his judgement: “It is clear that from the state of pleading of the parties, while Appellants had the burden of proving the reduction, omission or exclusion of their results from collation, the Respondent’s had the burden of proving that the 388 polling units result sheets relied upon by the Appellants are forged. From the printed records,to  therefore suggest that the Appellants succeeded in the hilt in discharging the burden of proof placed on them with regard to the exclusion of results, is to state the obvious. This is against the backdrop of the fact that the Respondents who alleged forgery, a criminal offence, woefully failed to adduce any scintilla of evidence in proof of the allegation. As if this was not enough at the hearing of the petition the Respondents failed to comply with the provisions of paragraph 12(12) and 15 of the first schedule of the electoral Act by pleading what they claimed to be genuine results to enable the tribunal compare the two sets of results for the purpose of determining which of the two sets of results was the authentic result from the 388 polling units sience the respondents disputed the authenticity of the results tendered before the tribunal The consequence of neglect to or failure to comply with the provisions of paragraph 12(2) and 15 of the first schedule to the Electoral Act 2010 is that the 388 polling unit results tendered by the Appellants are deemed not challenged or controverted.  See AGUGU&ORS VS. MIMIKO & ORS(2009),LPELR 2H49(CA), HASSAN VS TUMU(1999) 10 NWLR(PT624) 700,710, 712. Having taken a very careful consideration of the state of pleadings of the parties, the evidence adduced before the tribunal, it is clear that Appellants succeeded in establishing their entitlement to the main relief sought in the petition and I so hold. The appeal hereby succeeds per force and is accordingly allowed.” Yes, all eyes are indeed, on the supreme court to know how they will rule on the Imo governorship  matter. What will they say about the obvious non compliance with the provisions of the constitution by INEC  and what will they say of the unlawfully excluded results from the 388 polling units. If the apex court refuses to address the flagrant constitutional breach by INEC, it will mean a judicial confirmation that our constitution is not worth more than the ink with which it was printed and that men and institutions can breach it at will. Likewise will its decision on the results from the 388 polling units speak volumes on the relevance of our electoral laws. Indeed the world is waiting    