Our Reporter  The 1994/99 set of the Association of Mass Communication Students (AMACOS), Ogun State Polytechnic, now Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta, Ogun State, has donated multimedia equipment to its former department as a way of giving back. The presentation was made to the head of department, Mr Kolawole Amos during a programme tagged “The 20 Years Re-Union of Seasoned Communicators” held in Abeokuta at the weekend. While receiving the gift, Head of Department of Mass Communication, MAPOLY, Mr Kolawole Amos, who came in company with Dr. Wasiu Tejuosho and Dr. Shola Adeosun, thanked the alumni for being the first to give back to the department. “This is the first time any set will give back to the Department of Mass Communication,” he said. Amos assured the alumni that he would inform the institution’s rector of the gesture. Meanwhile, the association has elected its first set of leaders. They include: Mr Lanre Oyegbola (President); Mrs. Fadeke Omo-Omorodion (Vice-President); Mr. Babatunde Majekodunmi (VP International); Mr. Goke Dairo (General Secretary), and Mrs. Olufunke Ogunlade (Chief whip). Others are: Mrs. Anne Olubukola Ogundowo (Social Secretary); Mr. Olusegun Koiki (Public Relations Officer); Mr. Olawunmi Omotoyinbo (Welfare Officer); Mrs. Toyin Dairo (Finance Officer); and Mrs. Rasheedat Adetutu Ajayi-Yakub (Treasurer).  In his remarks, the President pledged to work with his team in the interest of the association, stressing that part of his agenda was to allow a flow of talents and give back to the alma mater. Earlier, the Alumni had presented cash prizes to some students for their exceptional performance in various mass communication courses. They include: Rebecca Adelakun (best student in Advertising, HND II); Aishat Balogun (Advertising, HND II, part-time); Emmanuel Bashiru (print journalism, HND II). Others were: Boluwaji Jegede (Public Relations); Hauwa Musa (Broadcast, HND II full time); and Tobiloba Adesanya (Broadcast, HND II evening). Secretary of the association, Goke Dairo, counselled the students to be conversant with technology which keeps redefining all jobs in communication industry.  According to him, technology will take over most jobs in the nearest future and only those conversant will be relevant.