Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta A herdsman identified as Muhammad Garba, has allegedly killed one Segun Akinlade in his farm located in Imala area of Ogun state. Garba was said to have killed the 35 years farmer on December 1 with cutlass when he led his herds of cattle to graze on the deceased farm. The farm owner tried to chase Garba away with catapult and stone but lost his life in the process. The stone, it was learnt struck the herdsman on his forehead, he staggered and in anger charged back at the farm owner when he regained his balance and a duel ensued between them as both were armed with cutlasses. Segun who was overpowered, collapsed and allegedly died of injuries from machete cuts while his assailant – herdsman was arrested by the Police shortly after the killing. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident and arrest of the herdsman, stated that the corpse of the farm owner has been recovered. Abimbola; a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), stated further that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson has directed that the suspect should be  transferred  to the homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution. He stated: “The suspect was arrested following a distress call received by the police at imala division that fight has broke out between herdsmen and farmers in Imala. “As a result,  the Divisional Police Officer,  imala division, Mobolaji Jimoh, quickly mobilized his men and moved to the scene. “On getting to the scene, the corpse of the deceased was met on the ground while the suspect who also sustained machete cut injuries was identified and promptly arrested. READ ALSO: Court remands herdsman for allegedly killing farmer in Niger “Preliminary investigation revealed that trouble started when the deceased got to his newly cleared farm land and met the suspect grazing his cattle there, in order to chase him away, he used a catapult to frighten him but the catapult stone hits the herdsman on the forehead. “This infuriated the suspect who brought out cutlass to fight the deceased who was also with a cutlass. “The two of them used cutlass on each other resulting to the death of the deceased. The corpse of deceased has been deposited in the mortuary for autopsy.”