By Emmanuel Oladesu  No fewer than six All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains from the Comrade Adams  Oshiomhole camp are eyeing the party’s governorship ticket for next year’s election in Edo State. The chieftains are positioning themselves and warming up for the shadow poll, which will be another test for the crisis-ridden chapter, owning to the protracted rift between the national chairman and Governor Godwin Obaseki. According to party insiders, the governor may dump the ruling party for one of the opposition platforms to seek a fresh mandate at the poll. The sources said some of his associates have opened talks with leaders of two major opposition parties. But, the governor has denied the rumour of defection, saying that no condition can make him jump ship. The contenders eyeing Obaseki’s job are Gen.Charles Airhiavere, Chris Ogienwonye, Saturday Umulekwe, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, D. Pius Odubu and Kenneth Edebiri. The calculation of the aspirants is that, with the national chairman still at the helm of party affairs, there is no way the governor can secure a second term ticket  unless there is amicable resolution of the  conflict. In fact, the camp of the governor is intensifying the campaigns for Oshiomhole’s ouster as party chairman because he is in a vantage position to influence the outcome of the Edo governorship primary in favour of his preferred candidate. Also, the aspirants, who are oilng their structures ahead of the selection process are not in support of reconciliation between the governor and the national chairman because the peace moves,  which will definitely favour Obasrki, will be detrimental to their ambition. Since Oshiomhole had initially hoped that Obaseki will spent two terms of eight years before the escalation of the personality crisis, the search for a new candidate from his camp has been very challenging. Sources close to the former governor said he has not zeroed his mind on a particular aspirant. The success of the Reconciliation Committe set up by the national leadership or otherwise may determine the fate of the governor and other aspirants outside his camp. Only Obaseki is contesting in his camp. Gen. Airhiavere is a former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) before he defected to the APC. He was an aspirant in 2012 and 2016. Lately, he has been a critic of the Obaseki government. To him, the governor does not deserve re-election, based on his performance. Ogienwonye, an engineer, is a former Minister of State for Works. He contested against Obaseki during the 2016 primary.  Umuelekwe, a former Commissioner for Transport under former Governor Oshiomhole, is a staunch member of the camp led by the national chairman. Pastor Ize-Iyamu served as Secretary to Government in the Lucky Igbinedion administration. He was the national vice chairman (Southsouth) of the APC. In 2016, he was the PDP governorship candidate. His defection to the APC last week sparked a row between the camps of the APC loyal to Obaseki and Oshiomhole. A source said Odubu may be drafted into the race, if he eventually loses the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) job. He is a key member of the Oshiomhole camp. For eight years, the doctor of Law served as deputy governor under Oshiomhole. Although he competed for the governorship ticket in 2016, he lost to Obaseki. Edebiri is a businessman and committed party member. To the camp of Obaseki, the only obstacle to the second term ambition is Oshiomhole, who as national chairman is in a vantage position to influence the governorship selection process. The factional chairman, Anselm Ojezua,  has maintained that Oshiomhole has been suspended by the state chapter. In fact, the camp is disposed to frantic efforts being made by anti-Oshiomhole forces to remove him as chairman. There is no agreement on the reconciliation panel set up by the national leadership as the governor’s group has raised objection.