With six days to Christmas, the shopping tempo is already high. Shoppers are busy making the best out of the season while traders are smiling to the bank, JANE CHIJIOKE reports  The shopping frenzy is almost at its peak. Footfalls at various shopping malls and open markets are fast increasing as shoppers seek to get items to celebrate in the euphoria of the season. To many, shopping for the festive period is a necessity.  The need to look fashionable, decorate the home, have family timeouts, and even stuck up food items in the home, have become annual rituals shoppers engage in. Welcome to the yuletide- a season of trade bargaining. At various markets visited, retailers were seen displaying their Christmas wares, including enticing prospective buyers with juicy offers as “sales promotions.” Items such as wears, Christmas decorations such as lights, trees, hats, including other accessories like foot wears, gift items and other items attracted huge traffic. In the last few weeks shopping has been in the upsurge. Retailers explained that there has been increase in the quantity of items sold. According  to Ndubuisi, a  trader at Yaba Market, the patronage for wears have increased since the beginning of the month. He now makes at least N20,000 on daily basis as against the previous months. Tobi  Akande, who sells gifts and Christmas accessories at Balogun market  said sales of her Xmas lights and trees have been tremendous considering that it serves as decorations for both homes, offices, market areas and even streets. She noted that as at same time last year, sales were poor even with the discount she offered but same was not the case this year. With a starting price of N1, 500, Akande remarked that her customers are attracted by the generous offer of discount she has placed on her wares at this season, just as they equally appreciate the aesthetics Xmas decorations adds to the festive period. This position was attested to by Harrison Adekoya, a shopper seen at Yaba Market who said the prices on some of the wears were relatively cheap which attracted him to do some shopping. For Walter George and his wife, but for their children, the unfavourable economy is a drawback to celebrating Christmas. “There is no money to have a good Xmas celebration. The economy is not encouraging. But then, having kids at home, who are so much anticipating Christmas, you cannot but put smiles on their faces,” George said. The shopping frenzy is also inclusive of food items. Despite the increase in food prices spurred by the closure of the border, some retailers are already smiling to the bank. They said regardless of the increase, it is a season that attracts brisk sales. “Christmas period is usually a good sales period for us though there are exceptions at times. Since last week, sales have doubled. Customers are stocking their homes with food items to celebrate with friends and family. Some would love to have varieties of food and drinks, some would send food items to their families in the village even some organisations would gift their workers. So all these account for more sales for us,” said Mrs Busayo Akanbi, a trader in Arena Market, Oshodi. A dealer in poultry products at the Arena Market, Musa Yusuf, noted that patronage has increased just as it was last year. He explained that chicken, which is a significant item most Christian faithful use in the celebration is relatively cheap, thus boosting their sales number. Echoing similar sentiment, another trader who deals in frozen foods, Mr Eze Agu showed readiness to make brisk sales next week. “Frozen foods are usually a big market during this season. There is always a rush for this product. Last year, just within a week to Christmas, I sold not less than 150 cartons so I am hopeful I will surpass that this year because already, patronage has increased,” Agu said.   