Our Reporter  This year’s Ogbunike Cave Festival (CaveFest) is set to honour the memory of former Senate President, Dr. Chuba William Okadigbo. The honour is coming 16 years after Okadigbo’s death. Billed to open on December 30, the festival starts with the CaveFest Symposium at the Ogbunike Town Hall, Ogbunike, starting from 9am. The session which has the traditional ruler of Ogbunike, HM Igwe John Ositadimma Umenyiora (Ezedioramma 1) as Father of the day, will see wife of the late Senate President, Sen. Margery Okadigbo speak on the topic, 16 Years After, Remembering Chuba Okadigbo. Her presentation will be followed by a panel discussion where panelists will share their experiences on the life and times of the late politician, who put Ogbunike community on the international stage. There will also be opportunity for kinsmen, friends, colleagues and lovers of the late political to pay tribute. While the member representing Oyi/Ayamelum Federal Constituency at the House of Reps, Hon. Vincent Ofumelu, will be the special guest of honour, the symposium will also feature a presentation by Engr. Ifeanyi Aniagoh, DG Digital Entrepreneurship Office, MYECE, Anambra State, on the topic, Leadership and Emerging Career Opportunities.  The festival continues on December 31, at 8am, with the Walk4life, a procession that will start from the Ogbunike Town Hall, with a stop-over at the Round Palace of Igwe Ogbunike, before heading for the famous Ogbunike Cave. Usually spiced with music, dance and comedy, the event will provide opportunity for tourists and guests to tour the Ogbunike Cave, which is one of the major tourist attractions in Nigeria. Ogbunike Cave Festival (CaveFest) was first staged on December 31, 2013, as health walk/mini carnival dubbed Ogbunikewalk4life. Aside from using the platform to promote healthy living among youths of the community, the initiative, which was hosted as Ogbunike Cave Carnival at some point, aims at drawing attention of the government to the popular Ogbunike Cave, as well as celebrate it’s tourism potentials.