By Adegunle Olugbamila  Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED) Oto/Ijanikin, has reinstated its commitment to appreciating  colleagues who have retired from the system after a meritorious service. This gesture would make these ‘patriarchs and matriarchs’ realise the institution still have them at heart despite that they have thrown in the trowel. Provost of AOCOED Dr Omolara Aina Ladele, made this assurance during a maiden send forth party for this year’s retirees at the institution’s premises. The retirees, nine in numbers are: Mr Raji Lasis Lawal, Mr Olajide James Ajibade; Dr Odigie Justina Isibhakhomen; Dr Lanre Joseph Aiyejuyo; Dr Christopher Sunday Daodu; Mr Balami Banjoko Alli; Dr Olaseni Samuel Ajogbasile; Mr Bakare Kolawole Muheeb and Dr John Abiola Adewopyin. “As a college, we have had workers that have retired; but this is the first time we are coming together to appreciate and honour them,” Ladele began. “We felt this is better late than never. We want to tell them that we value the time they have spent “We have some of them that spent 35 years and above. Some of them personally worked with me. I could remember that at the heat of duty, some of them sacrificed their time and work late into the night, denying themselves luxuries and some other things. Our happiness is that now that they are retired, they can now enjoy their families.” She said the honour done the retirees speaks volumes of their immense contributions while in the system, challenging others workers to leave good legacies so that fellow workers wound not speak ill of them after they have retired. Thankfully Ladele recounted how the college got the nod of the Lagos State Pension Commission to pay staff retirement benefits for their colleagues who retired since 2015, following a raise in AOCOED monthly subvention by the immediate past administration. She said the institution has remained committed to fulfilling this role, adding that the new retirees’ benefits would not also pose any hurdle. Matron of the College Health Centre Fasinro Bisi, gave some health tips to the retirees. She admonished them to henceforth use a substantial part of their time to rest. Fasinro advised them to spend their monthly retirement benefits wisely, avoid excess partying, engage in modest body exercises and ensure good diet, particularly consumption of vegetables. A former national president of College of education Academic Staff Union Comrade Sam Akindele, noted that one of the roles of unionists is praising management when it does well, and rebuking them anytime they err. According to him, management deserves applause for appreciating their now retired colleagues.  “I have worked with some of these people for nearly 40 years; so it will be difficult for me to start talking about them one after the other. “These people have truly paid their due in the system. I congratulate you all and wish the best even in retirement,” said Akindele who later joined the management team to present gift to some of the retirees. The highpoint of the event was the cutting of the cake, presentation of gift to retirees by management as well as the usual ‘Item 7’ and dance session. Expressing appreciation on behalf of others, Dr Odigie, said the college ethics would continue to linger in her memory. “I love the college ethics,” said Odigie. “We have this feeling of oneness and the desire to work as a team. “I am from Ishan in Edo State. I joined this college in March 1984, but I’ve never felt like an outsider because my colleagues never treated me as so. I am a very strict person; yet the system, allows me to work in different departments. Even after I had my Ph.D, many thought I was going to leave the system; but I chose to stay back because of the love and cooperation I enjoyed.” 