We are surrounded by signs. Street signs (No, the Delamis don’t live here no more; they’re now in Bermuda), direction signs (The number you’re looking for is one door to the left, fool!), food signs (No, this is 1,000 calories way beyond your limit!), gate signs (The dog is ok, it’s the owner you should beware of), even armed robbers’ signs (Get ready for us next week, the midnight snack is at your place), etc. But the most important ones are not so explicitly stated. You have to read them yourself. For instance, you have to read correctly when someone is welcoming you into their life (a big, wide smile), and when someone is hoping you will never as much as look at them again (a small, tight smile). I once flashed someone a small, tight smile and he asked, ‘Are you all right? You look as if something you ate is disagreeing with you.’ When I survey the whole gamut of human-specific communicative signs, I find none quite conveys the feelings generated by the pressures of modern living in this modern Nigeria. In those days when I was quite little and growing up in one beatific, remote and rustic village, for instance, electricity was constant and the bills were moderate. It was a very mysterious operation to us children then, which only my grandmother knew how to do. She would just strike a match and light the wick on the wee, palm oil lamp. And to our unending amazement, there would be light! In those days, too, no one knew the government. It sat in one silent, remote island where no one ever went to visit it, nor did it pay any attention to anyone. Everyone just sort of took it for granted that if you did not pay your tax, a certain government would pay you a visit; and if you advertently or inadvertently went after a madman who lived in the middle of the road with your car, a certain government would come after you with its noose! Really, no one knew the government. Now though, the government is everywhere and everyone knows it. Listen. Every Nigerian now knows that electricity does not come from oil wicks anymore but from some damned water (forgive the pun!); that rice, the staple food of Nigerians, is not grown by Nigerians but by the rich countries who then sell to the poor ones; and that the price of government is way over our heads. Even the Nigerian order of the criminally insane knows this. The other day, I drove out in the early dawn of a December morn and, in the gloom-encased misty street, street-lights sans light provided the only punctuation marks along the road. I saw a man standing in front of an electric pole, which, needless to say, was not aware of his presence. I could tell, even in that gloomy mist, that the man was a little wanting in sanity. I mean, you have got to be a psychiatric patient to be standing and gazing at an electric pole at half past six in the morning! As I approached, I saw that he was doing more than gazing. He was punching the air, his mouth moving furiously and his eyes intent on the pole. Rather! I thought, perhaps, he was in pain. As I moved closer, I saw other signs which did not indicate pain however; they indicated someone caught in a deep conversation. His dirt-brown, emaciated figure swayed slightly to and fro as he talked intently, his cheeks burgeoning new swellings at each enunciation, eyes bulging into the pole and his index finger wagging at it. Then it dawned on me: he was addressing the poor pole, much like Socrates choosing to formally persuade his errant pupil to see the error of his ways rather than beat the living daylights out of him! Now, that is a thought, the style of address I mean, not the beating. The newspapers have lately been shattering our ear drums with comments and commentaries on the inordinately large amounts of money the country’s assembly members have been awarding themselves in the name of salaries and allowances; and all efforts to make them see reason have sort of fallen on deaf ears. To boot, anyone who has deigned to comment on the situation has summarily been summoned to the hallowed chambers to explain, not themselves, but their English usages. Actually, that is precisely why I am writing this commentary. The story goes that once upon a time, our very own Tortoise learnt of the plight of his dear friend the lizard. Lizard had been summoned by the king of their town for a minor infringement: for witlessly sitting on the king’s throne that had been taken to the river to be washed. What arrant nonsense, fumed Tortoise as he prepared to go and commiserate with his friend. On arriving at his house, he learnt that Lizard had gone to obey the king’s summons and so he too headed the way of the palace. On getting there, he had to wait for a few moments for Lizard to come out. To his surprise, Lizard emerged from the interview smiling and wearing purple robes. ‘What the…! The lizard quickly explained however. ‘By sitting on the throne, I unknowingly removed a thorn that had been lodged inside it for ages, and so, instead of the punishment I was expecting, I was rewarded because I had helped the king!’ ‘And where is the thorn now?’ asked the tortoise. ‘In my buttocks’, replied the lizard showing him the red spot and wincing. At this, Tortoise knocked down his friend, extracted the thorn, stuck it into his buttocks and ran into the king’s throne-room. You should have guessed by now just where I am going with this: by commenting on the matter of our legislators’ pay, I am hoping to also receive the legislated command: come and explain your English in Abuja! Oh, how I would sorely like to be summoned! I am quite sure that I would enjoy some relief from the monotony of unrelieved darkness that PHCN is forcing down on me, since the assembly grounds are bound to have enough electricity even for their plants. I am also sure that when I sink my feet into those plushy carpets and my behind into the plushy chairs the owners don’t like to use, I would get some real good sleep while waiting for their legislative highnesses to form a quorum. On second thoughts, I better not go. For one thing, I don’t think I have enough English to explain my English. For another thing, I find I am highly and inadequately trained to take on such a body of people exuding signs that can only be matched by someone trained in the art of talking to electric poles early in the morning. My early morning psychiatric patient is, I think, infinitely more qualified to handle the job. I have therefore designated him to represent me, for he would employ a more effective method to clear up the problem. Since only the deep can call to the deep, he would talk to the assembly members in a language both of them understand, seeing they both belong to the same order. In my book, there is no greater sign of membership of this order than for a legislative house to be receiving such bloated pays, as alleged, in a country where nothing works and every single household has to source for its own electricity, water, road, waste disposal method, and everything else in between. It far surpasses talking to electric poles at half past six on a gloomy morning.  ***This is the introductory article to the PU column. It was published in January, 2011. Sadly, nothing has changed.