By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie Stricter measures in mobilising corps members for national service have helped reduce the number of fakes, the new Area Coordinator, NYSC Southwest Zone, Mr Emmanuel Attah has said. Speaking on the sidelines of the opening of the Batch C Stream II orientation camp in Iyana Ipaja on Monday, Attah who was visiting the state said monitoring of the corps producing tertiary institutions by the new NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, helped reduce the number of fake corps members that show up in camp by up to 17,000. He said: “You can see this is a new NYSC.  The Director-General, within six months of assumption of duty, has been doing marvelous job for the scheme. One strong area which he has done is the terms of the mobilization and process where now fake corps members are now afraid to ever attempt to come and serve when they are not qualified.  We are also aware that some of them have been prosecuted. “One of the first things the Director General did was to have a meeting with all Corps producing Institutions in Nigeria and in Africa.  And there he read the riot act to them that it will no longer be business as usual.  It will interest you that this has trimmed the over 20,000 we were to mobilize as foreign students but just a little over 3,000 or so came.  The rest 16,000 disappear because they are not qualified, they know if they do the NYSC will arrest them.” Attah praised the Lagos State NYSC Coordinator, Mr Sunday Aroni, for maintaining a disciplined camp. “I am impressed with the discipline of the corps members; the cleanliness of the environment; I have tasted their food, which was okay,” he said.  In his speech, Aroni urged the Local Councils/employers to visit at the end of the camp to pick up corps members to their places of primary assignments as required by the law. “May I at this juncture remind Local Government Councils and corps employers that it is their constitutional responsibility to convey corps members to their respective places of primary assignment at the end of this orientation course?  Please bear in mind that most of them are new in the state and may be faced with challenges of navigating their way,” he said. On his part, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, represented by Dr Jimoh Yusuph, counseled the corps members to be disciplined, and active participants of camp activities. The Chief Judge of Lagos, Justice Kazeem Alogba, represented by Justice Adedayo Oyebanji, administered the NYSC oath on the 1,832 corps members – made up of 1,286 females and 546 males. 