Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta  Crisis looms in the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the government of Dapo Abiodun as members of the Aremo Segun Osoba’s political camp on Sunday rejected the commissioner – nominees list sent to the state House of Assembly by the Governor. The loyalists of former Governor Segun Osoba said they were not only dismayed that the commissioner list negated the promise of Governor Abiodun to “run an all inclusive” government, but also disturbed that the policy has turned out to be a ploy to ease Osoba political family out of the present administration in the state. In a statement made available to The Nation and signed by Alhaja Yemisi Ayinla, Mrs Toyin Usifo, Pastor Matthew Oladele, Mr. Jelili Onayemi, Chief Labeth Abodunrin and 12 others on behalf of Osoba’s camp, they alleged that greedy politicians who were responsible for the poor governance of the Gateway state in the past had “hijacked the soul” of Dapo Abiodun’s administration. The Osoba political camp, therefore, called on the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, National leaders of the Party, including Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Akande, Chief Adeniyi Adebayo, Southwest caucus leaders and other well meaning Nigerians to prevail on Abiodun to do the needful and correct the imbalance perceived so far in Ogun State. The statement reads: “We the undersigned and members of All Progressive Congress, APC, Ogun State Chapter, hereby want to express our reservation and rejection of the Commissioner Nominees list submitted to the Ogun State House of Assembly for screening and possible inauguration. “The list does not represent the proclamation made by His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun, that he will run all inclusive government in Ogun State. “The Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, after his victory at the poll, promised to run all inclusive government that will represent the interest of blocs that worked for his victory and other groups interested in contributing positively in running the affairs of the State. “However, to our dismay the words of the Governor was reduced to still born on the face of the list of commissioner nominees and other appointments made by the Governor so far. “We have observed that the slang “all inclusive”, is a ploy to specifically ease out the Osoba Political Family from the administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun and which was sold to the Governor by some power mongers and unscrupulous elements who participated actively in the misrule of the State in the past and are now surrounding the Governor like hyenas, ready to pounce on anyone who does not belong to their camp or pay homage. “Meanwhile, Osoba Political Family has patiently observed the activities of these individuals who are conservatively greedy business men and hijackers of power who have succeeded in hijacking the soul of the present administration in Ogun State. “These power manipulators were part of past government in Ogun State that people in their wisdom rejected but stealthily walked back into the realm of Government through the calm approach to governance by Prince Dapo Abiodun and are ready to wreck further havoc to the dreams and aspirations of the Progressives in the APC and the State who worked tirelessly for the emergence of the Governor. “It is on record and we challenge any of the hijackers to contradict the fact that Our Leader, Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba, against all odds stood solidly by Prince Dapo Abiodun, from the point he decided to run for the office of the Governor and put his hard earned reputation and goodwill at stake to surety Prince Dapo Abiodun before Labour Unions and PMB. “He allowed everything he has, including but not limited to his abode to be used for anything positive for the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the polls. Chief Osoba to our knowledge, stood as guarantor for the person of Prince Dapo Abiodun being a perfect gentle man in many place including but not limited to Palaces of prominent traditional rulers in Ogun State, where the integrity of these power grabbers cannot open the doors talk less of putting their goodwill at stake.  “Chief Olusegun Osoba who is a renowned journalist, a progressive and astute politician who is known for his untainted integrity and always stand for what he believes in; he never looked back when the former Governor of Ogun State threatened fire and war against the aspirations of Prince Dapo Abiodun because he believed in the genuine intentions of Prince Dapo Abiodun to serve the people and turn around the fortune of the State for the best. “Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba in his sincere way of life expended his time, resources and made huge financial contributions towards the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the polls, to the glory of God. “It is on record and also an uncontroverted fact that followers and members of the Osoba Political Family were harassed, shot, macheted, beaten, and dehumanized by the former Governor of the State before the election in order to create fear in the minds of people to truncate the process to the Victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun but the Political family being progressive minded remained unshaken and irrevocably committed to the aspirations of Prince Dapo Abiodun. “We all fought through to actualise the reality of this administration with other groups of common intention and dream, but it is now shocking to the members of the Osoba Political Family that these power mongers and manipulators are condemned to destroy the good relationship that exist between Prince Dapo Abiodun and Osoba Political Family by intentionally and gruesomely relegating anyone known to belong to the Family in the course of appointing persons to position of service to deliver dividends of democracy to the populace that will support in the actualisation of good governance in Ogun State. “We want to reiterate that APC is the party we belong to and we shall not vacate the party for any interloper and hyenas hovering around the Governor as it is now observed. It crystal clear now that they have moved to submerge the structure of the Party in the State, as they arrogate so much powers to themselves because they occupy the corridor of power. The Party shall sure outlive whatever manipulation they have perfected and the strong power and will of the Party to do the needful will surely reincarnate when the time of reckoning comes. “It is necessary to remind these professional power manipulators and hijackers that Our Leader, Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba, has imbibed the spirit of contentment and perseverance in all the followers and we remain irrevocably committed to the success of this administration but we shall no longer fold our arms for the interest of our members who are progressive minded, qualified and loyal to both APC and Prince Dapo Abiodun, to be trampled upon under this administration. “We also want to remind the Governor that the all inclusive government promised has not taken the Osoba Political family into consideration in the past and present appointments made, as there are loyal, distinguished, qualified and experienced persons in the Osoba Political Family that can contribute immensely to the actualisation of the upliftment of Ogun State to greater heights. “Can we conveniently say that the power manipulators around Governor Dapo Abiodun perceive Osoba Political Family as an opposition or threat to their conservative style of doing things? “We want to urge the Governor to live up to his words and personally do the needful to address the imbalance in the appointments now and appointments to be made later as we can boldly say that its not only the members of the group that presently dominates the ongoing appointments that worked for the success of the party at the poll but our Leader, Chief Olusegun Osoba, CON and all his followers worked assiduously and provided the leverage for the emergence of the mandate which we all enjoy through the victory of the party at the polls. “It is important for Prince Dapo Abiodun to remember that sweat and blood shed by the members of this Political Family in order to serve the State should not be forgotten as God Almighty who used these people to actualise your dream and aspirations is on the throne observing all our deeds. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom.”