Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed at the weekend emphasised the promotion of cultural festival. The two of them spoke at this year’s Ijakadi Festival held in Offa, Offa Local Government Area of the state.
Mohammed, who was represented by the state Director of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Segun Adeyemi, said: “Promotion of culture will attract investors to the county from across the globe.” Governor AbdulRazaq restated his administration’s commitment to grow culture and tourism in the state.
He acknowledged the self-driven development initiatives and resilience of the Offa people and how their support in the run-up to the election had been very decisive in Kwara’s political struggle. He said: “The Ijakadi Offa Festival typifies your resilience and ingenuity as a people and this has continued to make you critical stakeholders in the socio-economic and political space of Kwara State. I urge you to never relent in this regard because healthy competition — devoid of destructive jealousy — is key to development. “The 2020 budget contains provisions to promote our cultural heritage as Kwarans as well as project our festivals to the world as part of our efforts at making tourism a major revenue earner for the state.” “Going forward, this administration will promote qualitative and inclusive education, enterprise, and sustainable development with all seriousness. The 2020 budget has pointed in that direction and your own son is at the centre of our developmental initiatives as the commissioner for enterprise. The Olofa of Offa, Oba Mohammed Muftau Gbadamosi, on the occasion bestowed on the governor a chieftaincy title of Soludero of Offa Land. The monarch said AbdulRazaq had made history as the first governor to attend the event since it began eight years ago and gave him the traditional title (roughly the comforter of Offa Land) because his attendance shows his love for culture and community development.