By Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  Bayelsa State Governor-elect David Lyon, has raised the alarm over alleged last-minute transactions by key figures of the outgoing government to compound the financial woes of the state ahead of the February 14, 2020 handover. Lyon in a statement by his Acting Media Adviser, Chief Gift Ebiki,  advised banks and other financial institutions to desist from issuing  loans, overdrafts and other forms of credit facilities to Governor Seriake Dickson and key figures of the administration. He said such credit facilities aimed at crippling the financial base of the state to make things difficult for the incoming All Progressives Congress (APC) government and should not be extended to unverified projects being carried out by the Dickson administration. Lyon called on the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to beam their searchlights on the activities of the outgoing government to forestall corrupt practices and looting of state treasury. Read Also: The governor-elect urged the managing directors of 22 banks to stop such further transactions in the collective interests of the people of Bayelsa. He urged the financial institutions to exercise caution in the interest of the people.  The directors of financial institutions  named in the statement are those of Access Bank Plc, Citibank Nigeria Limited, Diamond Bank Plc, Ecobank Nigeria Plc, Fidelity Bank Plc, First Bank Nigeria Plc, First City Monument Bank Plc, GTBank Plc, Keystone Bank and Polaris Bank. Others are Providus, Stanbic IBTC Bank Limited, Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited, Sterling Bank Plc, Sun Trust Bank Nigeria Limited, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc, Unity Bank Plc, Wema Bank Plc and Zenith Bank Plc. The statement reads: “These institutions are warned that such applications and requests hurriedly made as the curtain drops on this administration should be dishonoured in line with sound internal control and governance principles. “This warning comes as the transition arrangements are showing desperate steps being taken by top officers and key figures of the outgoing administration to compound Bayelsa’s already worrisome debt profile.” 