 The report that 38 percent of Nigerians are illiterates, explains the high rate of crime in our society. The figure was given recently, by the Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, while asking for support to a bill he sponsored, seeking to make basic education a fundamental right. If the speaker is interested in making history, instead of a piecemeal restoration of the dignity of fellow Nigerians, he should sponsor a bill to repeal section 6(6)(c) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). While the 1999 constitution is not autochthonous, its provisions on fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy, in chapter II, and that on fundamental rights in chapter IV, where framed in tandem with the Universal Declaration of Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights, and similar international fundaments on which our claim to common humanity is based. So, if chapter II of the constitution is restored as justiciable right, it would restore dignity to Nigerians. It is unfair that after the far-reaching provisions of chapter II were made, persons of vagrant mind in the constitution making process, inserted the contradictory section 6(6)(c), which took away what the constitution gave in that far-reaching chapter. Although our present elite has not exhibited such potentials, they could learn from the words of the Singaporean avatar, Lee Kuan Yew, who took his country by the bootstraps and dragged it into modernity. In his book, From Third World to First, he postulated: “The other valuable asset we have was our people – hardworking, thrifty, eager to learn. Although divided into several races, I believed a fair and even handed policy would get them to live peacefully together, especially if such hardships as unemployment were shared equally and not carried mainly by the minority groups. It was crucial to keep united Singapore’s multi-lingual, multicultural, multi-religious society, and make it rugged and dynamic enough to compete in modern markets.” Of course the road to that Eldorado is strewn with enormous hard work, and there are no signs that the present elite has such contemplation in mind. But such an egalitarian society is the vision of chapter II of the constitution, and the National Assembly instead of quarrelling over the so-called constituency projects, which is akin to a fractional part of the vision, should restore chapter II to parity with chapter IV, as a wholesome effort to start the difficult process of nation building. Chapter II starts with the fundamental obligation of government. In section 13, it provides: “It shall be the duty and responsibility of all organs of government, and of all authorities and persons, exercising legislative, executive or judicial powers, to conform to, observe and apply the provisions of this chapter of this constitution.” It then went on in section 14(2)(b) to state that: “It is hereby accordingly declared that – the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government….” The chapter listed lofty objectives on political, economic, social, educational, environmental, cultural, and ethical principles of a modern state. It also listed the national objectives on foreign policy, mass media and duties of the citizens. On educational objectives, section 18(1) provides succinctly: “Government shall direct its policy towards ensuring that there are equal and adequate educational opportunities at all levels.” The sub-section 3 provides: “Government shall strive to eradicate illiteracy and to this end government shall as and when practicable provide – free, compulsory and universal primary education; free university education, and free adult literacy programme.” If the above provision and others become obligatory, there would be less resources to steal, and even lesser for the criminal self-aggrandizement our governing elite engage in, by way of unconstitutional emoluments. The savings from this would ensure the implementation of section 16(2)(d) which provides: “The state shall direct its policy towards ensuring – that suitable and adequate shelter, suitable and adequate food, reasonable national minimum wage, old age care and pensions, and unemployment, sick benefits and welfare of the disabled are provided for all citizens.” Clearly making chapter II justiciable would promote the greatest good for the greatest number, for Nigerians. And so, the Speaker and his colleagues should concentrate their efforts on deleting section 6(6)(c) which is anti-democratic and duplicitous. The obnoxious section provides: “The judicial powers vested in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section – shall not, except as otherwise provided by this constitution, extend to any issue or question as to whether any act or omission by any authority or person or as to whether any law or any judicial decision is in conformity with the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy set out in chapter II of this constitution.”  I urge the Speaker and his colleagues in the National Assembly to make history, by excising that section from the constitution. So that Nigerians can compel governments at all levels to spend the nation’s resources for the benefit of the citizens. A situation where the per capita budget for education is abysmally low can then be challenged in the courts by aggrieved persons, based on the legal maxim of ubi jus ibi remedium. Because where there is a right, the courts will grant a remedy. As Lord Holt CJ, said in Ashby vs. White: “If the plaintiff has a right he must of necessity have the means to vindicate it, and a remedy, if he is injured in the exercise of it, and indeed it is a vain thing to imagine a right without a remedy, for want of right and remedy are reciprocal.” The citizens would also be entitled to challenge the bogus expenditure on the maintenance of government officials, including the unconscionable emoluments of members of the National Assembly. Until the courts are imbued with the power to adjudicate on the socio-economic rights of Nigerians, some of the rights provided in chapter IV of the constitution would amount to mere platitudes. How can citizens truly exercise their fundamental right to life, when they lack the basic necessities of food, clothing and shelter? Since our legislators are selfish, the courts should engage in judicial activism, and infer the inclusion of socio-economic rights as integral to the fundamental rights guaranteed by the constitution. As succinctly expounded by Justice P. N. Bhagwatt, former Chief Justice of India and Convenor of the Judicial Colloquium in Bangalore: “The right to life is not confirmed merely to physical existence but it includes also the right to live with basic human dignity – with the basic necessities of life such as food, health, education, shelter etc….” Dear Reader, this column wishes you a merry Christmas and Happy New Year, as yours sincerely proceeds on a Christmas break.