 THE governorship candidate of Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 2019 Lagos State Governorship election, Chief Owolabi Salis on Sunday reiterated that the last governorship election was marked by  irregularities and chief among them is doctoring the election results to reflect zero votes for his party at Ifako-Ijaiye local government. Salis said Ifako-Ijaiye is an area where AD has numerous strong party loyalists and he has myriads of supporters there. He accused the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) of committing a blatant error by allotting him with zero votes. “To further accentuate the need for the total cancelation of the election, the votes recorded for AD in the entire Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government in the Final Results on form EC8B and EC8C is zero, notwithstanding after careful study of the election materials we discovered that votes were recorded in form EC8A in 79 polling units as a total of 136 votes. If these irregularities can be happening in Ifako-Ijaiye, God knows how many doctoring has occurred to reduce my votes,” Salis said. He stated that he called for the inspection of the election materials “discovered that many Presiding Officers testified that voter’s register was not used in accreditation during the election. Other polling agents who reported complained also that voter’s Registers were not used in accreditation for the said election. The manuals, guidelines and regulations made by the electoral body to aid of smooth conduct of the election are to be observed by both Adhoc and permanent staff of the INEC for the election to be said to be free and fair election  and this was not so. “Voters register and card readers were not used in some of the polling units and this allowed for multiple and illegal votings, this was one of the strategies used to overblow scores. So the governorship election that took place on March 9 was unfair to AD and the good people of Lagos who believed in the tenets of free and fair election. “We will not stop in our bid to seek justice for Lagosians and liberate them. We are coming to take what rightfully belong to us and Sanwo-Olu should be prepared to vacate that seat because it was never rightfully his.” Salis said he has a genuine voter’s card verified by INEC, and he abided by all the rules and regulations of the electoral law. 