THE 2019 edition of Ariya Eko Musical Festival will hold on Sunday, December 15, 2019. The event which will feature performances by legends like Juju music legend Ebenezer Obey, Flutist Tee Mac Iseli and Afrojuju music creator, Sir Shina Peters  takes place at City Hall, Lagos. Other artistes billed to perform include Sir Victor Uwaifo, Yinka Davies, Jimi Solanke, Abass Akande Obesere, Abideen Yusuf Olatunji, female talking drummer, Ara, Ibitayo Jeje, Young Tunde Nightingale, Halimat Ayinla Omowura, Buga, Ibitayo Jeje, Segun Blessing, Omileyan, Vector, Shola Vibrator, Helen Ibe, Dollarz, Wasiu Oseni Ejire, Eko Brass Band and others. This was disclosed at a recent briefing attended by the founder of Evergreen Music, Femi Osho, Ebenezer Obey, Tee Mac Iseli, Ara and other artistes performing at the event. And in recognition of his contribution to music, Ebenezer Obey will be inducted into the Ariya Eko Music Festival Hall of Fame. Obey became a professional musician in 1957 and he has recorded about 660 songs and performed across the world. A visiting lecturer at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Obey also founded a music school in Ogun State. “I feel honoured, I’m happy to be inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Ariya Eko”, said Obey, in appreciation of the honour. “Every honour has been well-received and appreciated. I thank God, I thank Evergreen Music and I thank Lagos State government, especially His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu for partnering with Evergreen Music.” He said: “The way I see Ariya Eko is to bring us to remember what Lagos stands for. Lagos is the home of everybody because of the hospitality and accommodating love. We accommodate others from everywhere.” Tee Mac said he is going to bring his full 12-piece band to play at the event. “I’m looking forward to seeing you all there,” he said, “because I’m going to give you the same super-show as I would do in China or New York or wherever.” The managing director of Evergreen Music, Ms Bimbo Esho, said: “The reason why we have put this together is to start looking inwards. There’s a lot of music out there today and it doesn’t stand the test of time. You can see somebody like Chief Commander (Ebenezer Obey). He has the highest song recordings in Africa. It’s not just any song – evergreen songs. I think that’s something the younger generation should start thinking about. ” The event is in partnership with the Lagos State government. Ariya Eko Music Festival was founded by Evergreen Music to appreciate classic music that Lagos has become synonymous with. Since the mid 1900s, Lagos has attracted music greats like Tunde Nightingale, Tunde King, Ayinla Bakare, Bobby Benson, Victor Olaiya, Chris Ajilo, Eddie Okonta and others.