Factional leader of the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Comrade Uchenna Madu, has denied ever begging Chief Ralph Uwazuruike for forgiveness, describing his allegations as an attempt to seek relevance. Uwazuruike had on Sunday said that a new Biafra would have been actualized if the project had not been derailed by Madu and the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu and other pro-Biafra groups. Uwazuruike also said that Madu and the IPOB leader have been sending emissaries to beg him for forgiveness over their role in derailing the Biafran project. But, reacting to the comments by Uwazuruike, Madu denied ever calling or having any indirect or physical meeting with Uwazuruike, saying that the BIM-MASSOB founder was only using the report to seek for relevance having squandered the goodwill of the people through falsehood, cunning and deceit. Madu, whose statement was issued by the MASSOB national director of information, Comrade Edeson Samuel, described Uwazuruike as a chieftain of cunning and deceit, whose falsehood and deceit could no longer sustain the Biafra struggle. He explained that though, a pro-Biafra activist, Colman Emejuru had initiated a peace move to unite all the pro-Biafra groups, including Nnamdi Kanu, Uwazuruike and himself in Enugu penultimate week for the sole purpose of marching forces together in order to enable a quicker restoration of Biafra. Madu said however, that the meeting could not hold because of Uwazuruike’s celebration of Ojukwu’s memorial service in Owerri. He said he was surprised to read Uwazuruike claiming that he and the others were begging him for forgiveness. The release reads in part, “Our leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu has never called, texted nor chatted with Ralph Uwazuruike directly or indirectly since 2014, MASSOB separated from him. “MASSOB received the headline news of The Nation newspaper that our leader is begging or appealing for forgiveness from Ralph Uwazuruike with shock. “The executive officials of MASSOB under the leadership of Comrade Uchenna Madu are aware that Colman Emejuru (Ikemba Ndigbo), as a selfless pro-Biafra activist, called our leader for a solidarity meeting which was scheduled in Enugu last two weeks ago. His primary message to our leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu and his executive officials is that he personally initiated a peace and harmonisation move to unite Ralph Uwazuruike, Nnamdi Kanu and Uchenna Madu for the sole purpose of marching forces together in order to enable a quicker restoration of Biafra. “He as well told us that Ralph Uwazuruike is aware of his meeting with us and that he, Uwazuruike is equally happy for the peace and harmonisation meeting. The peace and harmonisation meeting was paused after Ralph Uwazuruike’s Ojukwu memorial lecture. The meeting has not reopened yet. “Uwazuruike, as everyone knows, is a chieftain of cunning and deceit. How can we go back and start begging to stay in Okwe working with Ralph Uwazuruike after MASSOB chased him out of his father’s compound? For four years, Uwazuruike was in exile, he could not return to Okwe, his home village even during the burial of his step father. “MASSOB under the leadership of Comrade Uchenna Madu left Okwe on our personal decision after we publicly forgave Ralph Uwazuruike and handed his committed atrocities to ancestors of Igbo land”. Madu challenged Uwazuruike to provide evidences of any conversation between them if he he knew he was not lying, saying, “MASSOB still have the electronic evidences of all our interactions with Coleman Emejuru”