Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has commended Senator Samuel Anyanwu for his political sportsmanship despite the political challenges he faced in 2019. Speaking during a Thanksgiving Service in honour of Samuel Nnaemeka Anyanwu , the immediate past Senator who represented Imo East Senatorial District in the 8th Assembly Senate at Saint Columbus Catholic Parish, Amaimo in Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State on Sunday, Governor Wike said that
Senator Anyanwu has had a successful political career. He noted that the despite eventually losing the PDP ticket to incumbent Governor Emeka Ihedioha, Senator Samuel Anyanwu has continued to remain faithful to the PDP. “Senator Sam Anyanwu is a good politician. Despite losing the party’s Governorship ticket, he has remained faithful to the party”, he said. Governor Wike noted his commitment to always thank God for his mercies, emphasising that but for God he would not have occupied the position of Governor. He stated that his administration has always partnered the church in Rivers State, hence will also assist the community church to expand the work of God. Governor Wike recalled how he supported the Anglican Church in Imo State during their Synod, emphasising that as a government, his administration will always be committed to supporting the gospel.  Also speaking, Former Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki said Senator Samuel Anyanwu is a man of distinguished character, who always stood for the truth. ” It is hard to speak the truth, but Sam is a man who always stand firm and speaks the truth for his people. As Chairman of Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions, he always stood firm. I have no doubt that Sam has a bright future, I will always support him.” In his remarks, Senator Samuel Anyanwu lauded friends and well wishers for identifying with him.
He particularly thanked Governor Wike who he described as his friend and brother in Ikwerreland of Rivers State who believed in making people, noting that the Governor has made him proud by always standing by his side.
“Governor Wike has made me proud. Though I failed my bid for the Governorship of Imo State and am no more in the Senate, but the Governor is still by my side.” The Thanksgiving Service attracted Former and Serving Federal Lawmakers.