By Ajayi Oluwatayo Mary  This is a wakeup call for every Nigerian youth around the world to get working! The land of our fathers is calling us to take possession; yet we sit back and do nothing while the elderly who once took power from us continue to abuse it. Its unfortunate that Nigeria of today has an army of youths majority of who are lazy. Interestingly, most of the elderly Nigerians holding various political appointments today were known to be very hardworking during their youthful days. All the youth are interested in are gambling, internet fraud, and other easy ways to cut corners. To further give spine to my argument, imagine some of our nationalists that fought for the country’s independence; the likes of Herbert Macaulay, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Sir Ahmadu Bello and Chief Anthony Enahoro. Macaulay, we will all recall, was the grandson of Bishop Ajayi Crowther and he trained as an engineer. Chief Awolowo was born on March 6, 1909- and died on May 9, 1987. A native of Ikenne in Ogun State of Southwestern Nigeria, Awolowo was a nationalist and statesman who played a key role in Nigeria’s independence movement, the First and Second Republics and the Civil War. As a young man he was an active journalist, editing various publications. He is considered the founder of Nigerian nationalism as the movement was under him in the 1920s. He pioneered the philosophy that people across different backgrounds living in the then British Colony needed to come together as one. To sum it all up, these aforementioned heroes achieved greatness while they were youths. Also at the time, agriculture used to be the mainstay of our economy. But we jettisoned that at the discovery of oil popularly known as the Black Gold. Today, hunger again bestrides the land, reinforcing the urgency by the youth to return to the farm.  Personally, I believe issues emanating from our politics can be solved by the youth. As youths, we have the ability to think fast in tackling problems. Considering our overwhelming population, we can all team up to challenge the status quo. We have the power to eradicate injustice and corruption. All we need is harmony. Our forefathers fought for the liberation of Nigeria. Some of them paid the supreme price with their lives. They denied themselves food, shelter and other luxuries of life. Youths of today are not interested in industry and act of making sacrifice. A section of our National Anthem states thus: “To serve our fathers land With love and strength and faith…” Therefore, to serve with everything in us will make our country Nigeria great again. If Nigerian youths could channel same energy they deploy into various atrocities into creating innovations, leveraging on technologies and finding solutions to our socio-political gaps, Nigeria would no doubt be one of the best countries in the world. Ajayi Oluwatayo Mary is a 200-Level Mass communication undergraduate of Babcock University.