 CONTRARY to earlier reports in the newspapers that some suspected members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) on Friday attacked and beat-up the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, in Spain, a statement from his media office on Saturday said the attackers failed in their bid to beat-up the former Governor of Rivers State. A statement dated December 7, 2019 and entitled, ‘Lies! IPOB did not ‘beat’ Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi,” read in part, “We read with utter disgust and disdain the sickening propagandist lies credited to one Emma Powerful, who claims to be the spokesman of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), that IPOB members in Madrid, Spain “beat” (physically assaulted) the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. That is not true. “We must clarify that in the incident of the attack yesterday on the Minister in Madrid, where Amaechi was part of the official Nigerian government delegation to the United Nations (UN) Climate Change Conference (COP25), IPOB members did not “beat”, physically assault or cause any bodily harm to the honourable minister. “As they charged towards and at the minister during the attack, it was apparent that their plan was to “beat” (quoting Emma Powerful) him, hurt him, cause bodily harm or even do worse! But their violent evil plot failed woefully due to the dexterity of Amaechi to resist them, protect and defend himself, and the prompt intervention of the Spanish Police who repelled the motley crowd of misguided attackers. Even the video circulated online by the attackers confirmed this much. Everyone could clearly hear one of them shouting, “We didn’t get him…” expressing his frustrations of their inability to get and “beat” the Minister.” On behalf of the minister, his aides commended the Spanish Police in Madrid for their timely intervention to protect Amaechi and their investigation of the attack and attempt on the life of the honourable minister in Spanish territory. “The honourable Minister of Transportation is immensely grateful to all for the outpour of love, support and prayers. He acknowledges God’s hand in the foiling of the attack and reassures all and sundry that he’s well, unhurt and okay; and will continue to dedicate himself in service to God, Nigeria and humanity,” the statement said. Meanwhile, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the South-South zone, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has stated that the evil thought and wish on the Transportation Minister will never come to pass. He condemned the attack, describing it as an act of ingratitude by enemies of Nigeria against one of the shining lights of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He said: “Amaechi, whose record-breaking activities in the Ministry of Transportation have become a positive reference point for the people assessing the Buhari’s administration, both internationally and locally, does not deserve to be attacked and it is a violent violation of everything good about Nigeria’s march to development,”. According to him,”The fact remains that Amaechi has done all within his powers to prove that if we are committed, we can have the Nigeria of our dream. His love for a better Nigeria, no doubt, is infectious and instead of being attacked, Nigerians should encourage and motivate him and other leaders that have devoted themselves to build a better country for us all. “I wish to encourage Amaechi to remain committed and he should take the attack in Spain as part of the sacrifices needed to liberate the country from the shackles of underdevelopment, occasioned by massive corruption. Amaechi should not be dismayed.