Over 1,000 residents of Ajegunle in Ijora Badia, a Lagos slum community on Tuesday benefitted from free medical outreach organised by the Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC). The outreach which was part of the Nigerian Navy’s (NN) end of year activities, targeted indigent persons of all age groups, including children from two-years and above who were de-wormed by naval health  specialists. The Nation reports that persons aged 30 years and above, had their blood pressure and blood sugar checked. There were general consultations, health talks, eye screening and treatment, diagnoses for various ailments as well as distribution of insecticide treated mosquito nets to pregnant women. Launching the outreach at Ladejobi area of Ajegunle, the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) NAVTRAC Rear Admiral Stanfford Enoch said the exercise was to assure the people of the service’s love and care for them. Enoch who was represented by the command’s Chief Staff Officer (CSO) Rear Admiral Idowu Yusuf, appealed to the residents to keep their environment clean and abide by the instructions they were given during the lecture. He said the command chose Ajegunle for the outreach because it was a community close to the base and NN personnel usually passed through to and fro work. Aside using the exercise to improve on civil-military relations, Enoch said the rhapsody which was sanctioned by the Naval headquarters, was primarily to extend warmth to the beneficiaries in the spirit of Christmas. He said: “This medical rhapsody is one of the events marking the end of year activities. It is also a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) from the NN and a show of love, appreciation especially during this period. Ijora is out neighborly community in Lagos State and so, the command deemed it fit to carry out the exercise here.” Reminding them that security was a collective responsibility, Enoch appealed to them to always avail security operatives useful information to checkmate crimes. “As you can see, we have a lot of people here. We have asked them to come at separate times so this place can contain them. Ijora Badia community is very dear to us. Aside being close to the base, we pass here often and we felt one of the ways to bring the people closer is to organise such programmes. “This will enable them have access to us and that way, they can volunteer useful information that will help us tackle insecurity. If we have good relationship with them, I belief the security of lives and properties will be a lot easier here. “We are doing this because the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS) has given the approval for all commands to do so, interact freely with the people,” he said. Appreciating the navy for the gesture, the Baale of the community Chief Ganiu Bankola said it would go a long way in assisting the residents, especially those who cannot afford healthcare.