 The member representing Oluyole Constituency in the House of Representatives, Tolulope Akande-Sadipe, has offered N25 million scholarship to her students in tertiary schools as part of fulfilment of her campaign promises. The lawmaker, who is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), presented cheques to the 25 beneficiaries of the first phase of the programme. The lawmaker, who was a Special Adviser on Projects to former Governor Abiola Ajimobi, said each of the beneficiaries would get N100,000 paid directly into the account of their institutions to cover their tuition fees and incidental expenses. According to her, the beneficiaries will enjoy the scholarship from 2019 to 2023. Each year, a new set of beneficiaries will be added to those currently on board until the N25 million set aside for the scheme is exhausted. Akande-Sadipe said: “The reason I believe so passionately in helping provide opportunity such as this is because education has the potential for transforming our nation, thereby creating progress and growth. “Every citizen is a pillar of the nation and every a nation rests on billions of such pillars. The more educated the pillars are, the stronger the nation’s foundation would be. “This is a great day for Oluyole Federal Constituency. In the midst of these scholars, I see tomorrow’s medical professionals, scientists, law enforcement officers, business executives, writers, lawyers. I hope a few of you someday will become legislators like me or even governor of Oyo State. Trust me, I will vote for you.” A parent, Mr William Olufemi, commended the lawmaker for the gesture. He said it was capable of lifting the financial burden of many parents, who are struggling to sponsor their children in school. He is father to Esther, a 100 Level student of the Department of Chemical Engineering, Obafemi  Awolowo University, Ile Ife. Other beneficiaries and party leaders, who attended the ceremony, also commended Akande-Sadipe for the initiative, describing it as a huge help for both parents and their wards. 