Our Reporter  The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said all backlog owed to pensioners in the state will be cleared. He spoke in Ikeja Lagos State, during the Lagos Pensioners Reunion, organized by the Civil Service Pensions Office, Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions. Represented by the Commissioner, Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs Ajibola Ponnle, Samwo-Olu, said that the administration has the welfare of both current and retired staffs as its priority. “Within the first 200 days of this administration, we had the plan and approval of 13.75 Billion made to add to the redemption bond shuffle for staff and retired permanent secretaries and we increased the redemption bond funding rate from 5 per cent of total emolument of staff to 10 per cent of the emolument.” This, he said is to ensure that by the end of the first term of the administration, it would have cleared the entire backlog owed to pensioners. “We are currently paying year 2017 redemption bond arrears to pensioners and we are doing this at an increased rate. We have also increased the government’s contributory pension rate from 7.5 to 10 per cent contribution. We can boost that we are a pace setter among other states in the country.”  Sanwo-Olu assured of the continuous welfare of all pensioners in the state, noting that the event is a manifestation of the administration promises of ensuring that every citizen irrespective of age is not left behind during policy consideration, while also ensuring that senior citizens are provided all the benefits a Lagos State citizen should get. He noted that plans are at an advanced stage to start the initiative in free health insurance and free transport in the state by 2020. “We are still looking at it but we hope it will be effectively implemented. We will have free transportation for all those that have served the state and are above 60 years with the various means of transportation owned by Lagos state government. We are also looking at health insurance for our pensioners so that they can benefit from the various hospitals run by Lagos State.” He said the gathering is to appreciate, celebrate and recognize our pensioners in the state. “The pensioners Day 2019 was set aside by the United Nations to celebrate appreciate and acknowledge the immeasurable contribution of our senior citizens to the development of the society,” he said. Chairman Lagos State Council of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), Rev Olufemi Johnson, thanked the state government for the timely and consistent payment of their monthly pensions, adding that the government’s welfare and health enlightenment programs for pensioners in the state were appreciated. He however noted that they are still faced with challenges which he pleaded the state government intervention. “Payment of 142 per cent pension arrears; implementation and payment of 6 per cent and 15 per cent pension increase; 33 per cent pension increase implementation; harmonisation of pension; office accommodation and vehicle; payment of the outstanding 25 per cent rent allowance; contributory pension scheme; senior citizen status and merit awards, among others.” He assured all public service pensioners in the state that the Union will do everything possible to see that all the pains of its members as regards their retirement entitlements are mitigated. Chairperson, Lagos State Chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Funmi Sessi, said the gathering was to celebrate pensioners who have laboured and are retired but not tired “We identify with you and will do all to make your retirement enjoyable and pleasurable, because you cannot use your youthful life to serve and not enjoy at your old age. We will ensure the entitlement of retirees will be given as at when due and we urge government to become more responsive to the plight of pensioners through prompt payment of pensions,” she said.