Ernest Nwokolo Reports  Twenty – three years old Adeeko Owolabi has given insight into how the supposedly missing final year female student of the Lagos State University, Ojo, Miss Favour Daley-Oladele,22, was lured to a far away church in Osun State. Owolabi, allegedly, lured her to a white garment church in Ikoyi – Ile, Osun, where he brutally murdered the girl while she was sleep by using pestle to crush her head and thereafter, her organs were harvested for ‘get – rich – quick’ money making concoction. Owolabi and Favour until her betrayal and gruesome killing, were lovers and she was said to be looking forward to seeing the two of them becoming husband and wife in future, but unknown to her that Owolabi harbours a different and sinister agenda. He told the Police detectives in Ogun State that he elected to use the girl friend, Favour, for money ritual ostensibly to lift his family out of gripping poverty, explaining that things haven’t been rosy anymore with them. He was allegedly assisted in the crime by a self – acclaimed pastor of the white garment church in Ikoyi – Ile, Osun, Segun Philip, who removed the heart of the girl and fed Owolabi and his mother with the concoction prepared with Favour’s heart. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who made this known in a release on Sunday said detectives from Mowe Division of the Ogun State Police Command, arrested the Owolabi, his mother and Pastor Philip. Abimbola stated: “A self acclaimed pastor of a white garment church, Segun Philip, 42, was arrested together with a 23years old boy Adeeko Owolabi over the killing of a final year Theater Art student of Lagos State University Favour Daley-Oladele. “The deceased was reported to have left home to an unknown destination since on the 8th of December 2019 and has not been seen since then, hence she was reported missing by her parents at Mowe Police Station. “The DPO Mowe division, Marvis Jayeola detailed his crack detectives to unravel the mystery behind the sudden disappearance of the 22 years old girl. The detectives went into full scale technical and forensic investigation of the case and their efforts paid off when the movement of the deceased was traced to a white garment church in far away Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State being pastored by one Segun Philip.  “On getting to the church, the self acclaimed pastor was promptly arrested but he was quick to inform the detectives that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, who was still within the vicinity of the church. The said boyfriend was traced and apprehended immediately. “He confessed to the police that the deceased was his girlfriend and that he lured her to Ikoyi-Ile where he has perfected plans with the so-called pastor Segun Philip to use her for money making ritual. “He stated further that while the girl was sleeping, the pastor gave him a pestle with which he used to smashed the head of the girl and the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, ripped open her chest and removed her heart which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat. “When asked what pushed him to such devilish act, Owolabi explained that he decided to go into money ritual because things are not going well with his parents economically most especially his mother who used to be the breadwinner of the family; and when he sought for assistance from the pastor, he was asked to bring a human being for that purpose and the available person at that time was his girlfriend. “The Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson has directed that the suspects be transferred to the Homicide Section of the State criminal investigation and intelligence department for proper investigation. The CP who described the gruesome murder of the deceased as high degree of wickedness, has vowed to ensure that all the suspects face the full wrath of the law.”