By Mustapha Ambali  Ondo State Governor and Visitor to the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has offered the best graduating student of the university, Ajakaiye Daniel Oluwatobi, immediate employment. Speaking at the university’s convocation, Akeredolu admonished the best graduating student, who had a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.76 in Accounting, to always remember to give back to his alma mater and the society. “Don’t go with your knowledge. Come back into the university system because I have offered you a job as a graduate assistant.  Do your Masters and others; remain here,” he said. He added that convocation was an opportunity to confer award and academic prizes on worthy graduates and to release into the society another set of trained manpower.  “Those of you who are graduating today, go and do better than your predecessors because it is a challenge to everyone and we will continue to support not only this institution but all institutions we have in Ondo State,” he said. He, however, urged the university to seek ways to get sustainable funding. “We should get to a stage where universities can sustain themselves.  It is possible. They can venture into agriculture; and if you have college of medicine, you can run teaching hospital that you can make money from and there are many things you can do,” he said. He said whoever would succeed the Vice Chancellor, Prof.  Amos Ajibefun, whose tenure ends early next year, should promote research to sustain the university. He praised Ajibefun for his good work in the University so far. Commending the University for awarding Mr Segun Olugboyegun an honorary doctor of business administration degree, Akeredolu said he had known the recipient to be a renowned philanthropist. “He is a philanthropist and as he has promised to put 30 students on his scholarship programme in the university every year. He will surely do that,” the Governor said. Akeredolu inaugurated some projects on campus, one of which was the Senate building which was named after Dr Olusegun Mimiko, his predecessor.