Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has said the people of Nigeria will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the early passage of the 2020 Appropriation Bill. The ruling party, in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, explained that the early passage of the bill will allow for the full implementation of many of the economic, infrastructural and social investment programmes contained in the budget. The party, however, commended both President Muhammadu Buhari, for showing leadership by ensuring the prompt submission of the budget, and the two chambers of the National Assembly for placing national interest above any other consideration. According to the party, the early passage of the budget was a result of the newly found synergy between the executive and the legislature, adding that the sacrifice enforced on the part of the executive, when the President ordered the suspension of all foreign trips by ministers and heads of federal agencies, as well as the choice of the current National Assembly to chart a more friendly path with executive, all culminated in the early successful passage of the budget. “The Party commends both chambers of the National Assembly – Senate and House of Representatives, for putting National Interest before any other interest – a clean departure from the 8th National Assembly which used filibustering, political manipulation and other devious practices in their failed attempt to sabotage the APC government. “We also commend President Muhammadu Buhari for showing leadership in the prompt submission of the 2020 budget proposals and his clear directive to heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies to suspend international travels to defend their respective budgets and provide the required cooperation to the National Assembly in order to ensure timely passage of the 2020 budget. “Nigerians will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the early budget passage as it will guarantee full implementation of many of the economic, infrastructural, social investments and other developmental programmes contained in the budget and which will directly and positively impact on the people. “Again, the early budget passage will allow for proper and better planning for both the government and the private sector. The entire financial architecture of our country would benefit from this. This includes project financing, contract execution timeline, project implementation and performance monitoring. It will make public procurement predictable, business climate stable, and give confidence to investors. “The Party urges the executive and legislature to take full advantage of this new dawn of cordial relations. This will ultimately translate to better governance for the benefit of Nigerians,” the statement said.