 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has assured the business community that the government will improve infrastructure communities around industrial zones. He said amenities that would enhance business growth would be put in place. Sanwo-Olu spoke yesterday at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja during a visit by Switzerland Ambassador George Steiner and board members of the Swiss-Nigeria Business Council. He said his government would build up the relationship between the state and Swiss companies, adding that he hoped to make the state a last destination for Swiss businesses. The governor said: “I believe your trip will further reinforce and signpost to other companies that we are ready and we can collaborate for good. One of the things we are doing is to make the business environment in Lagos accessible. “Something we’re continuously talking about is that we can make doing business here a lot better.
“We are building transportation, building infrastructure and reinforcing our security agencies to ensure Lagos is secure for all of us. “We want to reassure you that our administration looks forward to opportunities that will foster our relationship with Swiss companies. We want to see how we can grow the number of Swiss companies in Lagos and make the state a destination of choice for them. Lagos is ready for Switzerland.” Steiner thanked Sanwo-Olu for committing time and effort to make the Lagos business environment firm and attractive to foreign and local business owners. He emphasised on the importance of Lagos market to Switzerland, stressing that “we are making efforts to expand our presence for the benefit of Lagosians.” Steiner said: “I believe we have an excellent relationship with this country, Lagos, most of all. We will like to create wealth for the benefit of Swiss companies and of course, the benefit of a greater Lagos. Lagos especially is an important market for us. “In view of strengthening our presence, we set up a Swiss-Nigeria Business Council in 2017. My visit to Mr. Governor is a strong sign to determine to do more for Swiss companies and most importantly, Lagos.”
Also present during the visit were Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, Consul-General of Switzerland and some members of the Executive Council of Lagos State.