The form of government a country elects to practise dictates citizens’ expectations. At the series of constitutional conferences where Nigeria’s founding fathers decided to throw off the colonial yoke, it was equally decided that democracy shall be the guiding framework. This informed the unrelenting campaign forcing out military dictators whenever they seized the reins of power. Since the inception of the Fourth Republic, Nigerians have prided themselves as living under a constitutional democracy from which all, the government as well as the governed, arms and institutions of governments, tiers of government, political parties and politicians derive their powers. It was, therefore, surprising that a civilian administration could decide, as the Buhari government did, to disregard public opinion and valid orders of courts of law as Colonel Sambo Dasuki, the erstwhile National Security Adviser (NSA), was kept in the Department of State Services (DSS) dungeon for four years. Courts’ rulings and orders that he be granted bail were consistently ignored, giving the impression that the President could overrule the judiciary. At different fora, both the President and his attorney-general rationalised this whimsical trampling on the rule of law as necessitated by security of state. Only when a state of emergency is declared could that be contemplated. Yet, for four years, the presidency, Federal Ministry of Justice  and DSS played deaf and dumb to the public outcry. Worse still, in August, Omoyele Sowore, publisher of Sahara Reporters and a presidential candidate in the February election, was picked up on the pretext that he called for a revolution in the country. The secret agents again swung into action gestapo style, locked him up in their facility before seeking court permission to deprive him of his freedom for 90 days. The court acceded that 45 days’ grace would be sufficient to allow the department tidy up its investigation. The DSS refused to obey several court orders that Sowore be released. The worst was when Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu finally decided to enforce her judgment. In the full public glare, while the court was still sitting, Sowore who had been grudgingly released the previous day was rearrested, badgered and molested. These are ominous signs that should be rejected and resisted. The victory thus recorded is at best the first phase. It is not yet Uhuru until officials of state are purged of the mentality that Nigeria could be ruled by an Emperor about 50 years after independence. We do not agree with a call for violent overthrow of an elected government as it would amount to forceful seizure or upturn of the People’s Will, but the judiciary should be allowed to freely perform its duty. Anything contrary to that is state terrorism, which is as distasteful and dangerous as the call for revolution, over which Sowore was charged. Another dangerous dimension was the attack on protesters who took to the streets in Abuja to protest Sowore’s rearrest. Counter-protesters for his incarceration were said to have sprung up from nowhere to violently disperse Sowore’s supporters. The police that were there in their numbers made no attempt to restrain the unruly counter-protesters. This is a throwback to the military regime tactics. It is unfortunate that at this point in our history; we were so close to being a pariah state again before the Federal Government took acton. One of the fallouts was the American decision to put Nigeria on the religious intolerance watch-list. Had Nigerians been united, had the Sowore case not come up at that point, it was unlikely that Nigeria could be grouped alongside failed states that predominate that list. Nigeria belongs to us all; not just the government. Under our law, an accused is presumed innocent until proven guilty and so adjudged by a competent court. Enough of state agents acting like gangsters. It’s also unacceptable that President Muhammadu Buhari would constantly feign ignorance of notorious facts. As President, he is not just the chief executive, but also the father of the nation. He is the only elected official with pan-Nigeria mandate. He should begin to act his office. A slide to dictatorship is a call for chaos. Nigeria is a signatory to protocols and pacts that bind us to the international system where regular peer review is the order. When it pleases the government, it goes cap in hand round countries of the Global South seeking all forms of support; at other times, it claims a non-existent independence in an inter-dependent world. This is a system where nothing is forgotten and pleading sovereignty that should be self-evident is an admission of weakness. The future belongs to us all; it cannot be left for a few to act against the tenets of the Constitution and constitutionalism. 