The Nigerian Navy at the weekend said its operations and activities had drastically reduced oil theft, pipeline vandalism and illegal refineries in the Niger Delta region. Speaking at the Nigerian Navy Biannual Medical Outreach in Oghara, Delta State, the Flag Officer Commanding, Nigeria Navy Logistics Command, Rear Admiral Uchenna Blessing Onyia, said the activities of the navy also led to tremendous improvements in waterway security. He said the logistics command provided logistic support for all the units in the region to ensure effective discharge of their functions . Describing his headquarters as a support command, Onyia said his command ensured adequate provisions of ships, boats and other vessels for waterway patrols. He said: “The logistics command is the support command. Our commanding headquarters duty is to provide logistics support to those units that are out there combating oil theft and piracy. We make sure that there are ships and boats available for their patrols. “There has been tremendous improvement in the security of our waters, especially within the Gulf of Guinea in both Delta, Rivers, Bayelsa and the whole South South, improvement of security and also the combat are against oil theft and illigal refineries. He said the medical outreach was one of the programmes of the navy designed to get close relationship with its host communities. “We try to bring them closer so that they can know how friendly the military can be especially the Navy. We try to provide this free medical facilities to show them we can contribute towards medical care within our host communities. “We are in a very cordial and warm relationship with the host communities. We have been having these outreaches. So, we have been relating well with the host communities”, he said. In his remarks, the Traditional Ruler of Ogharefe Kingdom, High Chief Frank Ededey, who represented His Royal Majesty, Ovie of Oghara, said people from the community were happy that the navy brought free health care to them. He said the community was having good relationship with the navy and appealed to the youths to continue being law-abiding. He said: “Something good has come into my community from the navy. We are appreciative and that is why you see people coming enthusiastically to partake in this free medical outreach. “Our relationship with the navy has been very perfect. We haven’t heard about any commotion between any of the Naval staff and our people. We are living very much in harmony because officers in this command have been relating very well with us. “Our youths have been relating very well with our Naval officers. They are not criminals. They’re very law-abiding and live well with them. In fact they contribute to protecting the properties because they know it belongs to the government.”