Students’ Union elections at the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta in Ogun State, held weekend was halted halfway by the management due to ‘security reasons’. Thereafter, the two major contenders for the office of union president and their supporters have been hurling insults at one another, while claiming to be victorious in the elections. OLASUNKANMI AKINLOTAN, who witnessed the elections, reports.  There have been accusations and counter accusations in the wake of the Students’ Union election of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta in Ogun State. The two major contenders for the office of the president – Omobolanle Owodunni aka Owodunni and Hameed Dolapo known as Dolly P, are pointing fingers at each other over the election which was put on hold by the management. Our CAMPUSLIFE correspondent gathered that the election started peacefully at the  Department of Computer Science last week Friday. However, midway into the election, the management ordered its stoppage, citing security reports. The development has, nonetheless, angered voters, many of whom felt that since they came out in their large numbers, the stoppage of the election was unjustified. Interestingly, many students are still at sea over the management’s action. While a section of the students believed the election was postponed, others felt it was cancelled. Nonetheless, the management had cleared the air on the rumour, saying the election was suspended and further action would be communicated in due course. Meanwhile, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), which also oversaw the exercise, insisted the election was hitch-free, and urged the management to announce the result within 48 hours. However, a reliable source within the management told CAMPUSLIFE that police reports on the election prompted the management to wield the big stick. “We were left with no other option than to suspend the election. The police and other security agents that we brought in to maintain peace at the election feared that with the state of things, they might be unable to guarantee security again. “For us, peace and life are more important because it is when we are alive that we can contest an election,” the source said. Our CAMPUSLIFE correspondent, who monitored the exercise, noted that, at some point, the election turned rowdy when a section of the students loyal to the outgoing President, Samson Omoniyi, believed to be rooting for Owodunni, became disgruntled, alleging that they weren’t allowed in to vote. The other camps were also seen making similar complaints as both parties engaged in a war of words. Earlier, Owodunni’s loyalists alleged of plans by the opposition to rig the election. Meanwhile, Dolapo’s loyalists also denied the allegation outright, saying their rival knew victory wouldn’t swing her way; hence, the protest, ostensibly to have the election thwarted. Students queued in large numbers to vote for the candidate of their choice. However, some students of the School of Business Management Studies, (SBMS) and others from the Department of Business Administration, claimed they were equally disenfranchised. Faruq Kushoro, who is one of Hameed’s supporters, said his candidate won the election with a landslide. He said: “The just concluded MAPOLY Students Union election was a very clear victory for Dolapo Hameed. Our agents who were monitoring the election in the computer room saw everything. “Even before the election, Dolapo is very popular in all other departments except SLT (Science Laboratory Technology). “At the election ground, all our supporters from the Department of Pharmaceutical Technology were disenfranchised. They were all shut out and denied voting on the election ground by some unscrupulous elements Another Hameed’s supporter, Ibrahim Adeniran, echoed Kushoro’s view. “Imagine the crowd shouting: ‘Dolly P’ even when Owodunni’s loyalists lifted her up. I believe the will of God has come to stay. My advice to the management is to announce the result,” Adeniran added. One of Owodunni’s supporters, Abimbola Olaoluwa, admitted there was rigging, going by the stampede during the exercise. “There was rigging at the election going by the level of commotion at the election ground. But, in all, Dolly is winning.” Although Hameed who is one of the contenders lamented that some of his supporters were disenfranchised, he nonetheless charged the management and the electoral committee to announce the results in the interest of peace. His words: “The suspension of the union election was orchestrated by some enemies of peace. Although many of my supporters complained to me bitterly that they were not allowed to vote as a member of staff was said to have been sending them back at the point of accreditation however, let me state it categorically that I won the election. As a result, I beg both the management and members of the SUELECO (Students’ Union electoral committee) to please announce the result of the election without any further delay’’. Similarly, the Ogun State Chairman of NANS, Comrade Bamgbose Tomiwa, said: “The leadership of NANS OGUN JCC hereby use this medium to commend all Mapites (MAPOLY students) for turning out in their large number to partake in the SUG election. The turn up by students was very encouraging, as this has really proved the participation of our students even in the general elections.  “The leadership of NANS having observed the electioneering process at MAPOLY hereby demand that the management of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic should allow the electoral chairman make pronouncement of the result of the election between now and the next 48 working hours. Nigerian students will not stand and watch our students being deprived of their constitutional right to vote and be voted for.” Meanwhile, Owodunni, in her reaction, alleged pockets of election fraud by her opponent. “The election was inconclusive,@ Owodunni argued. “It is true my loyalists agitated and their reason was understandable. Imagine many of them had arrived the election ground before 10 am kick-off time; yet as at about 3pm, most of them had not yet voted. ‘Some went into the computer room to vote only to discover that the system rejected them, saying they had voted earlier. The most painful part was that some of them went in there to vote but discovered that the names of both candidates had changed. “My name is Omobolanle Owodunni while my opponent is Hameed Dolapo. Even though my name did not change on the system, it appeared very tiny, while the system changed my opponent’s name to Hameed Owodolapo. Don’t forget it is the beginning of my name that bears ‘owo’; so many of my loyalists were confused as to which is which. “As a rule, students are not allowed to go into the computer room with their mobile sets, otherwise, they would have screenshot it. “Also my agents were not given access to what was going on in the Control Room. Efforts by my agents to ensure that the number of students that attended the voting exercise corresponded with the number of voters, were also rebuffed.” Further, Owodunni also accused the chairman of SUELECO of sell out, while equally picking holes in the effectiveness of the school ICT system deployed for the election. Efforts to speak with the Chairman of the Students Union Electoral Committee,  Victor Ireogbu  proved abortive as calls and text messages sent to his phone was neither picked nor returned. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the development. He said the senior officers at the election ground advised that the election be suspended. “Yes, due to the intelligent report at our disposal, the most senior of our officers on ground at the election venue had to advise that the election be suspended,”said Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police. In the same vein, the school management through its Head of Public Relations and Protocol, Mr Yemi Ajibola, confirmed the suspension of the election and added that the management will communicate her next move soon. “At a point, the election became tensed and due to intelligent reports, the election has to been suspended by the management of the institution but the next move will be communicated soon”.