By Osagie Otabor, Bénin  The Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN) has asked National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to support the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki for the development and advancement of the state. It said Edo people are very well pleased with and have reposed confidence in Obaseki. The Christian body urged Oshiomhole not to allow some few individuals soil the good name and legacy he has enshrined on the chronicles of achievers and builders of Edo land. Chairman of CAN In Edo State, Bishop Oyonude Kure, who spoke at a press briefing in Bénin City, urged Oshiomhole to put the APC machinery together for its unity in the interest of the peace of the state to ensure continuity of the administration of Obaseki. Kure disclosed that the Christian body met separately with Oshiomhole and Obaseki on October 31st and November 3rd respectively with a view to resolving the impasse between both men. Kure listed identified the issues between Obaseki and Oshiomhole to include opening of Edo Specialist hospital, constitution of dissolved Boards and Parastatal, politics of exclusion, award of contracts to foreigners, inauguration of the Edo State House of Assembly, attack on Oshiomhole, attack on Obaseki and the Oba of Lagos and severance allowance to Dr. Pius Odubu. He urged Governor Obaseki and Oshiomhole to shield their sword as well as restore the trust and confidence that once existed between them to achieve the desired progress in Edo. Bishop Kure said Oshiomhole and Obaseki should focus on the vision they had from the beginning and not the division. According to him: “We urged His Excellency not to relent in his effort towards the good governance of the state and to pursue the issue of inclusion by resolving the issue with aggrieved party members within the ambit of the rule of law so as to join forces together to ensure continuity in the art of governance of the state. “Following the uncommon developmental strides made thus far by the administration of Obaseki, the Edo people are convinced that his choice was not misplaced and are therefore grateful.”