 THE International Real Estate Federation (FIABCI), Nigeria chapter, has called for trade liberalisation and an improvement on the ease of doing business. FIABCI President Mr. Adeniji Adele made this call on the sideline of the announcement of ‘FIABCI- Nigeria Business Forum 2020’ on ease of doing business. He said the poor state of infrastructure, social amenities and inadequate access to finance contributed to the slow progress recorded in the real estate sector. Adele said FIABCI is a business network of real estate professionals, which provides access and opportunities for real estate professionals interested in gaining knowledge, sharing information and conducting international business with one another. According to him, the association has members in 65 countries, including 100 professional associations, 65 academic institutions and 3000 individual members from all professions of the real estate sector. “FIABCI is the most representative organisation of the real estate industry in the world and holds special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,” he said. Adele, while commending the Federal Government for introducing reforms through the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), expressed the association’s determination to help correct the nation’s poor image. The FIABCI boss also commended the Federal Government for some of the noticeable reforms in the housing sector. While asking for more reforms in the sector, he, however, bemoaned the challenge of multiple taxation by government and her agencies, which, according to him, should be providing the enabling environment for the housing sector to thrive. He, however, said FIABCI has realised that effective collaborations among players in the private and public sectors have the capacity to create the enabling path for the nation’s economic growth. Adele said effective private/public sector collaboration will also enhance the ease of doing business within and among industry professionals locally and in the Diaspora.