It is often said that the noble game of polo is closer to northern cultures than anywhere else in the country and Kaduna Polo Tournament has proved that startling fact for over a century now. Just last month, the polo world descended on the cosmopolitan city to celebrate the centenary of one of the world’s most revered prizes, the Georgian Cup. What milestone that was for Adamu Yaro, one of the legends of the goal and revered +5-goal player who was decorated along with a select few during the Blue Jacket Legends Award Gala. In his most revealing interview yet, Yaro speaks about his love for the game from the cradle and how it has impacted on his life. Excerpts… Being Georgian Cup Centenary Award I was so happy and delighted to be part of that Georgian Cup Centenary Award Gala event. It is momentous for us as legends of the game. We thank God we were able to achieve this and we hope our young ones will also achieve even greater or higher than what we did. So I was so happy for what happened and I really congratulated the president of Kaduna Polo Club, Alhaji Suleiman Abubakar. This is something that should be sustained, and I believe this will encourage others to do more. So I really appreciate the recognition. We thank God. My first contact with polo My father happened to work for one of the top construction companies called Dumez and my father was managing their recreational activities which also included polo and other sporting activities and by that, we came close to horses. That was how we started riding and because the horses were at the polo club in Lagos, we were quite familiar with the noble game of kings as kids. It was my cousin and brother, Alhaji Audu Yaro, he is also a polo player and he attained the same plus five. He’s late now; may his soul rest in peace. He introduced me to this game, even though we all grew up, especially as northerners, to find horses in our houses. So we’ve been riding all this while and we’ve been watching polo. My dad took interest in the game and decided to start training ourselves by ourselves. So anyway, in actual sense, I trained myself but I got some tips from top players like my brother Audu Yaro and Ahmadu Yakubu. Polo not a dangerous game I don’t see polo or any other sports as a dangerous game. I have been a sportsman all my life. I have been into boxing and football called soccer in my secondary school days. I was playing for my school, CMS Grammar School in Lagos, but due to an injury I sustained on my knee, I decided to lay off football. As sportsman, I decided to engage myself in polo because already I was riding, but I started playing after the demise of my father, that was when I was allowed to play, and I was still in school then. My parent didn’t permit me to engage in the game much earlier because they say polo is a big man’s game, so I must become somebody first before taking on the game. I came into polo because of my love for horses and the friendliness nature of game that allows you to associate and be exposed to opportunities especially during the time of the late General Hassan Katsina and others. Today, I thank God for that decision because it took me to my passion, which is business. Today, I’m controlling a vast-growing company. My unforgettable polo wins I started playing polo precisely in September 1986. But before then, I’ve been riding; I’ve been practicing in Lagos. I was born in Lagos actually and I grew up there. When I started playing polo, my first tournament was in Sokoto in September 1986.Luckily, we were able to win the two trophies I entered. I remember, in that my debut tournament, I was raised from handicap -2 to 0 and from then I never looked back till I hit the highest Nigerian rating of +5-goal player. My most favourite victories were two. First was Majekodunmi Cup with Imani in1994. We played against Ashbert Raiders in the final, and Georgian Cup 1994 with Kaduna Imani we defeated all our three opponents to win the cup. I played with Dawule Baba, Suleiman Abubakar and Santiago Bottaro from Argentina. These two finals were the most competitive games I have played in my polo career. We played against a strong and a formidable Ashbert that boasted Prince Albert Esiri, Senator Toks Ogunbanjo, Dapo Ojora and a Kenyan professional, Simon Koseye. The final went into cliff hanger after a score draw, so we had to apply the polo rules, to decide the winner the following day. The pitch was loaded with top dignitaries and thousands of polo enthusiasts. That final pitch, the strongest team from the north against the strongest from the south, was special in many ways because ii came shortly after the famous June 12 election that almost divided the country. The June 12 final sparked a lot of controversy, while some wanted Imani from the north to give the cup to Ashbert from the south as part of reconciliatory efforts after the electoral crisis, others would not want politics to be brought into the game for whatever reason. Eventually though, the final was concluded the following day with Imani scoring the golden goal to win. Enduring memories of Georgian Cup My first Georgian Cup tournament was in 1990 in Kaduna with Kaduna Kakuri. I played alongside Dawule Baba, Babangida Hassan and Col. Abubakar Dangiwa Umar (retd.) and we won the cup that year. By the special grace off the Almighty, I have won the Georgian Cup four times. Georgian Cup through the years What we are witnessing currently is a far cry of what the Georgian Cup was in the old good days of Nigerian polo. Back then we were all Nigerian players playing at the height of four, three and two goals. No player with a lower handicap was allowed to play the Georgian then. In fact, it was meant only for the masters. But today, what we are witnessing is foreign players coming to play our Georgian for us, while we the players watch from the stands. It’s so sad that we no longer have many top notch local players anymore. What we have in the country now are mostly one and two goal-players who are not fit for the Georgian Cup warfare. The Georgian Cup magic is all but gone and what we are living with is excitements of the past or a poor duplication of those epics of old. During our time, it took almost a year to prepare for the Georgian both physically and mentally as an individual and as a team player. We also pray a lot for God to grant us victory and protect us to come out of the tournament safely, because, as they say, polo is the most dangerous sport in the world. The logistics of competing then was massive. Many players and patron embarked on training tours just to be fit for the Georgian Cup. Today, what we have is a patron going abroad to hire two professionals and pay them heavily to help him win the Georgian, while the local talents rot away without support and sponsorships. Look, Nigerians don’t want to come to polo clubs across the country, to watch foreign players playing. They want to see more Nigerians, their brothers, uncles, cousins, and friends and associates playing, that is why interest in the game is suffering today. Charting new course for Nigerian polo We need a strong and an innovating regulatory body to administer the game back to its golden days. Without a strong and firm governing body, there is no way the game can grow, not to talk of regaining its past glories. In those days, we used to have great men like Gen. Hassan, Gen. Rotimi, Col Ahmadu Yakubu, Umaru Shinkafi, and Senator Idris Kuta, among others, at the helm of affairs when Nigerian polo was at its best. Life outside polo Polo has really helped me in challenging my life to greater things and exposing me to the world. I have played around the world, apart from the Australia continent, and I’m indebted to that. Through the game, I have had the opportunity of meeting people who are useful in my business endeavours. Adamu Yaro is a patient God-fearing young man who was able to surmount all odds to raise himself up there with hard work and determination. I started from the scratch, I never worked for anybody, institution or company. I’ve always been on my own. I started rearing chickens when I was a kid and by the special grace of the Almighty, I’m running business concerns that cut across the West Coast and other African countries. I’m into automobile, manufacturing and construction and I run my businesses from Lagos with branches spread across the country and dealers from around West Africa and beyond. So, I’m doing well in my business and I really thank God for his blessings. I started learning business from my mother when I was a kid, she used to give me pocket money from the proceed of her restaurant business whenever I went to school and I would return some coins to her after school and she always told me to save it for tomorrow, and from those savings I started my chicken farming. Between family and philosophy of life I’m 52 years old, happily married with happy children who are gifts from the Almighty. All my kids are doing well in their educational endeavours both within and outside the country. So I thank God for that. My philosophy is simple. Every human being is born with wealth; just trace your wealth and be happy for it. Life is all about hard work, self-belief, humility and be God fearing. Always endeavour to leave enduring legacies for the generation unborn.