Cornerstone Insurance Plc has risen to exceed the N18 billion new minimum capital requirement by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). After hitting a low point on huge claims payment in its 2016 and 2017 financial year, the composite insurer is also back to profitability. The company came out from its loss position of N1.7 billion in 2017 to N1.8 billion profit in 2018. Following rumours that the company is troubled and has sold its newly built property and company’s head office, along Lekki axis, Lagos, the company clarified that the sale has further increased the liquidity of the company to meet and surpass expectations. Speaking to reporters at the company’s head office in Victoria Island, Lagos, the Group Managing director, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, said the company is in a comfortable financial situation to scale through the recapitalisation. He said: “The sale of our new property along Lekki axis has further increased the liquidity of the company to meet and surpass expectations. The company would have loved to keep the property for the long run, but we were challenged with the fact that real estate investment is not admissible in the ongoing recapitalisation. “This necessitated the sale of the building for a handsome amount that covers the cost of the building project and still left with profit. At present, we are in a stronger financial position to scale through the exercise as our balance sheet is stronger and healthy”. Aside this, he said, there were preliminary discussions with two or three underwriting firms on consolidation to make Cornerstone brand a stronger one, post-recapitalisation. He believes consolidation makes better economic sense during recapitaIisation rather than throwing in capital, adding that consolidation nurtures expertise, improved technical capacity aside the financial strengthening it brings to the adopting company. “The company came out from its loss position of N1.7 billion in 2017 to N1.8 billion profit in 2018, even as the 2019 profit outlook is showing sign of higher profit from that of the previous year, judging from its 2019 third quarter report.    