By Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency cushion the effect of economic hardship in the country. Its National President Rev Olasupo Ayokunle, who gave the advice in his Christmas message, also asked state and local government to do the same. He said the present challenges faced by the country will usher in joy. Ayokunle pleaded with Christians not to engage in criminality to celebrate Christmas no matter the provocation. A statement in Abuja on Tuesday and personally signed by the CAN boss said: “Another Christmas is here when we celebrate the birth of the Messiah, the best gift from God. “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. “Do not engage in any crime or criminality in order to celebrate the Christmas. But instead, look up to God and you will not be disappointed. I urge governments at all levels to look for ways of cushioning the effects of the economic hardships in the land. “It is the celebration of Immanuel, God who is with us. Christmas is also the celebration of the Word that “became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth” (John 1:14). His birth was a sign from God. “Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel” (Isaiah 7:14). On behalf of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), I wish all Christians a merry Christmas. It is my prayer that your joy will be full and your desires met in the name of Jesus. “I am aware that we are in a hard time. Rice is not available and where it is, it is not within the reach of common people because of its price. It is a passing phase and very soon, the God who ended the unprecedented economic depression in Samaria will surely give us victory over our challenges. “We are all happy for the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ today for coming to the world for our redemption, but that did not come without a sacrifice of love from our Father God, from our Lord Jesus Christ and from Mary and Joseph. They all paid the sacrifices for the joy of the rest of us. “I want every Nigerian to know that our present challenges will be the springboard for our full joy of Christmas. “The first Christmas was also full of pains and sacrifices or challenges before the Saviour was born. God the Father had to part with His Son by sending Him to us for our redemption. “The Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ had to humble Himself by putting on the flesh, allowing Himself to be conceived by ordinary mortal, a virgin called Mary for nine months. “He walked on the streets and experienced human limitations. For example, He became hungry like us, suffered pain and received insults from humans, just like us. “However, when the baby was delivered, joy came. The baby’s fame, which also gave the parents recognition in human history, cannot be compared to the pains they bore. “Whatever challenges you are passing through now will not prevent your joy of Christmas. Whatever Nigerians are experiencing now will lead to the joy of the future. Psalm 39: 5 says, ‘weeping may endure till night, but joy comes in the morning.’ “Joy will come your way this Christmas by God’s Hand of miracle. Nigerians and Nigeria will come out of the challenges to experience enduring joy and happiness in the name of Jesus. “The present challenges and pains Nigerians are experiencing will later end in joy in Jesus’ name. Tough times never last but tough people do. God is aware of our pains and is doing something about it. Joy shall come in the morning for us in the name of Jesus.”