A Whistle blower residing at Bado area near Shehu Shagari College of Education (SSCOE), Sokoto, has called on authorities to investigate circumstances surrounding the death of a teenager, Aisha Yusuf. Late Yusuf, 18, resident of Kasarawa area in Wamakko Local Government Areas of the state, was a casual staff with the secretariat of College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), SSCOE Chapter. The deceased was reported dead on Aug. 15, 2019, by one Kabiru Tanko, an executive member of the union in the institution. The Whistle blower (name withheld) told newsmen on Tuesday in Sokoto that the deceased was allegedly abused sexually and impregnated by the said Tanko, a lecturer with the college. ”Following the attempt by the alleged suspect to abort her pregnancy she eventually die in the process and was reported that her death was as a result of electrocution after he took her to the hospital. “However, her death has over time, left neighbours and some family members in confusion over the conflicting versions linked to the incident,” the blower who pleaded anonymity said. The source explained that Tanko, who knew the poor background of late Yusuf’s home, contacted her father of his intention to secure employment for her at the union’s secretariat on a N10,000 monthly salary to assist the family, which the father agreed. He said that as she commenced work, the lecturer allegedly took advantage to sexually abuse her whenever she is at work place. “This practice continued secretly for long period before her death that led to the circumstances of the process to abort a pregnancy she conceived. “Surprisingly, in the process of the deceased burial, people noticed bleeding coming from her private organ which threw suspicion on those who attended the rites. “At that point, I became disturbed and immediately contacted an Assistant Commissioner of Police (CID), who swiftly arranged a team of police that arrested the suspect for investigation. “But unfortunately, the accused was released within three days. As I am talking to you now, nothing has been heard of the case again and the college authorities have not taken any action,” he added. The Acting Spokesman of the Sokoto state Police Command, ASP Abdulkadir Datti, confirmed that they were aware of the incident through intelligence gathering and subsequently arrested the prime suspect in the case. “After an investigation, we realised that there was no established evidence linking the suspect to the death, hence we gave him on bail to the college authority. “However, we emphasised that if the college authorities eventually establish any evidence to support the allegation against Tanko, should come up with it and revisit the matter for justice to take its course,” he said. On its part, the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH) where the deceased was allegedly taken for treatment, confirmed that there was no official record to trace such claim. The hospital’s Public Relations Officer, Malam Buhari Abubakar, said that even if it is a dead corpse brought to the hospital, it must be certified by a doctor and deposited in the morgue where the family or relations will make arrangement for conveyance. “A certificate will be issued. From our records we do not have any of such case. There is no autopsy carried out on the corpse for detail certification. In fact, the deceased was not brought to this hospital except somewhere else,” he said. One of the casual staff of the college, who also pleaded for anonymity, confirmed that the incident incident happened at the residence of Tanko located within the school premises. “Tanko conducted the alleged abortion on late Aisha Yusuf in his house with the aid of a Corps member (doctor) serving in the college clinic. “In the process, she died as a result of profuse bleeding. Blood was everywhere on the floor which was eventually cleaned up by some clinic staff,” he narrated. The father of the deceased, Malam Yusuf Hassan, a cart pusher, said that he was not aware of his daughter’s pregnancy nor abortion before her death. “I only knew that she was complaining of headache and stomach pain and came to me for some money to go to hospital and I told her that I had no money but only N20 with me. “She said she is going to her place of work to borrow pending when she get her salary. I said its okay then she left. “To my surprise, her mother called me and on getting home, she looked at me and bursted into tears profusely, saying Aisha is no more, that Tanko just called to tell her,” he said. Hassan, also a casual watchman at a project site within the college, added that he attempted to get to the hospital to convey the corpse home but a neighbour stopped him. “Though, I was not told of the hospital where Aisha was taken to, but Tanko single handedly brought her body to us in his car as he narrated that he helped her to the hospital. “Moreover, her mother after the burial rites, told me that there was an earlier conversation between them, saying that if she could not return the mother should offset a debt for her,” he added. The deceased father further confirmed that the Police had invited them on the incident and asked them on their knowledge about the sudden death, “but since that time we have not heard from them”. Meanwhile, the Provost of the College, Dr Wadata Hakimi, said he had no knowledge of the incident, while the COEASU chapter Union Chairman, declined comments. (NAN)