Two million women are raped in Nigeria yearly, according to the Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Pauline Tallen, necessitating a national sex offenders’ register as part of measures to check the crime. The novel national register, launched on November 25 to mark the 2019 International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, is a response to the alarming rise in cases of sexual offences in schools, corporate organisations and faith-based organisations, Tallen said. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), in June, reported increasing sexual violence against women from 2015–2017 based on data provided by the Nigeria Police Force and the Ministry of Justice. According to a 2017 report by UNICEF, one in four Nigerian women is sexually abused before the age of 18. It is a reflection of the scale of the problem that Lagos and Ekiti states had introduced sex offenders’ registers before the Federal Government’s intervention. A petition to the Federal Government in March by ‘The Consent Workshop,’ which had about 8,000 signatures,  further helped to draw attention to the problem. Following the launch of the national sex offenders register, the Federal Government is expected to give greater attention to the problem. An official of Nigeria’s Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC), Juliana Joseph, explained that convicted rapists named in the national sex offenders register (SOR) will have to live with the stigma, which raises questions whether the register is meant to rectify behaviour or punish for life. Joseph, who manages the SARC in Kaduna State, was quoted as saying: “The SOR will be kept in Nigeria where the names of people who have been alleged to be perpetrators of sexual offences or those that have been convicted of rape will be written on it, in separate places. “Employers of labour go there to find out if the name of the proposed employee is in the register. It is supposed to be a naming and shaming register. “People will see that once their names are on the register, even leaving the country becomes difficult. Other countries will always search for the names on the register. Once your name is there, you will not be able to go to school or travel freely abroad. Once your name goes in there, you are finished for life.”  Rape and rapists are deservedly being attacked from all sides, as the Senate is considering a bill seeking the removal of a two-month Statute of Limitation on the prosecution of rape offenders, as contained in the Criminal Code Act. The sponsor of the bill, Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central), argued against “the proviso that prosecution of the offender must be commenced within two months after the offence has been committed.”  Limiting the commencement of prosecution of sexual offenders to within two months after the crime does not show seriousness in fighting the crime. The war against rape and rapists needs all hands on deck. It is unacceptable that only 11 states out of the 36 states of the federation adopted the Violence against Persons (Prohibition) Act (VAPP) Act of 2015, which is supposed to support the fight against sexual offences. However, it is one thing to have a sexual offenders’ register, but a different matter altogether to sustain such register. For instance, the sexual offenders’ registers in Lagos and Ekiti states are said to have been “irregularly updated and rarely referred to.” Sexual offences are so offensive that fighting against them requires not only a clear policy on their unacceptability, but also a review of counter-productive laws as well as a firm commitment to the implementation of reasonable anti-rape statutes.