by Adekunle Yusuf  The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has commended the Beaconhill Smile Clinics for leading the charge in providing advanced dental care services in the country, saying doing so will improve oral health among Nigerians. Abayomi, who gave the commendation at the inauguration of the ‘Exclusive Smile and One for 10’ initiative by the dental clinic at the weekend, said he was delighted that a world-class dental care facility has just opened. Everybody needs a dental check-up once a year to prevent late complications of poor oral hygiene, he said. Abayomi, who said he was on a “spy mission to copy what is good here and incorporate such into Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s health agenda for Lagosians,” noted that it was important for the public sector to support and partner with the private sector to provide standard oral health services, since the private sector has adequate facilities and expertise to render efficient service delivery. “It is important use the private sector as a benchmark for standards in the public sector and also to establish some collaboration between the private and public sector in terms of the mobile clinic, foundation and also mentoring some of our young dentists in the public sector. The government is particular that we do not neglect oral health and that is very crucial. Nigerians do not see the oral cavity as something that they should pay attention to, but we want to change that narrative now and be able to particularly create more awareness and more preventative management, especially in young children and our entire population,” Abayomi said.  The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Beaconhill Smile Clinics, Dr. Oluwaseun Akinbobola, said the aim of establishing world-class dental facilities in the country is to reduce medical tourism, as well as reverse the trend of brain drain in the dental health system by providing adequate and well-equipped clinics where dentists can practise and improve their knowledge of oral health. “We are trying to reverse the trend where doctors are relocating to Canada to practise. We are encouraging foreign trained Nigerian doctors to return to the country so we can give our people the best oral care, which they travel abroad to seek,” he said. Advising Nigerians to ensure they avoid odd practices and go for check-up to prevent severe dental complications, he said the One for 10 initiative is specially designed to help the poor people in the rural and urban communities to access quality dental treatment for free. “For every person that patronises us, it empowers us as a clinic to create an opportunity to offer free dental services to ten people who ordinarily cannot afford the treatment, he said.