Freemasons of Calabar Lodge No.3434EC, under the District Grand Lodge of Nigeria/United Grand Lodge of England, English Constitution has embarked on a charity outreach to the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) and the General Hospital, Calabar. The charity outreach yesterday in Calabar witnessed a donation of 12 wheelchairs; six each, to the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) and the General Hospital, Calabar in accordance with the basic principles of the freemasonry organization that rests on “Brotherly love, Relief, and Truth”. Speaking at the UCTH conference hall, Worshipful Brother Francis Effiong Edet, Secretary of Calabar Lodge 3434 EC said Freemasonry is the oldest fraternity in existence, having survived for more than 300 years and that Calabar Lodge 3434EC was the fifth English lodge that was warranted in Nigeria; first to be established in the ancient city of Calabar and former eastern Nigeria. He further noted that on Tuesday 5th April 1919 when the lodge hosted a unification meeting of all masonic lodges in Calabar; compromising, English, Irish and Scottish constitution, a significant sum of Fifty Pounds, Fifteen Shillings was raised for charity and this was in aid of the Masonic War Hospital. The occasion that marked the beginning of charity projects of Calabar Lodge 3434EC He explained that the wheelchairs being donated to the two hospitals in Calabar were purchased through contributions from members of the Calabar Lodge 3434EC. His words, “we will not fail to acknowledge Right Worshipful. Bro. Dr. Onyechi Ikpeazu , OON, SAN, FCArb, the current District Grand Master of Nigeria, English Constitution for his generous support towards this project.” His Royal Highness Muri Ekpo Eyo ( a Past Master) and Worshipful Bro. Chuka Ebere ( a Past  Master)  made the presentation of the wheelchairs and dedicated it to the glory of God and for the comfort and convenience of all patients who may use it. Responding on behalf of UCTH, the deputy Chief Medical Director, Prof. Nkpo Ngim said “in Cross River State, this is the apex hospital and we do receive patients from Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, etc. because of the sheer expertise that we have in the hospital”. Ngim stated emphatically that health care cannot be completely offered by the government alone, we need the cooperation of other bodies, organizations, individuals, etc. “Sometimes you walk in and see old men and women struggling to move around without any aid, these wheelchairs will become very useful to them. It is a well thought out donation and we welcome it wholeheartedly. On behalf of the Chief Medical Director Prof. Ikpeme Ikpeme and his entire management team, we really appreciate this donation and we know that this will not be the last because what you have done is not just for the poor but for everybody in the society.” At the General Hospital, the Head of Administration, Mr. Eteng Etta representing the Medical Superintendent, Dr. Etim Ayi, commended the effort of the Calabar lodge 3434EC for their charity outreach to the hospital, noting that it was “timely” He said “if you check around, you will see that we don’t have this, though many organizations have made donations to this hospital in the past, but this is the biggest in recent times and it came when the hospital needed it most.”