Our Reporter  No fewer than 20 students of the faculties of Pure and Applied Science and the Social and Management Science bagged First Class degrees at the Southwestern University, Okun-Owa, Ogun State, during its maiden convocation of the university penultimate week. They are among the 345 students who began their academic journey at the institution in 2016. The institution also conferred n honorary degree on the Owa of  Okun-Owa, Oba Gabriel Abiodun; member, board of trustees, Chief Patrick Sholola, and Evangelist Olubukola Okunnowo. Founder and Chancellor of the university, Babatunde Odufuwa, extolled the students for the successful completion of their academic session. He said, “I congratulate you, the graduands today for your great height.  I wish you the very best. Your journey has just started. Southwestern university has built the necessary foundation needed for you to succeed. You have been empowered with qualitative education to achieve the best. We congratulate you as you go into the wonderful world of times.” The Chancellor urged the government to fund the educational sector better and support private sector providers of education. “The government must at once give incentives to the operators of private tertiary institutions and their students. Government should realise that these institutions are helping government to train its citizens. The government pays the bill for students in public institution in the country as such must encourage students in private institutions to augment cost of their training.” In his remark, the acting Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Nojimu Amusa advised graduands to pursue excellence and be worthy ambassadors in the nation.  “As you are graduating, you are taking another journey to actualising your dream of achieving your life’s goals to think critically and responsibly. Be leaders in your field. Your degree is not just to earn a living but to be tool to contribute in changing the society for the better. “With your current standard, let me urge you to pursue excellence in whatever you do. Do not be satisfied with mediocrity no matter how comfortable it is, try to pursue excellence because excellence will set you apart from the crowd. Never give up always,” Amusa said. Giving the breakdown of the graduating students, Amusa said of the 345 students 189 attained second class upper; 108 students bagged second class lower; and 27 had third class. Prof Amusa appreciated the parents and guardians and urged them to continue to invest in educating their wards. In her convocation lecture, the Dean of Faculty of Applied Science, Adeleke University, Osun State, Prof. Bukola Oyawoye, prasied private universities for their role in the country’s educational development. Oyawoye however urged the government to abolish restrictions and regulation that hampers the growth of private university education in the country. 