Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Ifeanyi Ejiofor, lawyer to the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu on Tuesday, alleged that the Anambra State Police Command was after his life. He alleged that an order to arrest him dead or alive has been issued by the command. Ejiofor was declared wanted by the Police last week over alleged brutal murder of two Police officers in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State. In a petition to the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, the legal practitioner requested for immediate intervention from the commission. Ejiofor reiterated that his only offence was his role as the lawyer to Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB, including his winning of virtually all frivolous charges filed against the group in various courts’ of competent jurisdiction. He also called on the United Kingdom to intervene and prevail on both Federal Government and the Nigerian Police to set aside the “wanted” declaration made against him. Ejiofor who quantified the property destroyed in the clash in his ancestral home to the tune of N700m, also asked that an independent Investigative Panel be set up to investigate the incident. He, however, pledged to make himself available to the Police if their intention was to investigate the allegations. The petition partly read, “Why is the Anambra State Police Command shielding itself or keeping mute over the mayhem its personnel, the military and other security agencies perpetrated in my ancestral home, including the burning of houses and other properties valued at over N700m as well as killing and maiming of defenceless and unarmed citizens? ” Is the instant contrive against me not inimical to the provision of Rule 24 of the Rules of Conduct for Legal Practitioners, 2007, that placed a duty on Lawyers to represent their client(s) to the best of their ability within the confines of the law? “The only plausible offence I committed in the real sense of it is because I am the lawyer to Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB who have won virtually all frivolous charge filed against the members of IPOB in various courts’ of competent jurisdiction across the south-south and south-East states, including Abuja. “I make bold to state most respectfully Sir, that my thorough investigation and findings revealed that an order to arrest me dead or alive has been given. Ejiofor further alleged that a certain oil mogul in the area was behind his ordeal for the sole purpose of satisfying the “powers that be.” He continued, “Furthermore Sir, the Anambra State Commissioner of Police, had quickly declared me wanted to enable them cover their evil tracks on the heinous crime committed in my house. “I have been reliably informed that the Commissioner of Police Anambra State, had issued an order to his subordinates to shoot me at sight, and as it stands today, my life is increasingly exposed to possible conspiracy of extinction in the hands of deadly police officers. “It is pertinent to stress that being a law abiding citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and a Legal Practitioner who firmly believes in the Rule of Law, I have no problem whatsoever making myself available to the Nigerian Police if indeed their intention is/was to investigate an alleged complaint, arrest and/or prosecute me if found culpable “I call on the United Kingdom, to intervene in the circumstance and prevail on the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Nigerian Police to immediately set aside the declaration made against me on the 3rd December, 2019, declaring me “a wanted person”, and to fully give effect to my fundamental human rights. “I further call on the United Kingdom, to prevail on the Federal Government of Nigeria to set up an independent Investigative Panel to investigate the incident that occurred at my ancestral home in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State, on the 2nd day of December, 2019. “I finally crave the indulgence of the United Kingdom for a proactive oversight and intervention in the light of this obvious travesty of justice against me, in view of the extraordinary circumstances prevailing in the case”. Reacting, Police spokesperson, Haruna Mahammed dismissed Ejiofor’s allegations as baseless. He said,” He is lawyer; he knows what to do when police have declared any person wanted. “He should come out of hiding and defend himself if he has credible evidence. It is not a hide-and-seek game as in the way he is doing it.”