Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja Kinsmen of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the weekend, went spiritual, laying curses on those from among them, who were working with outsiders to oust the party leader. The Nation gathered that elders, women and youths from Iyamoh and six other communities in Etsako West council area of Edo state, gathered at the Iyamoh community Square to perform a spiritual rite of laying curses on all those who had benefitted from Oshiomhole, but had now turned back to stab him in the back. Leading other chief priests from the seven communities, Alhaji Suleman Idris, said they could no longer tolerate the attitude of some of their kinsmen, especially from the Etsako extraction, who benefited immensely from Oshiomhole as Governor of Edo State. The process that lasted almost one and half hours, saw the elders and women going half nude to place curses on those Etsako people that want to join others to remove Oshiomhole from his position. The ceremony also blessed those who have joined hands in ensuring that Oshiomhole is not disgraced especially Mallam Aliyu Momodu, ward 5 chairman and Alhaji Abubakar Akokhia, Etsako West APC Chairman.  The Elders were grateful to the APC faithful in Edo South, Central and North Senatorial Districts for their support and pledged to always do everything humanly possible to reciprocate anytime the need arises. Similarly, Five Wards of the Etsako West council area APC Chairmen also held an extended Ward meeting with the LGA Chairman, Alhaji Abubakar Akokhia, to make public their position on the party’s current crisis in the state. In a resolution signed by the Ward 5 chairman, Mallam Aliyu Momodu, the wards resolved to unanimously pass a vote of implicit confidence on the APC National Chairman, Comrade Oshiomhole, whom they described as the Messiah of the Afemai and Edo State in general. The ward also passed a vote of confidence on the party’s local government chairman, Alh Abubakar Akokhia, whom they collectively referred to as the political father of the ward, and reiterated that it is the direction he follows that they will all follow as well. Reacting to an alleged meeting chaired by former ward 5 chairman, Mala Beliyu Yamah, Akokhia condemned the act, stressing that it is among the plans of the state government to destabilize the party’s structure in the state, which he said is impossible. The local government party chairman further advised the current council chairman, Alh Inusa Imonofi, not to allow himself to be used by those he described as enemies of the party to disrupt party activities. “Obviously, the kangaroo Ward meeting that was sponsored by the state government and chaired by a suspended former ward chairman was not attended by the known Ward 5 executive members and leaders, who were holding the authentic ward meeting at the residence of an APC chieftain, who doubles as the party’s LGA chairman, Alh Abubakar Akokhia JP, the Oduma of South Ibie Kingdom. “Let me expressed delight over the overwhelming attendance of party faithful across the ward who graced the meeting, am well read to protect the party’s interest in the local government area, and uphold its supremacy,” he said.