By Olaitan Ganiu  NIGERIAN musicians 9ice, and Dare Art-Alade were among celebrities who  graced the launching of the Adopt Campaign Initiative by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. Adopt Campaign serves as a platform to raise funds for Nigerian youths especially athletes, in order to become a world champion. The ministry through the programme provides private individuals and corporate organisations the opportunity to pick an athlete, team and sporting facilities and sponsor them. In the night, 9ice thrilled the crowd with a song he recorded with 2baba, Street Credibility and followed it up with his hit single, Gongo. Also the son of a renowned Nigerian entertainer, Art Alade, Darey received a standing ovation with his ‘Pray For Me’ song. Speaking the event, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Hon. Sunday Dare described the initiative as a developmental scheme that was conceptualized and developed in collaboration with the organized private sector and priviledged individuals in society to support the athletes. “Nigerian youths have goals, they hope to succeed in whatever they do and the aim of an athlete is to be world champions, to stand on a podium and fly the country flag. So, as a country who believe in dreams, they need our support so that can win gold, bronze medals and make the country proud,” he said. “Let us support their dreams with what little we have, our actions will definitely assure them that they are not alone by they have the backup of Nigerians. By adopting an athlete means you are part of their story and to the story of Nigeria as they take their place in history.”  The minister offered that beyond the Adopt-Campaign of the ministry, other urgent areas of possible partnerships between organizations could be the sponsorship of grassroots sports competitions, organization, and coaching programmes, media initiatives to project the activities of the ministry. He also used the medium to urged Nigerians to embrace his recently flagged off the programme, the ‘Work Experience Programme’ (WEP) initiative. According to him, the initiative is to ensure that young people acquire a level of experience and hone their skills, to make them suitable for employment and to acquire the required skills for self-development. Also, the Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola in his welcome remarks reiterated that it is merely stating the obvious that the right investment in youth would not only build resilient nations but create conditions that support economic growth and social stability. He said that in order to be able to harness the potentials of the youth, we must forge partnership the campaign is a platform for engagement with the public and private organization on support for youth development agenda and the sports sectors through the Work Experience Programme and the Sports Adoption Programme.