 UNIVERSITY of Benin Alumni Association, Lagos Chapter has honoured the Group Managing Director of United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka. The honour which was conferred at a dinner in Lagos was in appreciation of Uzoka’s ‘hardwork, diligence and continuous commitment to the values of excellence’ as a banker and head of the Pan-African financial institution with presence in 20 African countries. Honoured along with Uzoka were Emeritus Professor, Osato Giwa-Osagie, a renowned professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Founder of OMNI Medical Clinic, Dr(Mrs) Rametu Omamegbe Momodu, Deputy Director, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), among others. Responding to the honour, Uzoka expressed his delight at being honoured by the university he holds in high esteem. “I am very proud of this great university which was very instrumental in moulding me to what I have become today, driving a financial institution with strong commitment to the development of the African continent,” Uzoka said. He reiterated his personal commitment and that of the bank to continue to support the development of UNIBEN, adding that UBA has been showing deep interest and support to the institution, for instance, it recently built an ultra-modern ICT Centre at the Ugbowo Campus through the UBA Foundation among other things. Chairman of Occasion, Gen. Felix Edafioghor said the dinner was in honour of the alumni of the university who have contributed immensely to the development of the society and that of the university. He encouraged the alumni to show deep interest in the affairs of their alma-matter by giving back to the university that contributed to their successes. Also speaking, Pharm. Stephen Onojomete, Chairman, UNIBEN Alumni Association, Lagos Chapter, noted that the award provides an opportunity to showcase and celebrate great mean and women who by hardwork, diligence and a continuous commitment to the values of excellence; have recorded major strides in their chosen profession thus contributing to national growth and development in general and projecting the good image of UNIBEN. Kennedy Uzoka is a distinguished African business executive, with vast experience in banking, business development, financial and business advisory, strategic planning and execution as well as human resource management. He is an advocate of disruptive technology and has led many game-changing innovations in the African banking industry over the past two decades of his career. Uzoka holds a BSc. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Benin is also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Nigeria (CIBN). He is an alumnus of the Advanced Management Program (AMP) of the Harvard Business School, Boston USA, the International Institute of Management Development (IMS) in Lausanne, Switzerland, and the London Business School, United Kingdom. 