By Tony Akowe, Abuja  A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state Prince Tonye Princewill has appealed to Governor Nyesom Wike not to destroy the political integrity and goodwill which took the Ikwerre people 40 years to build. He said the furore generated by the visit of the Bayelsa Governor Seriake Dickson to the paramount ruler of the Kalabari people was not necessary since Wike, as Minister of State for Education, visited the state in company of Dickson without the knowledge of former Governor Rotimi Amaechi. Princewill, said in a statement signed on his behalf by Achitect Williams Wabido in Abuja, that people of goodwill in the state and beyond should advise Wike not to set the Ikwerre people and indeed Rivers state back with his indiscretion. He said Ikwerre Elders must not lose eight of how they got to where today. The former governorship candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria(ACN) was reacting to a recent comment by Governor when Dickson visited the Amanayabo of Kalahari kingdom. He said: “For so many reasons, albeit personal and communal, I had resolve not to join issues with Governor Ezenwo Nyesom Wike anymore on his actions as Governor of Rivers State. However, when his actions and inactions form the bases for judging the Ikwerre people as an ethnic group in Rivers State, it becomes expedient to set the records straight. “In quick succession, Governor Wike has made two statements which many consider provocative and insensitive, coming from the person of the Governor. “The first was contained in an audio recording wherein the Governor was quoted to have allegedly and publicly bashed and dared those who criticize him for undermining other parts of the state in his development plan, if any exists at all. “The second was his outburst against the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, an action which many consider disrespectful to the Ancient Stool. “I shall not venture into the discussion of whether development is relatively and evenly spread in the State or not. “This is because, to me, resurfacing roads in GRA, Port Harcourt or building flyovers in Port Harcourt is not a proper measure of development in the State. “There are worldwide acceptable indicators for measuring development and the Governor has not met 100th of that. “So, even the Ikwerre people cannot really boast of development under Governor Wike. I will limit myself therefore to Governor Dickson’s visit to the Kalabari Kingdom.
Governor Wike’s outburst over Governor Seriake Dickson’s recent visit to Kalabari Kingdom during a traditional festival of the Kalabari people hosted, as it were, by the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, HRM, Prof. T.J.T. Princewill reminds me of the Christian teaching of “what you sow you shall reap; the mystics call it “Karma” and the poets refer to same as “retributive justice”. He added: “I must say that Governor Wike’s reaction to that visit was simply a coalescence of Karma, fear and hypocrisy. “Time and time again, Governor Wike puts himself out to the public as a man who does not take what he dishes to other; a man who would not accept from the same measure with which he serves others. That is not an acceptable character in Ikwerre Land. “In the build up to Governor Wike’s gubernatorial ambition and whilst he was shopping for coalition against the then Governor of Rivers State Rotimi Amaechi, now Minister of Transportation, Governor Wike as the Minister of Education (State) accompanied the same Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State to same Kalabari Kingdom, visiting both the Amanyanabo of Kalabari HRM, Prof. T.J.T. Princewill and Amanyanabo of Abonnema King Disrael Gbobo Bob-Manuel on two different dates. ‘Governor Dickson (with Wike as Minister) visited HRM Princewill in December 2013 and King Bob-Manuel in January 2014. Both visits were certainly without reference or deference to the then Governor, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi.
“I recall vividly the particular day Governor Dickson in company of Minister Wike (as he then was) visited King Bob-Manuel. It was on Sunday, 12th January 2014. Their convoy crossed Governor Amaechi’s on the Obiri Ikwerre-Airport bye pass road. Wike’s convey that day had two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs).
“I still recall clearly the equanimity with which Rt. Hon. Amaechi received the details of Dickson’s visit then. In Amaechi’ words: “Dickson is first a citizen of Nigeria, if he comes to Rivers State in his private capacity and does not want to be disturbed, I shouldn’t lose sleep about that. “All I can do is to ensure additional security around his route. As we saw, they have enough security.” He went on: “That was how Amaechi took those private visits of Dickson to Kalabari Kingdom, even though Wike ceased the opportunity to lie to Kalabari people about the dispute between Rivers State and Bayelsa State over the ownership of Soku Oil Well, a testimonial that shall live with him forever. “Apart from Wike, others who accompanied Governor Dickson in those visits in 2013/2014 include Prince Uche Secondus National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (then Deputy National Chairman), Bro. Felix Obuah Rivers State Chairman of PDP, Hon. Tammy Danagogo, current Secretary to Rivers State Government (then Minister for Sports), Prof. Edmund Alison Oguru, Secretary to Bayelsa State Government at the time, amongst others. “Governor Wike’s reactions to Governor Dickson’s visit to Kalabari Kingdom re-enforces an Ikwerre adage which says that “a person who hunts human-head does not allow another person with machete to be behind him”. Unfortunately, both nature and the universe go in circles, thus whatever goes around comes around. “In conclusion, let me refer to Governor Wike as my brother, after a very long while; and to advise him publicly not to completely destroy the political integrity and goodwill that the Ikwerre people (our fathers) sacrificed to build. “The privileges that Wike brags with today, either as Governor or as an “Ikwerre man” took the Ikwerre people 40years to achieve, and must therefore not be destroyed by some acts of indiscretion. Ikwerre Elders must never lose sight of how we got where we are today. A word is sufficient for the wise.”