 Chukwueze and Asisat Oshoala, have made the final shortlist in different categories of the 28th edition of the annual CAF awards to be held on January 7 at the Albatros Citadel Sahl Hasheesh, Hurghada, Egypt. Ighalo who retired from the Super Eagles after this year’s African Cup of Nations (AFCON) IN Egypt will vie against the likes of Mohammed Salah (Egypt and Liverpool) and Saido Mane (Senegal and Liverpool) for the player of the year award. The Shanghai Shenhua striker who has 10 goals in 17 matches this season will be hoping to win the award for the first time. The duo of Osimhen and Chukwueze will battle for the Young Footballer of the Year Award. Osimhem has been in impressive from for the Eagles and his French club. He has scored 10 goals in Ligue one and the UEFA Champions League, while also scoring three goals in the AFCON qualifiers. Osimhen who holds the goals scoring record at the FIFA Under 17 World Cup with 10 goals at the 2015 edition in Chile will battle three other contenders (apart from Chukwueze) for the award. Chukwueze has scored six goals in all competition for his Spanish club, Villarreal and has been linked with top European clubs this season. His wing play is a beauty to watch and he has also contributed immensely to the national team scoring against a goal against Lesotho in the AFCON qualifiers. Oshoala has been shortlisted for the Women Player of the Year award and has won the award on three occasions in the past. She has eight goals for his Spanish team, Barcelona FC in the Primera Liga and the UEFA Champions League. The shortlist of nominees was decided upon by votes from a CAF Technical and Development Committee and a panel of media experts with emphasis on the nominees’ performance of during the year under review, 2019. The final phase of voting for the men’s and women’s African Player of the Year, as well as the male and female Coach of the Year, will be selected by Head Coaches/Technical Directors and Captains of senior national teams from CAF Member Associations. The Inter-clubs Player of the Year will be decided upon by the Head Coaches and Captains of the group phase of the current season of CAF Inter clubs competitions.