Philip Shaibu, the Edo State Deputy Governor, turns 50 today. In this interview with OSAGIE OTABOR, he speaks about how early life activism and democratic struggle of the ’90s shaped his life. How do you feel at fifty? I feel great. How time flies, it’s been a life of struggle, a life of getting things done for people facing oppression. My life has always been about struggle and when I mean struggle, it started right from secondary school till date. I have been an activist from secondary school, where I learnt to fight oppression. From childhood, I like to be of help to people and share my things, so when I grew up they were not surprised that I take people’s issues even more than I take my own. What was your background like? I came from a very humble home. My father was a very humble man. He died as a pastor and my mum was a teacher in the primary school in Etsako in Edo state. You know what it means to be a teacher in those days and the child of a teacher. I was celebrated and I was always feeling highly placed; but most importantly, I went through a tutelage of knowing what is your right and what is not your right. My parents were Roman Catholic till I left secondary school. They left for Charismatic Renewal and later they established their own church but I remained a Catholic. I didn’t join my father at Glory of God Ministry. My father was very liberal and gave us the courage to do what we believe in. Another thing that he did and which I also cultivated from him is that he gave all of us Muslim names. His father was a Muslim and he converted to Christianity. He gave me Momodu. Tell us about growing up? I started struggle from secondary school. I remember when my father followed me to school to beg the school authority and he had to sign an undertaking on my behalf. I led a struggle for improved meal. Right before my father, they asked that if such a thing happened again, would I protest? I said yes innocently, not knowing that I was supposed to say no. And my father gave me a dirty slap. After secondary school, I went into playing football; I didn’t go straight to university. I left Kaduna in 1989 to Edo State. That was my first visit to Edo. Father said I should go and experience home. Every evening, we used to play football and one day somebody invited us to Akure. I was one of those that were picked in that youth tournament at Ekpoma, alongside Yakubu Ayegbeni and others. I ended up in Water Corporation Akure. Later, I followed the coach to Abuja to play for Federal Ministry of Works later Foreign Affairs and Nigeria Prison Service; and then I sat for JAMB and got admitted into University of Jos. After graduating, I started my private work as an accountant and then I delved into politics. Back in school, I co-ordinated the “Abacha must go” of the National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS alongside the late Gani Fawehinmi. I held a lot of rally at Plateau Township Stadium and the one I cannot forget is the one I joined Gani in Yaba, where we were all arrested and we ended up in Gasua Prison, Zamfara. I was released courtesy of a journalist who wrote about my plight. That is why I am always appreciative of journalist. On another occasion, I was arrested and taken to the DSS state headquarters where I was kept with Brigadier General Oladipo Diya. If you check my record from Obasanjo’s time till date, you’ll see that I have always been on the side of the people and that led me into politics. As president of NANS, I joined comrade Adams Oshiomole to stage the first ever strike that crippled this country when Obasanjo announced increase in pump price of petroleum. NANS started that strike. There was also the struggle to reinstate 965 expelled and rusticated students during the military junta. I delved into politics and joined Oshiomhole to rescue Edo State from the hands of the godfather. I have won all my elections apart from the first one in 2003 where I was announced winner and four days later it was changed. I thought as Deputy Governor, the struggle has stopped for us to continue delivering the dividends of democracy but as you can see the struggle started by Oshiomhole is still on. How did you meet your wife? I met my wife during the struggle. She was the Vice President of Student Union Government, Federal Polytechnic Auchi. I was in Auchi to campaign for my election for NANS Presidency. The president was not around; it was the vice president now my wife that received us. I campaign and left. When they discovered I was from Edo State, they formed an alliance to support me. They had thought I was Hausa because I was representing University of Jos. Besides, they knew me by Shaibu and not Philip. She was surprised when I told her I am from Jattu. She came to Bauchi where the election held and gave all her support. I also came to attend her programme as NANS president. She invited me for the Students’ Union Week. That was when I recognised her as a potential wife and I started visiting. It was on the 6th visit that I told her I wanted to marry her. She was like ‘really?’ You just come and say you want to marry me? She thought I was joking but the next time I visited, I told her I wanted to visit her parents. I didn’t know I was to inform my father first. I went to see her parents and her father asked me, ‘You don’t have parents? Will there be an end to the fights against oppression? The fight against oppression seems to be an everlasting fight. The military psyche is still very fresh. A lot of people are still not democratic in their thinking. We have people who think they are democrats but they are more autocratic than the military. I thought it was over as a Deputy Governor, but something always comes up. At 50, I made up my mind that maybe God created me to fight oppression. All the positions I have handled from secondary school to NANS to the House of Assembly, I have stood against oppression. Even in the House of Representatives, I created a movement called the House of Commons to fight oppression. Those of us that were not given committees decided to form a union. As Deputy Governor, I thought I was just to hide behind the governor but I found out that the struggle for the emancipation of Edo people from The Godfather is still continuing. The joy I have is that no to godfatherism has come to stay in Edo. We thank Oshiomhole for leading that struggle. We are helping him to sustain it. How would you describe Oshiomhole? He is one person I will continue to respect. He is my father and nothing has changed. What has changed now is that people are now able to read my role as a son and my role as a politician. We have political differences, no doubt about that; but it has not changed our relationship. Even when he made some statements that suggest what I am not, I refused to reply because when the chips are down; it is me that will still say I am sorry – whether he is right or wrong. He is the one talking and I am not talking. I am comfortable with him talking. That shows I was properly brought up by my father and by him. The other one he thought me that I refused to use is that godfather does not have age. We must kill them. Father and son will definitely come back together. Politically, now we might be in different space. I am not the first son that will disagree with his father politically and I will not be the last. The good news is that it has not changed relationship of father and son. We are on recess politically. How will you described your relationship with Governor Obaseki? I am one person that has advantage than Oshiomhole and Obaseki. I have learnt from Comrade certain style of leadership. I am learning another style of leadership from Obaseki. One part of governance I learnt from Comrade is the communist aspect of governance. I am learning the capitalist aspect from Obaseki. You can imagine how effective I will be if I have to combine both. My relationship with Obaseki is like senior brother and younger brother. I had that feeling at the beginning of how I would cope, being my first time under somebody? But as we moved on, I began to understand him and he is able to understand me. Were you at anytime scared for your life? If I knew what I know about government and its enormous powers back then, I would not have taken some of the risks I took. Imagine me telling Obasanjo, ‘You are the president of Nigeria and I am the president of 40 million Nigerian students.’ At 50, what message do you have for your followers? Just believe, trust in God and do what is right. Don’t get indoctrinated into negativity. The easiest way to attain any height is to be consistent. Be yourself and you can attain your dream. Work towards it and pray