 AN auto firm, Changan Automobile and Stallion Motors, its exclusive national partner in Nigeria, have launched new models of Alsvin, CS 55 and CS 95. The auto firms said the new models are best for the Nigerian roads. According to them, Changan Alsvin V3 is the entry level sedan equipped with a 1.5L engine, automatic transmission. It is a brand new, dynamic, and family friendly sedan offering customers excellent value for money, safety, stylish exterior and interior design with ample space. The CS 55 is designed and developed by Changan’s European Design team, and its shape draws inspiration from Obsidian (Vulcanic Glass). It is equipped with 1.5L Petrol engine with six speed automatic transmission. Changan Cs 95 is a work of art that integrates a simple design into extraordinary functions. Equipped with the Blue Core 2.0L turbo GDI direct injection supercharged engine – which is the best in class. It’s joined with the globally advanced Aisin 6-speed automatic transmission and the latest BorgWarner NexTrac intelligent all-wheel drive system. Stallion Motors Group Chief Financial Officer Mr. Samar Sapre said the launch of the new models from Changan adds to the range and shows the company’s commitment in bringing best and affordable range to the Nigerian customers. Sapre said the company has sales and service outlets in seven locations across the country – two in Lagos and one each in Abuja, Ibadan, Kano, Enugu and Port Harcourt. The company, he said, has invested in a state-of-the-art central auto parts and service centre at Orile Lagos to support the distribution of genuine parts across the nation for the upkeep of the vehicles. The service facilities offer preventive maintenance, mechanical and electrical repair to body shop and paint booth and are periodically trained by Changan to ensure best service delivery. Changan Head of Middle East and Africa Business Mr. Lucas Xiang, described Nigeria as a very important market for Changan’s global business. He said the Alsvin -sedan and CS 55 and CS 95, mid and high-end SUV are equipped with new-generation platform, contemporary design and will offer best-in-class efficiency, performance and comfort. The vehicles, he added, will further augment the brand ethos of “Lasting Safety,”. Changan is one of the top Chinese auto brands that is gaining immense popularity worldwide and is known for its value offering across automotive segments. Changan automobile boasts an industrial history stretching back 157 years. With 32 years of experience in building and selling passenger vehicles, Changan is an early leader in the auto industry.