The menace of odious stench oozing from canals where people openly defecate, robbery attacks among other challenges have left a number of Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in many remote areas of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, grounded or redundant. This has made access to healthcare to suffer untold setback in some parts of the ancient city. The people are now left at the mercy of quacks who administer all manners of unempirical treatment on them. INNOCENT DURU, who visited some of the PHCs, examines the dangers surrounding the plight of the people. “I will rather patronise road side health practitioners than seek medical help at Atipe Pimary Health Centre.  I am not alone in this. A good number of the residents prefer patronising road side health providers and herb sellers. The air around the health centre environment is polluted and one may end up contracting worse sicknesses in the facility if care is not taken.” That was how Monsurat, a resident of Atipe, a remote community in Ibadan East Local Council Development Area of Oyo State, began her reason for shunning the health centre recently established in the community. The space being used by the Primary Health Centre (PHC), according to our findings, was donated by the family of one Chief Adejumo Adeniyi, to make the residents have easy access to healthcare services. The structure sits beside a wide canal where people openly defecate and dump all manner of wastes. Excreta of different sizes and colour, wrapped in papers and some left naked on the bare floor, littered every part of the canal when our correspondent visited. For flies and other creatures that survive on fecal materials, it is an endless banquet as they always have it as they wanted – fresh or dry anytime of the day. The stench emitted by the human and material wastes enveloped the entire area, forcing irritated passersby to cover their noses and faces with handkerchiefs while hurriedly passing through the area. “If passersby could briskly pass through the area covering their mouths and noses, then imagine what would be the fate of a patient on admission in the facility. Would he cover his face all through the time he would be there? This is a huge problem. I have been taking my children to a traditional medicine practitioner rather than risk contracting a strange sickness going to the PHC. If a god would not improve my fortunes, it is better for it to leave me the way I am,” Monsurat said. Another resident of the community, who identified himself simply as Dauda, feared that  the stench in the environment would get worse with the coming of the dry season. He said: “During the rainy season, the stench is very much reduced because flood helps to flush the rubbish away. The stench would definitely get worse as we enter the dry season because there would be no flood to wash the excreta and other wastes away. The excreta would now be drying up there and as it gradually dries up, the stench would be getting worse. “Imagine flies perching and feeding very well on the excreta and going to perch on the food that a sick person is eating. Is that not going to compound his woes?   This has made many people to abandon the facility. In this age and time, it is not proper for us to be relying on roadside health providers for our health needs, but where conditions around a health facility is capable of compounding your health situation, is it not better to seek an alternative?” Aside the dangers posed by reckless defecation in the open, which has contaminated the PHC’s environment, some other residents said they stopped going to the facility because the rooms are always flooded whenever it rains. “I call the PHC ‘Open Heaven’ because the roof is seriously leaking and it is just there for decoration. When there is heavy downpour, you will have to carry your children on your back or shoulder because the flood may be getting to your kneel level.  You will then see the health workers running helter-skelter to save the few hospital equipment.  The time they would have spent attending to patients is what they waste clearing the flood and washing things that flood would have messed up. “Is that the kind of place you want the people to be patronising? Even though the community is a remote environment, we wouldn’t want to endanger our lives going to such a dilapidated building. “It is really a huge challenge and it is regrettable that the family that donated the facility isn’t getting the desired result. The facility itself is not the problem.  The problem is that the government that is supposed to support the laudable gesture of the donor isn’t helping matters,” a resident, who identified himself as Sakiru, said. The residents’ claims were corroborated by some of the PHC’s workers, who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity. “People pooh pooh by the canal and the stench is always unbearable inside the PHC. No patient would agree to stay because the stench is capable of causing airborne diseases. Imagine where patients would come to hospital for treatment and be scared of contracting diseases. It is disturbing. When rain falls, the whole place would be flooded.The quantity of water is not the type that one would use mop to drain. We always use buckets to pack the water. If the rain is very heavy, the flood in the PHC  would almost get to the window level.At that point,both we the PHC workers and patients would run to a corner that is a bit safe.After such terrible experience, the patients would stop coming,” one of the workers said.  Another worker, who is displeased with the condition of the PHC, also said: “Rain has spoilt everything here. The fans aren’t working anymore. Look at the walls, they are all damaged. When you use the toilet and try to flush, the excreta would come up after flushing.  People are not coming because of all these challenges. We have gone round announcing the presence of the PHC in the neighbourhood but people are not coming. This whole week, we haven’t seen a patient. Following the situation we have found ourselves, we don’t work at night. When pregnant women come at night, we use to refer them to other places. “We lack basic things we need to do our work.  We always put drugs in cartons which we place on a bench. We need tables, trawleys and medical equipment. We always  go  and collect vaccines  because we don’t have a fridge to keep them.    We need freezer to protect the vaccines. What happens most often is that we would go and collect the vaccines and return them at the end of the day to prevent them from going bad. The government should act urgently in order to avert a situation where the people would completely resort to self-medication and seeking help from quacks. Robbery attacks ground another health centre Another area  in the ancient city  that the residents have been forced to  resort to seeking medical help from quacks  is the Oke Offa  Community located in Ibadan North East Local Government Area. Unlike the Atipe Health Centre that is still partially functional, the Oke Afa  Primary Health Centre, Irefi, is completely grounded. The facility, which was said to be optimally functioning, was said to have closed down after some robbery attacks. Some of the residents who spoke with The Nation, feared that danger could be looming with the manner many people  resort to seeking unempirical treatment for their health challenges. “The condition we have found ourselves is regrettably dangerous because people now take whatever they get and visit anywhere they see for treatment.  Many women who would ordinarily go for antenatal checks at the health centre because of its closeness no longer do that. Many of them now visit  spiritual homes or rely on local herb sellers for help. The cost of talking sick family members is another issue. Some of our people don’t have the money to transport themselves to another community to seek medical help. “They by so doing keep such sick persons at home and apply all manner of questionable treatment on them. That was never the case when our health centre was functional. Residents could easily trek there and get treated with the support of the community leaders,”  a resident, who gave his name as Abayomi, said. Another resident, who gave his name simply as Sunday, expressed concern that a new wave of health challenges may be looming in the area following the way some people recklessly  consume concoctions to take care of their health challenges. “We enjoyed unhindered access to healthcare when the health centre was operational but that is no longer the case. When the health centre was functional, the community leaders would mobilise mothers to take our children there for every available vaccination. But that is no longer happening. The development has made many of our people who naturally would not want to go to the hospital to stay back and take anything that comes their way as medical help. ” Also bemoaning the fate of the PHC, a community leader and treasurer of the Irefin Babasale CDC, Chief Okeloye Timothy, recounted how the community leaders invested their resources and time to establish the health centre. “We started the PHC for the good of our people. Before now, a former chairman of the community gave us a room and a parlour in his own property to use as health centre. Almost immediately, the place started growing as nurses were sent from Ibadan North East Local Government. Aside from nurses, they also gave us beds, tables and other basic things that the PHC needed to thrive. “When the room and parlour became inadequate for the number of people going there for medical help, the popular Alalade family here in Ibadan gave us a whole building free of charge. They only asked us to acknowledge them by indicating that it was donated by them. We did exactly that as you can see their name boldly written on the building.  When the place became operational, people started coming from far and wide. It was doing so well that health officers were coming from Abuja to conduct trainings and also give lectures to the health workers,” he said. Asked how the PHC was being funded, he said: “We were using our community resources to fund all the activities because aside from giving us nurses and some few materials, no other form of support came from the government. As big as the PHC was becoming, there was no water supply of any kind in the premises. The nurses go about with buckets and other containers searching for water. “They travel over a long distance to get water. They would have been saved all that stress if the government back then had deemed it to complement our effort by providing water for the PHC. There was a time that robbers broke into the PHC. That happened because there was nobody complementing the efforts of the CDC. They stole the meter and also removed the wires used to connect light into the PHC. After succeeding the first time, the robbers came again the second time and carted away virtually all the valuables in the PHC. One day, the nurses parked everything that was remaining in the place and left without telling us.” Shocked by the nurses’ action, the elderly community leader said: “We later confronted  them because a good part of what they went away with was procured with by us but they ignored us. The nurses who worked before the centre parked up informed us that there were signs that the building was falling apart and about to collapse. We are sad about the plight of pregnant and nursing mothers in the community.  Many of the residents go anywhere they deem fit for treatment unlike before when we can sensitise and mobilise them to go for medical checks at the defunct PHC. Today, our women now go to herbalists, traditional birth attendants and churches to put to bed. We are working very hard to see how this PHC could be revived for the health needs of our people. Our people no longer enjoy all available vaccinations that were readily available to them in the past. All health benefits to our people are gone. This is regrettable. We will be meeting with the new governor, Seyi Makinde, for assistance. Hospital without equipment, workers at Ibadan North Checks around Oje Igosun and Yemetu areas of Ibadan North Local Government revealed  how the residents have been denied easy access to healthcare services even when  they have a newly built  Primary Health Centre in the neighbourhood. Findings revealed that the PHC is a constituency project. Documents available have the name of the University Teaching Hospital (UCH) as the agency in charge of the facility. The facility has remained under lock since it was completed. According to the residents, hoodlums have begun to mill around the building and could soon begin to vandalise it. “We sincerely don’t know why the facility has not become operational. When we  were told what the structure is meant for, we were very glad because it would make us have easy access to healthcare.  They are yet to commence work since they completed it. UCH officials have come here promising that they would soon start work but they are nowhere to be found. “Area boys use the environment as base for smoking Indian hemp. Before you know it, they would begin to vandalise the building and pilfer the materials. There is a well in front of the building that has not been properly fixed. It poses great danger to kids who play around the area because they could fall into it. The earlier they make the facility operational the better for us as residents and the government, considering the money spent there,” a resident who preferred anonymity, said. UCH management endlessly delays response Contacted last week to know why the PHC has not been operational, the Public Relations Officer of UCH, Akintoye Akinrinlola, fumed that he was asked to provide response within a short time, threatening to do a rejoinder before the report was published. After sending details of the project and the building to his email, Akintoye replied: “Good evening Mr. Duru. I received your email message to me. I have gone through the issues raised. My CMD is currently out of town and I have to take permission from him to respond to the issues. Furthermore, I need to ask all relevant departments the situation of things on the issues. After that, I will get back to you. Kindly bear with us please.” When this reporter reached out to him during the week, he promised to get the response ready by Thursday. When the reporter pleaded that the response should come on Wednesday,  Akintoye requested that the reporter should call him on Wednesday morning to remind him about it. This reporter did as agreed and Akintoye said they were working on it and that it would be provided as soon as they were done. No response was heard from the institution that day. When a call was put to his mobile line on Thursday morning, Akntoye said: “Innocent, lease, I have not done it. I am seriously upset. Give me time. I don’t want to talk to you in a way you won’t like. Please, please, please.” Our plans for PHCs – Oyo govt Oyo State Health Commissioner,  Dr Bello, said the current state government is not resting on its oars in making sure that  PHCs in the state are functional. He said: “Knowing that health is one of the major pillars of this government, we are following a programme that is called Primary Healthcare Under One Roof.  That has brought into place the combination of both primary health centres  and Oyo State Health Insurance Scheme. “Actually what bedevilled the issue of primary health centres  was the non-functionality of the local governments  as an entity  in the past eight years.  But now, all that has been concentrated under the primary health care  development agency and the  person in charge is Dr Olatunji.  They are now developing a primary health care centre per local government  per month. “However, for those centres that have keyed into the health care insurance programme,  they will have enough money from their enrollees to be able to on their own be able to improve on their facilities.  With the  insurance scheme, most of these health facilities can easily be provided for through the Oyo State Health Insurance Scheme.” The government, according to him, has released all the necessary  counterpart funds. “ In fact, the Senate and other federal agencies are looking into healthcare development agencies.Just a week a go, we had a retreat in Abuja and we actually thank our senators and our House of Assembly members and everybody  who were there physically. “What we are observing  now is not just the issue of the government but that of the laxity of our people.  If the people using them buy in into the projects, vandalisation, theft, and so many other things wouldn’t have happened. “All we now need do is more than equipping any centre.  It is to ensure that the level of awareness of our people is taken care of.  They should be made to know that this thing belongs to them. There is no entity called public, we are all public.  They should be made to guide jealously whatever the government provides for them.  If we repair them, the same story will repeat itself. That is why we want to put it under one roof and let people guide it by themselves. Health education is very important and paramount.” He added: “With the present partnership (PPP) that the government is actually lookin into, healthcare development programmes will not need to be fund recycling. That is why it looks like when we do budget annually,  it seems we are repeating the same thing every year because our people don’t take care of it and the things would have to be refurbished, and  replenished. But right now, we willll let them know  that attention is given to you, take care of these things. “For the capitation paid in by the enrollees, the centre can be improved. For those centres that have very good enrollees,   even the agency had employed nurses  and doctors on their own and not by government. Those ones know that they are committed to the very centres to which they are employed  and knowing that they are working with the agency,  the efficiency is better than those that would say  I am state employed. So far so good, I will call the attention of the individuals concerned when I take a look at those places you have mentioned.Thank you very much for your interest and by the grace of God, we would step up the health education and awareness of people in our society.” Speaking on the PHC affected by open defecation, the commissioner said: “Can a stranger come and be defecating in the canal located in the community?  We should be our brothers’ keepers. I have told you the mentality of ‘it doesn’t belong to anybody’.  It was during the colonial and post-independence era that government catered for everything and all we could do was to reproduce. “When we ask people to come for polio vaccination, they would say, when are they finishing and when would they leave?  They would go to the market and leave a preventive health measure.  When UNICEF introduced polio plus,  that is after you bring a child for vaccination, they would give you a box of matches. “It is then that a woman would go into the community and call other  women that they are sharing matches.  Then they will all bring their children to collect match boxes  They attach more value to the match boxes they are collecting than the health and future of their children.”