By Asiwaju Deji Fasuan MON, JP Ado Ekiti. SIR: The hysterics and tone are unbelievable; the whole media are engulfed in it. Most professionals, lawyers, human rights pretenders make the headlines. It is as if Nigeria was at the war front, facing equally menacing opponents. Even otherwise respectable legal minds are daily competing with noise makers and street handouts to protest unwarranted assault on human rights. It all looks like the last days of colonization when the British imperialists were packing out of Nigeria. What is all this about? It is about a conflict between a politician and some law enforcement agents. It is about display of raw power and authority. It is about professionals who want to show their indispensability in our society. But this country has outgrown these childish street displays. We need to know some facts. Some political arithmetic. Our man, the focus of all the encounter, a bonafide Nigerian, nursed ambition to bid for the highest position in the land. He legitimately put himself up, contesting as a presidential candidate of a lawful political party. He was not denied the chance to bid nor was there any encumbrances placed on his way. He went to the polls and scored close to 48,000 votes as a presidential candidate. Several others made the bid, scoring such varying, some would say ridiculous figures. The highest in the contest made the millions. That is democracy. Nobody went to the streets, blocking main roads and calling for hell to descend down on the country. The one who felt cheated or whose votes have been stolen went to court and the courts told him he was wrong. It is then not surprising that one who is at the very bottom of the league feels so badly that he could invite disaster and mayhem on a nation that has deprived him of its leadership? If he feels so, why must all of us rush to the streets, proclaiming disaster and mayhem ….? More importantly, why should a government or its organs fold their hands as if the world around is serene and safe? Our democracy is working. All elements and layers of the polity are functioning. But we have to note a section of the society or organ of the democratic system should not be blackmailed-on the altar of free speech or freedom of association. Some of these displays we witness on the television nearly every night are certainly uncalled for. These acts do not belong to this age. The actors and perpetuators know themselves. You can continue to make good names without giving cheap or making scenes that will attract funny ideas every day. It is amusing to see lawyers who dominate the right, the center and the left of the political spectrum shout unnecessary political jargons each night, just to demonstrate that on the civil rights issue, “we are all together”. Such actions belong to high school children or university students who have seen or heard very little beyond their lecture theaters. People who have seen the wider world should demonstrate good judgment and be more realistic.  Today, there are many things to complain about beyond deliberate political slogans which are meant to pull wool on our face. Nearly all the roads crisscrossing the length and breadth of our country are bad, worse than any other time in our life time. The road network has been made worse by a protracted, heavy rainfall and predictions are that the next rainy season will be worse. Second, power supply to most parts of Nigeria is becoming worse by the day. There is no proof that any improvement is ahead. Worse is the security situation in the country. No one is safe on our roads. Movements on our roads are measured, calculated and unsure. Are these not more important and more engaging than the interest of one who did not make one percent of popular votes to now involve all of us in an unnecessary social warfare. Let us sit down and think. Today in Nigeria, eight out of 10 university graduates are out of gainful employment. Graduate teachers have no school to teach. Should these not bother our free wheeler socialists rather than shouting and disturbing the peace of ordinary Nigerians? The constant cries and appeals to the outside world –the United States, the United Nations, NATO, the UK e.t.c to save us from our government indicate nothing but immaturity and outright stupidity. These other nations and organizations have their problems to the seam. They only see us as “Third World” people whose understanding of international relations is low. Sure there are many obnoxious things to complain about. What of the ministers, who were governors, who were senators, who were honourable members and who are now drawing millions of naira in addition to their current pay as ministers. Should Nigeria disintegrate because of the failure of one man, for one man to realize his ambition? Unfortunately and unwittingly the socialist are doing exactly what they accused the politicians of doing, recruiting the judiciary.  