By Abdulwasiu Mujeeb and Abdulwaheed Sofiullahi Students of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) have bemoaned the new academic calendar. The UDUS Senate at its 334th meeting approved the 2019/2020 academic calendar. The calendar, which extends the resumption date of the school from December 9, to January 6, 2020 has been described by many students as unfavourable. Reacting to this, Abdullahi, a 500-Level Medical Laboratory Science student, expressed disappointment over the calendar, referring to it as “backwardness.” “I am disappointed with the 2019/2020 academic calendar released by the management. They should try to continue it the way it was last session. This is backwardness, as our calendar was faster before ASUU strike arose.” Abdullahi advised the management to amend the calendar. “I urge the management to please find a solution to it.” Fatima, a student of Veterinary Medicine, bemoaned the four weeks first semester break and the three weeks for registration of new and returning students. “It would be very slow to spend four weeks for a semester break. The number weeks for the registration for returning and new students are too much. They should be considerate,” she lamented. Fatima also urged the school management to amend the calendar. “I urge the management to amend the calendar. They should pity us that are reading six-year courses.” In his own reaction, Ismaila Suleiman Khalifah, a 300-Level student of Education and Islamic studies, expressed shock over the extension of the holiday. According to him, the school will be lagging behind in terms of academic stability. “I was shocked and amazed as to why the school calendar would be changed like this. We don’t understand the reason behind the extension of the holiday. “Seeing this calendar, unlike when we were affected by strike. The school would be lagging behind in terms of academic stability.” Khalifa urged the management to amend the calendar to maintain its position as one of the schools in the North with fast academic calendar. “I urge the management to please adjust the calendar, for this university is one of the fastest universities in the northern part of this country, some years back. I wish the university to remain raising the standard.” Also, Muhammed Aminu Ismaila, a student of Chemistry said the calendar was unfavourable. “I personally felt unexcited when I saw the newly approved 2020/2021 academic calendar. While the last calendar kept our mindset in peace that we are going to resume on  November 9. Now, the backwardness of the calendar was revealed.” However, while many students called for its amendment,  a few of them praised the university for the calendar. Adeleke Abdulrahman, a 300-Level Education Mathematics student, sees no wrong in it. He said the long calendar was the best way for students to understand what they are being taught in class. “The calendar is not bad. The management did so well by adding three months to the calendar and that the best way through which students could understand what they are being taught in class,” he said. Olookoba Abdulwasiu, a 300-Level Law student, acknowledged the university’s decision on the calendar. According to him, the calendar was planned in a cool manner and that should not trigger negative reactions from students. 