In this festive period, do you care for acne-free, wholly lucid, silky smooth and healthy looking skin, despite the unkind weather? Look no further! These do-it-your-self fruits mixtures are guaranteed to see you through this dry and dusty season. How healthy one’s skin is, is the first step towards an excellent supple body. But how you maintain your skin will determine how healthy it can go all year round, especially in this unpleasant weather period. It is very necessary that you take special care of your skin in order for it to look radiant and beautiful. So, you need to take extra measures to protect your skin against harsh weather because the dry and harmattan season brings about other problems for the skin. To keep your skin healthy and protect it against the harsh weather, you must make sure it is supple and full of moisture to avoid cracking and dryness. Drink plenty of water as this will hydrate the skin For oily skin Squeeze the gel from one clove/leaf of Aloe Vera, mash it and mix with one tablespoon of olive oil. Dry skin moisturizer Mix the fleshy part of an avocado pear with one tablespoon of honey; grind the mixture until it becomes smooth; apply the solution on the skin and leave for 20 minutes. Then wash it off. All skin type moisturizer Add two drops of lavender essential oil to one ounce of jojoba oil and massage into the skin. Honey and tomato cleanser Mix tomato mash with honey; mix together and apply to the skin after you must have showered, Then rinse with water Velvety cleanser Mix equal amounts of jojoba oil and coconut oil and then double the mixture with water. Shake thoroughly before use. The cleanser will emulsify the dirt without stripping your face’s oils. Egg yolk and honey mask Mix one tablespoon of almond oil, one tablespoon yogurt and one egg yolk and apply on the face. Banana facial mask for dry skin Crush a quarter of a ripe banana and mix with half a cup of natural yogurt and one tablespoon of honey. Apply the mixture on the face and neck and leave for 20 minutes. Then wash with water. Exfoliant Simply mix finely ground oats and almonds or almond oil with enough extra virgin olive oil for the mixture to fuse without crumbling. Rich toner Simply add honey to tomato juice until it becomes sticky and then apply this to your face and neck for between 25 to 30 minutes. The result will be a cleaner complexion with improved skin tone.