Inadequate health care facilities have remained issue of discussion over the years. However, there seems to be hope for the better as the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), a body that oversees primary health care centres in the country, seems set to change the narrative, writes ONYEDI OJIABOR  Primary health care centres are regarded as important arm of the health care delivery system in the country. Any wonder discussions on efficient health care delivery system in Nigeria have, more often than not, revolved around dilapidated primary health care facilities. It is believed that the overarching significance of primary health care centres stem from their grassroots nature, as they are closest to the people, especially rural dwellers. That health care facilities have remained issue of discussion over the years may be due to the fact that most of them are really in bad shape. While some stakeholders look at primary health care centres as drain pipe to siphon funds, others prefer to call them the sick baby of the health care delivery value chain. It is the view of some stakeholders that if primary health care centres perform beneficially, the general and teaching hospitals will have fewer patients to attend to. It is also true that due to the near comatose state of most primary health care centres, anybody with a little illness-fever, cough, catarrh and diarrhea rush to the general hospital or even the teaching hospital for medical attention. The result is that most general and teaching hospitals have many patients which they are unable to cope with. That may be why a health facility as strategically located as the National Hospital; Abuja could give a patient in dire need of medical attention up to six months’ appointment. The Eighth Senate conducted a series of public hearings on ways to reposition the health care centres. A former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewale, was at a point, invited to discuss how to breathe life into the primary health care centres in parts of the country. Senate votes and proceedings contained some of the suggestions made by the minister about how to move the primary health care centres forward. It appears not much was achieved from the parliamentary intervention. However, there seems to be a silver lining in the horizon for the beleaguered primary health care centres across the country. The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), a body that oversees primary health care centres in the country, seems set to turn things around with its refrain of “enough is enough.” Executive Director, NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib, stated the readiness of the agency to tackle the problems of primary health care centres head on. For Shuaib, it’s no longer business as usual in the country’s primary health care centres. Giving what could pass as the score card of the agency in Abuja, the Executive Director harped on transparency and accountability as the agency moves to reposition primary health care centres across the country. With what seemed a mark of fulfilment, Shuaib declared that Nigeria is steadily progressing towards certification as a free-polio country by June, 2020, especially as the country is approaching three years without any case of wild polio virus. The agency, Shuaib said, is currently rethinking the way primary health care programmes are managed while setting accountability along four visions. The visions, he listed, include sustaining the tempo for the country to be declared polio-free, driving routine immunisation rate up to 84 per cent, providing direction on primary health care revitalisation and improving image, strengthening governance and accountability. “The programme has been successful in interrupting the transmission of wild polio virus but we are not relenting, until Nigeria is certified polio-free,” he said. On the vision to drive immunisation up to 84 per cent by 2028, Shuaib said the agency was making progress on vaccine supply chain and R1 service delivery, “and we are beginning to see gradual improvement in immunisation coverage”. As part of the agency’s effort to prevent polio, Shuaib said Nigeria has aggressively responded to circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus type2 (cVDPV2) transmission-based on evolving epidemiology. With support from the Global Task Force on Cholera Control, the agency said it has vaccinated a total of 1,296,721 people in hotspot local government areas in Yobe, Borno, Adamawa and Kebbi states between September 1 and 16, 2019. Shuaib put the maternal mortality rate in the country at 576/100.000 live births while neonatal mortality rate is 38/1,000, eight per cent of the global total.  Stating that an estimated 70 per cent of the deaths are preventable, he lamented the 132/1000 under-five mortality rate, which adds up to about one million deaths per year. Shuaib admitted that despite some progress made by his agency, the health system in the country is beset with numerous challenges with resultant poor health indices. He promised to change the unsavoury narrative by working to ensure that Nigerians get the best in primary health care delivery. Obviously, it has become imperative for stakeholders to rethink and retool the primary health care delivery system to ensure better management and accountability.  Facts and Figures  The four-point vision enunciated by the agency would involve scaling up a comprehensive approach to addressing health issues and prioritisation of high impact pragmatic interventions. The agency would also need to scale up input and processes to focus on system outputs and outcomes. It must move from poor data management, monitoring and evaluation to performance management and accountability mechanisms. The NPHCDA has indicated its desire to move away from fragmented approach within departments, agencies and across partners, to cross-cutting and pragmatic approach aligned under one agenda. It is, however, worrisome that Nigeria makes up about two per cent of the world’s population but accounts for 14 per cent of the global maternal death ratio. It should also be a matter of concern that one in every eight Nigerian children dies before their fifth birthday while nearly 10 per cent of new born deaths occur in the country. Nigeria should equally work to drastically reduce the average daily loss of about 2,300 under-five children and 145 women of child bearing age. Measures should be taken to scale up demand for critical services, which are considered very low and largely driven by a loss of confidence in the system. Only about 38 per cent of women are said to have accomplished births while 58 per cent have ANC. Time may be running out for the country to catch up with the rest of the world in its primary health care delivery value chain. The maternal mortality rate of 576/100,000 live birth, neonatal mortality rate of 38/1,000 and under five mortality rate of 132/1,000, do not depict a country serious with its health care delivery system. Again, with 40,000 health facilities dotted all over the country, although with different levels of functionality, Nigerians, especially those living in the rural communities, should be able to access quality health care delivery. The NPHCDA may have declared its resolve to tackle the problems of the primary health care centres to make them functional and efficient, what Nigerians want are health facilities that work. 