By Adekunle Jimoh, Ilorin  Constant advocacy and awareness on the dangers inherent in hard drugs use will reduce mental illness in the society, wife of Kwara state Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, Olufolake has said. She said that there are concerted efforts by the current administration in the state and her office to ensure increased advocacy and awareness to stem use of hard drugs and other depressive tendencies. She urged all stakeholders to lend their voices to reducing drugs abuse and illicit trafficking. Mrs. AbdulRazaq charged parents and guardians to be vigilant and be conscious of what their children and wards involve themselves in. The governor’s wife used the occasion to present gift items and cash to inmates of psychiatric and less privileged homes in the state as part of end of the year visitation. Mrs. Abdulrazaq, through her pet project, Ajike Peoples Support, visited Olorunda trado-medical psychiatric home, School for Special Needs and Children Reception Centre, Ilorin, where food items and other materials were presented to inmates.  Mrs. Abdulrazaq hailed Olorunda Trado Psychiatric home for taking care of the needs of these mentally challenged individuals and providing an atmosphere where they can observe and complete their healing process. At the School of Special Needs, the wife of the governor, said that educating students with special needs is a way to address their individual differences towards achieving a higher level of self-sufficiency and success in the school and their communities. “You are all special and unique in your own ways and I commend your teachers for bringing your individuality to bear in their teaching procedures. I assure you that the state government is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that this institution is repositioned for sterling performance, this fact is evident in the recent presentation of instructional materials to the school by the state government”, she said. She called on public spirited individuals and organizations to support effort of government in raising standard of education in the state, urging the students to be of good conduct and always obey constituted authority in and outside the school. In her speech at the children reception Centre, Mrs. Abdulrazaq said that she would continue to drum up support for the home, adding that government alone cannot solve all the challenges. “I, hereby, call on individuals, societies and organizations to always remember these children in their programme and activities. Food items, home utensils even scholarships to these children would go a long way in shaping their future. “As I am in your midst today to share with you the good tidings this season brings, I want to enjoin you not to put limitations to your dream. “I urge you also to be good and obedient children to your care givers and on a similar note I urge the care givers too to be conscious of these children’s sensitivities and ensure that are shielded from any form of abuse at all times”, she said.