MEMBERS of Administration graduates, 98 set, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, have commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing some of their colleagues into his cabinet. At a dinner organized in Abuja to celebrate their collegues who are currently serving in this current  administration,  speaking in his welcome address , the chairman of the dinner organising committee, Mr. Akagwu Michael Arome, who is also the CEO of West Link Airlines showered encomium on President Buhari for tapping the potential of the young at heart by the appointing some of his classmates into his cabinet. “My heart leaps with joy every time an announcement of credible Nigerians into offices and one of us was on the list. This has shown that our sacrifices to reach the top through a rigorous and disciplined institution such as Ahmadu Bello University did not go in vain. We have been blessed with a federal minister, a House of Representative member, a State House of Assembly member, Local Government Chairman among others. “We appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari and other stakeholders in their drive to bring the best on board. However, just like Oliver Twist, we want more”. Arome also commended some of their former lecturers who impacted meaningfully into their lives for rendering selfless service and as mentors of men. Among those that received award at the dinner included, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouk, the federal minister of humanitarian affairs, disaster mmanagement; Barr. Aliyu Abdullahi, Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Office of the First Lady Federal Republic of Nigeria;  Mr. Apera Iorwa, National Coordinator, National Social Safety Net Coordinating Office, Abuja;  Hajia Hadiza Hamza, Managing Director, Kaduna State Development and Property Company; Hon. Amiru Tukurs Idris, Member, House of Representatives;  Alhaji Muntari Aminu Bakori, Ag. Chairman, Kaita Local Government Area of Katsina State; Hon. Tijjani Mohammed, Member, Bauchi State House of Assembly The Organising Committee Chairman calls for support for the government to enable the leadership deliver on their promises through dialogue and meaningful contributions to lift the nation up in its drive to eradicate hunger, insecurity as well as to pave a path of comprehensive development agenda for the new generation. 