President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has made great improvement in the delivery of infrastructure such as roads and railways, Minister of State for Works and Housing, Engr Abubakar D. Aliyu, has stated. He spoke at the weekend in Damaturu, Yobe state during a grand reception organised by Yobe state government in his honor and Senate President Ahmad Ibrahim Lawal. “The direct impact of President Buhari administration’s policies and programmes have made great improvement in the infrastructure delivery in terms of provisions of roads, railways, power supply all of which are evident. President Buhari has done so much to correct national direction and place it on the path of for a better future,” he said. The Minister said Buhari is also making great efforts in reviving the national economy from decline, stability and growth. Listing the projects the administration has executed in Yobe, he said:  “We have specifically benefited from construction and completion of Hadejia-Nauru road, ongoing construction of Nguru- Gashua-Bayamari Road, Ngamdu-Goniri, connection of Damaturu to the 33KVA transmission line among others.” Ali said the federal government has recently approved award of contract for the construction of Damaturu-Kaliyari road. Yobe Governor Mai Mala Buni described the minister, who is the immediate past deputy governor, “as a colossus of service to the people.” “From his years as a civil servant to over ten years as a deputy governor, Engr. Abubakar D. Ali has demonstrated what service and respect and loyalty means. In these exemplary, praiseworthy values, he found his compass. And his life story will forever be shaped by them,” he said. Buni said the state celebrates “Engr. Abubakar D. Ali for what he has achieved so far and for all the things that he will continue to do on behalf of the peace and progress of our nation. “We celebrate him for the example he sets and the inspiration he provides to so many young people who are mirroring and projecting themselves in him, and imagining themselves soaring to higher places if they commit to the values that define his life – loyalty, patience, and service to the people.” Buni decorated the minister with a sword and the Holy Quran as one of the two worthy sons of Yobe state.