By John Austin Unachukwu  THE Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Young Lawyers Forum (NBA-YLF) Ilorin has honoured a former national Legal Adviser of the  NBA, Chief R.O. Balogun and other lawyers for their contribution to the association’s development. The event occurred during the association’s Dinner and Awards Night which held recently in Ilorin. Chief Balogun, a former Chairman of the branch, was honoured alongside Manzuma Issa, Taiye Oniyide, John Dada, J.S. Muhammad, among others Balogun, another former  NBA Ilorin Chairman, Mr Manzuma Issa and former chairperson International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) Kwara, Chief Mrs Oluronke Bolarinwa Adeyemi, received awards of Honour and Recognition from the association. Other honourees included the Head of Chambers (HOC) of Bayo Ojo SAN & Co and  University of Ilorin Don, Dr. Folorunsho Saddam Hussein and  Mr Taiye Oniyide. They were honoured as a reward for their excellent performance in office. Chief Balogun was also decorated as Life Ambassador, YLF Ilorin by the immediate past chairman, O. D Jimoh. Osagbemi Olakunle, Abdulrasheed Abiola Usman, Mrs Maz Usman and Kayode Adeoti, received medals of honour and certificates of recognition. The awardees expressed happiness for the recognition. Balogun said: “I have received over 40 awards, this one is the best. I will continue to do my best for young lawyers and humanity”. Manzuma said: ‘This Award left me with the impression that meritorious service is still recognised in Nigeria. I am further overwhelmed and excited that the recognition is coming from the YLF, Ilorin”. For Oniyide, he was “humbled to have been singled out for this prestige. I’m short of words and thank the leadership of YLF’. Dr. Hussein described the award as “a special one.” He added: “’For me, the award night represents my best outing in the last few months. What a splendid way to end the year. I sincerely thank the leadership of the forum past and present for deeming it proper to nominate and give me the award. It is a sole reason to do more for the forum and I won’t hesitate.”  For J. S Muhammad, “If YLF Ilorin could organise a Dinner and Award Night as you did, with no resources at your disposal, the leadership of YLF is fantastic and wonderful.” Former YLF Ilorin chairman  Jimoh thanked the awardees “for their unflinching support over the years.” He expressed “profound gratitude to the former leaders of the forum, Mr John Mayokun Dada and Mr J.S. Mohammed for their constant support. “Our past leaders made huge sacrifices and contributions to the creation and sustainability of our forum. “They put us on the path of sustainable development.” Jimoh added: “In order to reward them for their contributions, sacrifices and excellent performance, the Executives, under my leadership, decided to honour them with the Award of excellence today at this Award Night.”