Our Reporter  After a ten year hiatus, the Musical Copyright Society Nigeria (MCSN) seems to have bounced back as it held its annual general meeting in Lagos earlier this month. The consensus among members was that with the AGM, the society has rebuilt the confidence they once had in the pioneer society. To most of them it was the sign that MCSN is back and back for good. In attendance were members from Calabar, Port Harcourt, Benin and Abuja. A member of the society, Myke Pam, said that the attendance of the AGM shamed those who hitherto thought MCSN could never recover from the ten year hiatus from copyright administration. “As a longstanding member of MCSN the successful conduct of the AGM has rekindle the confidence we as members once had in the society. It is a statement that our dear society is back and back for good.” Rapper, Eedris Abdulkaeem was emphatic that the worst is over for MCSN “and no Jupiter can ever shake our society again.” Eedris revealed that his likes who refused to join any other society knew that the persecution of MCSN was a temporary thing and that the society will overcome and come back stronger and bigger. “MCSN is back bigger and stronger than 10 years ago,” said the Nigeria Jagajaga star on the AGM. “We are prophets who see the future that is why despite the overtures I refused to withdraw my membership of MCSN. Those who did are today full of regrets.”  According to Joanna star, Felix Duke, it is the Lord’s doing that MCSN which many in the copyright administration sector took for dead could be holding the Annual General Meeting of its members. “What it means is that MCSN is of the Lord and anything or project that has the blessings of the Lord will always be a winner. After years of persecution, MCSN is the winner and the well-attended AGM is the evidence of the divine victory,” said Duke. Orits Williki and the CEO of the Society, Mr. Mayo Ayilaran, earned praises from members for resuscitating the society from near extinction to its present pride of place in the copyright administration sector, in a ten year battle through the National Assembly, the office of the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation and through the Courts up to the Supreme Court. Reacting, Mayo Ayilaran said the commendation from the members of the Society is a tonic that will propel the Board of Directors and Management to work harder in the years ahead in order to ensure that members of the Society shall enjoy from their sweat and creativity.