Retired Super Eagles striker Odion Ighalo has been left out of the contenders for the prestigious African Player of the Year award after the continent soccer ruling body, CAF, yesterday named the top three contenders for all categories. The shortlist of top three nominees for each award category, according to a release by CAF,  was reached following votes from a CAF Technical & Development Committee and a panel of media experts with emphasis on the nominees’ performance during the year under review, 2019. In the award’s blue ribbon, Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah are on the final three-man shortlist for the 2019 CAF African Player of the Year award.  The Liverpool forwards, who helped win the FIFA Club World Cup on Saturday night, are joined by Manchester City and Algeria attacker Riyad Mahrez. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s Barcelona forward Asisat Oshoala is listed for the African Women’s Player of the Year and she will stake her claim for a record fourth title against Ajara Nchout of Cameroon and Thembi Kgatlana of South Africa. The Super Falcons are also in the run for the African Women’s National Team of the Year along with Cameroon and South Africa while erstwhile Swede Super Falcons’ coach Thomas Dennerby is a candidate for the African Women’s Coach of the Year along with Alain Djeumfa of Cameroon and Desiree Ellis of South Africa. The other Nigerian interest at the 2019 CAF Awards is in the African Youth Player of the Year with two nominees including in-form Lille striker Victor Osimhen and velvet Villarreal winger Samuel Chukwueze. Super Eagles’ coach Gernot Rohr only recently hinted that the Nigerian youngsters have done well in the year under review to be crowned as the best youth player in the continent ahead of the other contender Achraf Hakimi of Morocco. “The two players (Osimhen and Chukwueze) deserve to win the award of the African Youth Player of the Year, they had a great season in Europe,“ the former Bayern Munich defender told NationSport. Apart from the established categories, CAF informed that the 2019 Awards to be held on 7th January 2020 at the Albatros Citadel Sahl Hasheesh, Hurghada in Egypt, would be a celebration of the best with several new award categories in recognition of exceptional contributions to African football and inspiring individuals.