By John Ofikhenua and Elo Edremoda  THE Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) said between September last year and September this year, it recorded products theft and pipeline vandalism, which resulted in a total of 2,146 vandalised points. The state-run oil firm and Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) has signed a settlement agreement on the Escravos Gas-to-Liquid (EGTL) project. CNL’s General Manager, Policy Government and Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn, in a statement on Wednesday , said the agreement will boost domestic gas use across the country. He said agreement was signed December 24, in Abuja by NNPC Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari and CNL chairman, Jeffrey Ewing, represented by NNPC/CNL Joint Venture Director, Monday Ovuede. Under the new pact, the EGTL interest will be aligned with the JV upstream interest at 60per cent for NNPC, while 40 per cent for Chevron which is operator of the asset. Noting the importance of the EGTL asset, Kyari said Chevron will supply an average of 400mmscf/day, an equivalent of 26per cent total domestic gas supply. He pointed out that it will be the highest by any oil multinational in the domestic market. “In all, the EGTL will bring loads of benefit to the Nigerian economy as well as to CNL; energy supply, improved gas utilisation, fiscal receipts and a renewed social licence to operate,” Kyari said. According to NNPC monthly financial report for the month of September 2019 that revealed this added that some of the key setbacks that affected crude oil production in the month were mostly the shut-down of some terminals.  The report noted that in Bonga terminal, “production was shut-down due to framo pump issues with cumulative loss of 226,000 bpd,” during the period under review. NNPC also disclosed that in Ogu Ocha terminal, production was “shut down due to the occupation of our flow station by host communities. Asset Management Team of OML 42 declared Force Majeure on Jones Creek blend. Production cut was 42,000 bpd for  eight days.” Similarly, the report said in Erha terminal, production was shut-in for two days due to maintenance activity and flare management with total loss of 304,490 barrels. During the period under review, according to the report, the Bonny Terminal TNP was shut down for just a day due to leaks from (eight days in August ) with shut-in of 20kbd. NNPC said in the Qua Iboe terminal, there was production shut-in at Usari for six days from  May 25 to June 6 following equipment failure. Likewise, production was shut-in for another six days at Asabo due to maintenance. Cumulative loss of production within the period was 235,000 barrels, said the report. It also noted that at the Anemam Terminal, there was a full field shutdown for three days for the replacement of corroded actuator with total loss of 221,200 barrels.