A group of women, under the aegis of Nigerian Women Association of Georgia (NWAG), has been offering financial assistance to female undergraduates and orphanage homes across the country. GRACE OBIKE reports. It has been said several times that women are the worst enemies of their fellow women and that women do not support one another. This cliche has been repeated so many times that many have come to believe it. Several stories have been told of sometimes outrageous things that young girls, especially those in the university, do to get by. But very little is ever said of how other women might help in setting up girls and other women as a way of supporting the gender. A 500 level student of medicine and surgery at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Hazimat Yusuf, said she is surprised that much is not being done by women to help others. According to her, there is no way anyone can understand a woman’s challenge and problems better than a fellow woman, adding that it is unfortunate that Nigeria has a lot of influential women out there but that a lot of Nigerian women are in miserable conditions. Another medical student, from the University of Benin, Juliet Tawari, explained that she would never have had the chance of getting an education if not for the help from others. She said that her mother is dead and her father, who should have helped out, is a carpenter with arthritis that has badly affected his joints. Marvelous Ejiogu, a 200 level student of applied biochemistry, at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, said that her mother who is a single mother of five and struggling to make ends meet can at least heave a sigh of relief for the next year after she was awarded a scholarship of £300. She said: “It is a one-time scholarship worth £300, which l will use for the payment of fees, hostel fees and textbooks. It is going to relieve my mother who is a single mother taking care of five children all by herself since my father died.” For Marvelous, Juliet and more than 30 other girls, relief is finally coming as a group of women have made it their business to mentor and financially support undergraduate girls across the country. Hazimat Yusuf explained that “I was just in class and saw my classmates filling a form. I asked about it and they convinced me to join them and apply. They asked for the normal recommendation that every other scholarship scheme required; like indigene form, result, recommendations from lecturers. You write an essay and also state why you need the scholarship.  “Unfortunately, all my friends that applied and encouraged me to do the same did not get it. But I did and I was excited when I got the call. I know that I am good but some people are better. So I am so grateful for the opportunity. The money is going to be of great benefit to me. I am a medical student and everyone knows that textbooks for medicine and surgery are very expensive. At times we cannot afford them and we have to settle for soft copies. But there is nothing greater than having your textbooks. Sometimes we have textbooks costing as much as N17,000, N20,000, N25,000 and then you have to have like five or six of them. “I think these women are just God-send, I am surprised that other women don’t do this often. There is no way anyone can understand a woman’s challenge and problems better than a fellow woman. You see men out there doing a lot of things that should be done by women. “Unfortunately, we have a lot of influential women out there but still a lot of Nigerian women are left miserable. We have to do a lot of unnecessary things; things that can probably be avoided if you can get help out there. It takes nothing for women to gather and help other women. You do not have to give a lot. It is the little things that matter because N10,000 can change the lives of a lot of students. With this action from NWAG, my perception of women not supporting women has changed.” On her part, Juliet said, “The scholarship which I have been receiving every year since 2016 has been helpful with my studies at the University of Benin where I study medicine and surgery. My mother is late and my father who is supposed to take care of my education is a carpenter whose work has been limited because he suffers from arthritis and has lost the use of his joints.” The Nigerian Women Association of Georgia (NWAG) which awarded the scholarships has been reaching out to female undergraduates every year. The President of NWAG, Dr Stella Etta, said 13 orphanage homes are being sponsored by the organisation. Etta said that the scholarship entails £300 for each student, which is a little over N100,000 for the girls and £700 for the orphanages, on a budget of £20,000, which includes transportation and accommodation during the award. She added, “We are women, it is not to say that the men or boys do not have issues. But we do what we know best, which is impacting women and girls. Also, we realised that in families with many children, usually the boys get sent to school first before the girls. We also know what girls go through in trying to get money for tuition. So we are trying in our little ways to stop that. “The money is meant to help pay for tuition, buy books and things that need to be done for their schooling. Some of them start businesses with the funds as sustainable income to help themselves and their families. We know that it might not seem like a lot of money but our goal is, rather than increase the amount of money, we would increase the number of recipients. For this year, we are offering the money to 37 students, one per state and the Federal Capital Territory. “We also gave them a task to come up with businesses that can be started with N25,000 and they gave us different ideas. Some of them have gone on to start-up businesses that have become successful.” Hephen Yerima, a 400 level student of English and Literary Studies of the Ahmadu Bello University who has used the money to start up a business, explained that this will be her second time of accessing the funds. She said, “So far, this is my second time accessing the scholarship. My parents can afford to pay for my school fees because it is not that expensive. We pay N19,000 as fees so I used the money I got last year to start a catering business while schooling. I intend to use the second scholarship for this year to boost my business. I was unable to get an oven last year so I used the local method of baking. But I intend to use this money now to buy an oven.” The National Coordinator of NWAG, Mrs Agata Nnaji, said, “I got involved because I am very interested in the welfare of girls and there are many stories out there about how vulnerable young girls are, especially those from indigent families trying to get an education. It is tough enough being a girl and worst being a girl from a poor family and struggling to be able to pay school fees and take care of things. “We want to empower young girls to be more confident and achieve whatever they want in life. They must understand that nobody should be allowed to put them down. This is our 19th year and as at today, we have given scholarships to over 600 undergraduate girls in Nigeria. We are also supporting orphanages. In total, I will say that in Nigeria, we have touched the lives of at least 1000 people. We also use the opportunity to mentor the girls in different aspects of life. What we will like them to do with the money is to use less than N25,000 to start up a sustainable business so that they can think of being entrepreneurs”. 