Nigerian international Kelechi Iheanacho is in the news for not respecting the fair play rule, although the offence wasn’t captured by the Video Assistant Referee (VAR), a mechanical device introduced to world soccer to capture incidents which the ordinary eye missed. The essence of using the VAR is to reduce fouls which affect match results, such as the disallowed goal scored by West Ham’s Antonio  against Southampton. Antonio ran side-by-side with his Saints’ marker, but stylishly propelled the ball with his left hand to gain advantage, before rifling home a rocket-like goal, which was rightly disallowed, thanks to VAR. The referee didn’t see the incident. Antonio was named the Man of the match, even though he didn’t score a goal. Antonio’s assist led to West Ham’s first and only legitimate goal which divided the two sides. Before the second half, precisely in the 34th minute of the first half of the game between Leicester and Norwich, a foul happened, making the visitors to throw the ball to Iheanacho based on the fair play rule. Iheanacho was expected to kick the ball back to Norwich players or kick it to the sideline or anywhere else, but not into the net. He had to make one of these choices to properly re-start the game. But the Nigerian chose the ‘forbidden option’ of trying to score a ‘cheap’ goal.  Iheanacho’s action infuriated the Norwich players which almost resulted in a clash. Norwich players’ reaction was meant to get VAR’s attention such that Iheanacho may have been sent off. A quick-thinking Leicester manager, Brendan Rodgers, pulled the Nigerian out in the 38th minute, irrespective of the fact that the game was Iheanacho’s 100th in the Barclays English Premier League over seven years for two clubs, Leicester and Manchester City. Rather than keep Iheanacho on the pitch to continue the game, Rodgers chose to remove the Nigerian much to the consternation of soccer faithful, who were bemused at the decision. We have seen desperate clubs (especially the losing teams), ignore sprawling players on the turf to score goals. The goals weren’t disallowed. Instead such incidents formed the fulcrum of pundits’ post-match analysis. Shouldn’t Iheanacho have known the fair play rule? Given his experience in the game, he should. But so many things happen on the spur of the moment for most players, Iheanacho inclusive, especially if their teams are desperate to win matches. Burdened by his past experience where he was excluded from most matches, Iheanacho’s mindset is to score goals like he did in the past three matches as a substitute. Little wonder the starting shirt feat could have increased Iheanacho’s adrenalin, with the goalpost within his shooting range. But Rodgers didn’t protect him. He threw the Nigerian out of the game for dubious reasons, which eventually caused Leicester two points, following the drawn game against strugglers Norwich. Non-compliance with the fair play rule isn’t a punishable offence. It’s more or less  a moral  issue, which if respected says a lot about the game – a competition, not warfare. Great stars such as Di Canio made a show of the fair play rule and received global applause and commendation from the world’s soccer ruling body, FIFA, years ago. Di Canio’s gesture in the game between West Ham and Everton was a paradox of sorts because he had previously been banned for pushing a referee to the ground, and in late 1998 he was banned for eight games after pushing referee Paul Alcock to the ground following a red card while playing for Sheffield Wednesday, before he won Fifa’s Fair Play Award for 2001. Di Canio’s career was blighted by controversy until he quit the game. Di Canio was without any doubt a skilful player, with a tremendous knack for scoring spectacular goals. Di Canio was given the award for “a special act of good sportsmanship” in West Ham’s game at Everton on December 16 2000. Everton goalkeeper Paul Gerrard was lying injured in the penalty area when Di Canio received a cross from Trevor Sinclair. Faced with an empty net, Di Canio chose to catch the ball rather than score. A goal then would have almost certainly given the Londoners a 2-1 win.
Di Canio’s case could be understood for a man with a chain of controversies, who needed to change the narrative around his game before he retired. Not so for Iheanacho who is controversial, but cannot believe what has befallen his game since he rose to stardom playing for Nigeria’s U-17 side in 2013. Not many people know that Iheanacho starred for Nigeria as an under-15 player.
It is unlikely that Rodgers would have done a replacement if some of the big boys at Leicester had been involved. Rodgers’ action was a humiliation for Iheanacho. I’m glad that Iheanacho told his manager how disappointed he was about the change. Thumbs up, Iheanacho. Rodgers’ decision to substitute Iheanacho would have been right, if the Nigerian was shown a yellow card for the incident. Besides, the fact that VAR wasn’t consulted in the matter shows clearly how discretional it is in the rule book. Had the fair play rule been sacrosanct, VAR would have been sought to clarify matters and take appropriate action. It was sad that Rodgers chose to throw Iheanacho under the car.
For Iheanacho, lessons have been learned. Perhaps Leicester’s manager should include talks on fair play with his players, before, during and after matches, instead of what he did to the Nigerian.  Sports minister Sunday Dare, on Tuesday, disturbed the eardrums of chieftains of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) when he stressed the need to be more resourceful in the handling of the country’s soccer, which he said was comatose. Dare also described the country’s domestic game as being on crutches, needing its operators to be transparent and tell the world how much Nigeria’s soccer is worth.
Dare didn’t say anything followers of the game haven’t read or heard of. What he sought to reemphasise is the urgent need for the federation to deal with the perception that it is a corrupt body, pointing out that this bad image has grossly jeopardised efforts to make NFF solvent.
Dare’s words were hurting, but that is the best way to talk with people you desire to grow, given the opportunities before them. No firm would do business with any organisation that is dogged by tales of corruption. The only way NFF chiefs can change is to be transparent and rid the place of shady characters.
NFF’s biggest enemies are those who lost elections to become members. The moment they lose out, they turn town criers. I don’t understand why NFF board can’t expose the ills of these turncoats.
According to Dare: “The bad image at all levels of our football, including the organisers of the domestic league cannot attract sponsorship, which is the biggest hub of business. In the eyes of the Nigerian public, the perception that NFF and Nigerian football is corrupt is rife. I have had cause in the past to speak on how perception is everything and the perception around the NFF is not one that will court new partners and sponsors for the federation.
“Even though many of the allegations have not been proven, the atmosphere around football is polluted on account of the negative perception of corruption and we must move quickly to sanitise this. Agreed, the stigma of corruption in NFF predates this board, hence the need for proper accountability and transparency going forward because we must move quickly to change this toxic perception.”
Good talk, honourable minister. The present NFF board members are willing to learn and change their ways. They must take everything you said to heart, beginning with your terse words on how the place can be more accountable. With proper accountability, blue chip firms will do business with the Glasshouse, only if they interface with credible people, who can boost their image. It is critical. 