The Lagos State government on Monday said it is committed to providing the infrastructure required to drive connectivity across the state to improve productivity and enhance an improved living standard or for the people. Speaking yesterday while declaring open this year’s Science Camp at Civil Service Model College, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said it is a fact that technology is presently ruling the world and only those who can effectively use science and technology have limitless opportunities. “In spite of the daily reduction in employment opportunities globally, technology remains one of the highest sources of paid employment and technological savvy individuals are still sought-after across the world. “As a state, we are committed to providing the infrastructures needed to improve internet access and connectivity and making Lagos a 21st century economy. “We recognise the fact that, this is crucial to improving the productivity of our youths and more importantly, the achievement of our smart city project. “This administration will continue to support science, and create enabling environment through policies and initiatives. The creative thinking capacity of our youths can be expressed and productively harnessed through encouragement, capacity building and maximisation of potentials such as being provided at this camp,” Sanwo-Olu said. Represented on by the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mr Hakeem Fahm, the governor said the goal of the administration to achieve technological advancement can only be realised if the study of science subject in schools is encouraged. According to him, the administration from inception recognised the importance of science technology and had since incorporated it as part of its policy thrust. He recalled that a few weeks ago, the state government commemorated the World Science Day for Peace and Development highlighting the important role of science in society and the need to engage the wider public in debates on emerging scientific issues. Sanwo-Olu said the initiative aligns with the THEMES agenda of the present administration which calls for inclusive scientific research towards enhancing good governance and improving the skills and knowledge of citizens in making informed decisions. “The THEMES Agenda of this administration emphasised the need to equip students with the knowledge and skills for the 21st century and in line with this agenda adequate attention would be given to providing well equipped science laboratories in our schools,” he said.