By KOLADE ADEYEMI, Kano  Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has again reaffirmed that his administration will ensure that every child in Kano get the free, compulsory and qualitative education been implemented in the state . Ganduje disclosed this on Saturday night, while receiving the Kano Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Correspondents’ Chapel Award of Excellence and Appreciation as the Father of Modern Free Education in Nigeria 2019. Ganduje emphasized his desire to ensure that Almajarai in the state benefit from his free, compulsory basic and secondary education policy, even though most of them are children from neighbouring states. He described the status of Kano as the state with the highest number of out-of-school children in the country, saying “it is a challenge that must be faced and defeated.” According to him, with the free school feeding programne and free education policy in place, all children in Kano now have the privilege to be educated, just as he charged parents to take advantage of this opportunity to send their wards to school for a better future. He expressed delight over the award given to him by the Kano NUJ Correspondents’ Chapel, adding that, “we are happy that you identified with the heavily-loaded statement we made here in Kano, which is free, compulsory basic and secondary education for our children. “We are happy we are sending our children to school free-of-charge. We are happy that we are sending the Almajarai to go and learn just like other children. We want to live a legacy; and we believe that journalists are our partners in progress.” Ganduje who was visibly excited, recalled how he met and recruited his Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, who was two-time President of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), into politics. According to him, “I have been partnering with journalists in all my public life. My present Commissioner of Information was the Chairman of Kano Council of the NUJ when I was the Commissioner for Works. “Then, I discovered him and saw him as someone that can work with me. He climbed up to the position of NUJ Deputy President (North-West), he later become NUJ President, did his second-term and also headed the African Union of Journalists. “I tell you this story, not because he is working for me, but because he used his wealth of experience to assist me. NUJ is very important and indispensable in the art of governance. “Journalists are part of governance. You criticize us. You criticize our policies, and you make us get down to work. Sometimes, your reports get us angry, sometimes your reports make us laugh. But in all, you put us on our feet and always remind us of the mandate we have with the people. Indeed, you are partners in progress and we will continue to partner with you for the development of our dear state and the welfare of the good people of Kano state.”