Widows and farmers are being empowered in the Niger Delta for them to contribute more meaningfully to societal development, writes Southsouth Bureau Chief, BISI OLANIYI.  It is so painful for wives to lose their husbands, while it is more pathetic for the widows, if they are not adequately empowered to take good care of themselves and their children. In order to positively impact the lives of widows and farmers in the Niger Delta, the Total Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited (TEPNG) and its joint venture partner, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), on December 10 this year, decided to organise economic empowerment for people of communities in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 58 at the Obite  civic centre in Egi Clan, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local  Government Area (ONELGA) of Rivers State. OML-58 covers five Rivers State LGAs of ONELGA, Ahoada East, Emohua, Ahoada West and Ikwerre. Egi Women Welfare Association President, Mrs. Chioma Umesi, who spoke at the presentation of empowerment items (high-yielding oilpalm  seedlings from Malaysia and African giant snails with cages), said it was noteworthy that TEPNG and NNPC decided to remember the women, especially the widows and farmers. Umesi also hailed the oil giant and NNPC for the great opportunities of being adequately empowered, while calling for its sustenance. Oilpalm Growers’ Association of Nigeria Chairman, Elder Andrew Egbelu, in his remarks, urged younger persons to go into agriculture, which he described as highly lucrative and very rewarding. Egbelu, a former Rivers Comissioner for Commerce and Industry (1989-1990), who also chairs OML-58 Oilpalm  Growers’ Association, described Total as farmers’ friend, which has been putting smiles on the faces of those involved in agriculture in the area. The ex-commissioner said: “Snail farming is lucrative. Feeding snails is very easy and so cheap, because they eat waste items or products. The Federal  Government of Nigeria, through the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) anchor borrowers’ scheme, has billions of naira to support oilpalm farmers, who should key in and take advantage of the rare opportunity. It is really unfortunate that oilpalm production was forgotten in Nigeria with the boom in crude oil and gas. “Hybrid of oilpalm can produce 24 bunches, which will easily bring more money to the farmers. TEPNG is redirecting and refocusing oilpalm production in the Niger Delta to empower people of the host communities. Total is trying, but it can still do more, because there is always room for improvement. The oil company should also consider assisting the farmers with small mills to process the palm fruits.”  Egbelu also described oilpalm production as capital intensive, thereby needing the support of governments, companies, individuals and other critical stakeholders in order to end to the shameful importation of palm oil. Total’s OML-58 Community Relations Manager, Olivier Michel, a French, while speaking, urged the farmers to forget about making easy money, stressing that the era of having free money had gone. Michel noted that the oil giant decided to be sponsoring economic empowerment programmes for people of its host communities in order for them to be free and not to continually beg, while assuring that the oil firm would always be involved in sustainable development.  Total’s Deputy General Manager, Community Affairs and Development, Port Harcourt District, James Urho, disclosed that it was the first time that the laudable programme, aimed at empowering snail widow-farmers would be holding in OML-58 communities. Urho, who was represented by TEPNG’s Manager, Business and Enterprise Development, Patrick Idoko, pointed out that for many years, it was an annual programme for the company to encourage and empower farmers in its OML-58 host communities. He said: “We are here (Obite) again to continue in our desire to challenge ourselves to the positive reinforcement of our commitments on sustainability of agricultural programmes. “The ceremony is symbolic, because we are going to officially empower (training, rearing and supplying) of point of lay African giant – Achatina Marginata – snails and cages to 160 widows drawn from all the sixteen Egi communities. We are also distributing improved oilpalm seedlings to 21 families from Egiland. “The decision by TEPNG to introduce the programme for Egi widows is to encourage them in their state to enable them cater for the innocent children that have been impacted by insurgency in the various communities, while in the same vein boost the agricultural development of the communities. “In introducing the scheme, we are building on the various programmes in agriculture extension services, which we introduced and are pleased to note are yielding positive effects in the lives of the people. We wish to say that TEPNG is willing and ready to partner with dedicated farmers who genuinely want to key into the agricultural dream in OML-58 communities.” He also admonished all beneficiaries of the empowerment programmes to make good use of the inputs to become very successful in their fields, thereby encouraging the oil company to see the need to do more. Urho recognised the roles of other partners in the laudable programmes, particularly the Community Development Committees (CDCs), clan heads, opinion and women leaders in Egi Kingdom for their contributions and warm reception, which he said had made the implementation of the remarkable initiatives a huge success. More widows and farmers in the Niger Delta and other parts of Nigeria will be adequately empowered,  if other companies, especially the multinationals, can emulate Total, thereby putting an end to militancy, piracy, pipeline vandalism, kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism and prostitution, among others, since an idle hand is the devil’s workshop. 