SIR: There is anxiety over the dwindling foreign direct investment in Nigeria going by the recent statistics by the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Over the years, FDI has become the most important source of external resource inflows to developing countries. This investment pattern has also become a significant part of capital formation in these countries. Nigeria is one of the economies with great demand for goods and services and has attracted some FDI over the years. FDI is assumed to benefit a developing country like Nigeria, not only by supplementing domestic investment but also in transfer of technology, increase in employment, development of human capital, access to management expertise, economic stimulation, skills, technology and other positive externalities. The recent data released by NBS reveals how the investment inflows into the country have dropped significantly from $5.82bn to $5.36bn in the second quarter of this year. This negative drawback represents about 7.78% in declination. It is sad to note that Nigeria now attracts less foreign investment than Ghana, a country with less population than Nigeria. By implication, Nigeria’s economy can comfortably be said to be heading south as it is clearly underperforming, despite a lot of resources spent by the government on foreign trips and tours to attract foreign capital investment inflow. However, despite the economic advantages, Nigeria is seemed to attract little or no FDI inflows into the country. Nigeria is blessed with enormous human and natural resources to make FDI comfortable, but foreign investors are not coming in. Some of the reasons attributable to the negative economic trend include corruption, insecurity, multiple taxation, disobedience to the rule of law, and high-risk market for investment. Nigeria can adopt to Rwanda’s foreign investment strategy under which Rwanda’s FDI skyrocketed from $800 million in 2007 to $1.675 billion in 2017 when the government provided conducive environment for foreign investors. According to Rwanda Development Board, three sectors that attracted the most investments were construction and real estate ($638 million), followed by mining ($267.3 million) and lastly infrastructure ($203 million). All this comes to the case of industrial management in the nation. I strongly believe industrial management is the surest answer to our economic woes. Nigeria must look into ICT and diversification into agriculture and mining rather than relying on crude oil for revenue. These sectors have high potentials to attract significant foreign private investment inflow in the FDI. Governments can play an important role in promoting and developing its natural resources to encourage more investments in the country. Nigeria needs to juxtapose foreign investment with domestic investment to maintain high levels of income and employment generation. For Nigeria to generate more foreign direct investment, efforts should be made at solving problems of government involvement in business, relatively closed economy, corruption, weak public institutions and global reputation. 