Anthony Joshua picked up the biggest win of his career against Andy Ruiz Jr earlier this month, meaning he was free to enjoy one of the best Christmases he’s ever had. The Nigerian-born Briton heavyweight champ reclaimed his unified heavyweight titles out in Saudi Arabia on December 7, putting on a boxing master class at the Diriyah Arena to rightfully take his place back at the top of the division. Joshua raised a toast to his classy performance on Christmas Day (Wednesday) when he returned to his roots, home being Sagamu-Nigeria, to treat himself to a classy pounded yam with tasty soup to celebrate with mostly family members that he invited around. “I got loads of my family coming over,” he told Sky Sports. “So we had lot of music, I drank supermalt, ate some pounded yam, ate some apple crumble. And then the next day I’m gonna regret it and probably start training again! “That’s just how bad it is with sport because it’s always in the back of your mind. But I must enjoy that win and celebrate Christmas. This is probably one of the first Christmases that I really enjoyed, because that win meant a lot. “So I did enjoy this Christmas.” Boxing fans will be hoping to see Joshua finally lock horns with either Tyson Fury or WBC champion Deontay Wilder in the new year. Despite the fact they could potentially meet in an all-British heavyweight showdown, AJ recently insisted he would be prepared to help Fury prepare for his own clash with Wilder on February 22 by sparring with him. In the midst of the celebration, AJ still found time took time to light up children’s faces this Christmas. Joshua visited the NSPCC centre Boole House in Coventry, to surprise a group of children with a unique Christmas lights switch-on. Jaguar and Joshua teamed up to promote the NSPCC’s ‘Light up Christmas for Children’ campaign by encouraging the public to share their #LightsOn selfie and make a donation to the charity. Joshua’s festively-wrapped prototype Jaguar I-PACE was packed with gifts for the children at Boole House, where he arrived to pose for a #LightsOn selfie to promote the NSPCC’s campaign, and was quizzed by the children about his boxing career. He also toured Boole House to learn about the projects the NSPCC runs for children in the city. Currently only three out of four calls to Childline can be answered due to funding. More than 8,000 counselling sessions were completed over the festive period last year and the NSPCC is expecting an increase in calls this year. Therefore the aim of the #LightsOn campaign is to enable the charity to answer every call. Anthony said: “This can be a really tough time of year for lots of people, so when I heard about the NSPCC’s ‘Light up Christmas for Children’ campaign I wanted to come to Boole House, meet the kids and hear about the incredible work that is done there. “Working with Jaguar Land Rover to give the children such a special surprise was brilliant. It was a privilege to meet them and talk to them about what they can achieve if they set their minds to it” Amanda Synott, NSPCC Community Fundraising Manager in the West Midlands, said: “We launched our new fundraising campaign, ‘Light up Christmas for Children’, to help the NSPCC keep more children safe. Currently, we simply can’t respond to everyone who contacts Childline, but with Anthony Joshua’s help, we hope to be one step closer to raising the money we need to answer every call.” Chris Thorp, Director of Responsible Business at Jaguar Land Rover, said: “This Christmas we wanted to shine a light on the NSPCC’s #LightsOn campaign. We have worked with the NSPCC for more than three decades and have been actively involved in the Coventry and Warwickshire Business Group since 1996. Since its inception, the group has raised £2.75 million for the NSPCC, helping to fund the construction of Boole House and many of its projects.” This Christmas a young person will contact Childline every 25 seconds and currently only three out of four calls can be answered. Coventry and Warwickshire Business Group members including Jaguar Land Rover have raised £2.75m for the NSPCC since 1996.