By Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged Nigerians to live in unity even as it tasked the political leadership on selfless service to the nation. In its goodwill message on this year’s Christmas celebrations, the party appealed to the leaders and the led to use the period to rededicate themselves to exhibiting the virtues of love, forgiveness and selfless service to others and the nation at large. The message, conveyed in a statement by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, observed that many Nigerians are hurting and are not able to celebrate the yuletide the way they used to do in the past. The PDP rued the prevailing biting economic hardship in the country but encouraged the citizenry to keep hope alive by being one another’s keeper, particularly at a time like this. “Our party is deeply disturbed that most Nigerians are celebrating the season under serious economic stress; many did not travel to celebrate with their loved ones because of pervading economic deprivations. “With insecurity and the sorry state of our highways; many have become despondent, they have lost confidence in those who manage the affairs of our nation at the centre and it appears that there is no hope in sight. “However, in the midst of these challenges, Christmas offers a great lesson that all hope is not lost for us as a people and a nation. “The birth of Jesus Christ, at the manger, assures us that God has not given up on us; that no matter how long darkness, with its attendant oppression, economic repression, hunger, violence, abuse of rights and corruption in high places, may appear to endure, light will surely come to our nation as exemplified in the birth of the Savour into the sinful world,” the PDP said. The main opposition party further urged Nigerians to remain united, share in love with one another and bring brotherly succour to those who lack, so that all will partake in the joy of the celebration. The PDP tasked those at the helm of affairs in the country to use the period for serious introspection and show concern to the people by being remorseful, reviewing all harsh and anti-people policies, focus on governance and curtail their excesses so that Nigerians can benefit from the nation’s God-given resources. The party prayed for the stability and prosperity of the nation and wished all Nigerians a blissful Christmas and yuletide celebrations.