Last week, we discussed the functions of the human skin. We also discussed the fact that the environment, individual behaviours (your conducts), your profession or occupation, your food and many others can have significant impact on the health of your skin. We also saw that emotions such as happiness and aging process can be gauged through the skin. Internal diseases may similarly manifest through the skin. Today, we will move away from these generalisations and focus on specific disorders that afflict our skin: the largest organ in human body. Let us take a look at a very common clinical complaint called allergy. Allergy (hypersensitivity) in lay terms, implies that a person is reacting to a substance, condition or event. For example, a person may react to food such as salad or milk. In such a situation, she may have skin eruption, itching, vomiting and even fever. She may become so ill that individual life may be threatened and may require admission in hospital. Similarly, a person may react or be allergic to medications with severe consequences internally and on the skin. Some may react to clothing. There are individuals who react badly to their spouses or partners that they dislike. Such partners become hypersensitive to everything pertaining to the other person. Yet, work places, bad memory may bring bad allergic reactions. Perhaps, one of the commonest causes of allergy is the environment the person finds himself or herself. What causes allergy? Allergic disorder may be due to a variety of causes. The common saying that what is good for the goose is also good for the gander is not true when it comes to allergic illness. An individual “X” and “Z” may take the same substance or be exposed to the same situation and yet they do not react in like manner.  X may not show any sign of dislike while B may come up with severe reactions that can be seen in the skin. Example is skin cream that we use. That is to say, personal characteristics and genetic make-up, in handling situations, matter a lot in development of allergic reactions. No two people are the same.  Allergy may be due to foods. Sea foods are notorious in the respect. Fish, crayfish, crabs do not agree with some people.  Clothing especially new ones, or the old one washed in chemicals or soaps may cause severe reaction in wearers. Ear rings and finger rings may elicit reactions.  Chemicals: industrial chemicals and domestic chemicals are notorious in causing allergies in persons who are exposed to them. Examples are cleaning agents, washing agents and home paints. Personal beauty products: again, these are based on chemicals and pharmaceutical agents. Lipsticks, body creams, hair sprays, and soaps are examples. Medications are well known amongst medical doctors as a notorious allergy causing agents. Environment: Pollutions from industrial wastes, fossil fuel combustion from motor vehicles, deposit dangerous particles in the environment. Ultimately, these particles fall on our skin or enter our food and water. Either way, the effect may manifest as allergic reactions on our skin and in internal organs. Who would have thought that infectious agents such as bacteria, parasites, insect bites and viruses may cause us to react badly when they get into our body? Example is vaccinations. A number of individuals may develop intolerance to either vaccinations or the infective agent itself. On balance, vaccination is still the beneficial way to follow, notwithstanding. Exposure to either cold or warm water, rainfall or sunshine is known to cause allergic reactions in some people. Body sponge for scrubbing our body may elicit reactions in some individuals. Finally, not the least, our genetic composition may have the ability to resist us from developing hypersensitivity reactions. How does allergy present?  Itching is a common complaint in individuals that are suffering from allergic illness. Some may not itch at all. Rashes are common too.  The type of rashes will depend on what is causing the allergy. Sores with weeping or oozing liquid may accompany the allergy. Throat, in severe allergy may swell up and the person may suffer breathlessness. Life may be threatened. Treatment: It’s important to get to the root of the causes of the allergy. Thus, a visit to a qualified medical doctor or skin specialist is required especially if the allergy refuses to go away after a week or if life is in danger (as in severe reactions called anaphylaxis). In some occasions, relief of symptoms such as itching may become urgent. Once the cause is identified, the steps to treatment become easier.  In the meantime, if you have been affected by this article and you require assistance, you may call/or WhatsApp 07087733114 or 08188343865 for support.