The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has handed over three suspceted transformer vandals to the Imo State Police Command. The commander, 211 Quick Response Group, NAF Owerri, Group Captain Elisha Bindul, handed over  the suspects and the remains of a dead suspect at the Imo headquarters of NAF in Owerri on Friday. Bindul said  that suspect Kelechi Anyanwu, 28, along with two accomplices who usually bought allegedly stolen transformer parts were apprehended by men of the NAF at Umuohiagu Community,  Ngor Okpala LGA, on Nov. 27. He also said  that a second suspect,  Ifeanyi Okpara, had already  been lynched by an angry mob before the arrival of security operatives. He commended the police for synergising with the NAF in the fight against criminality while expressing confidence in the ability of security agencies in the state to contain crime during and after the yuletide. He also commended staff of the NAF hospital,  Owerri, for what he described as ‘prompt medical intervention’ in saving Anyanwu  from mob attack while regretting that Okpara had already died before the arrival of his men. “We commend the police for partnering us and other security agencies in fighting crime and we believe that we are equal to the task of containing criminality especially during the yuletide. “We also commend our medical team for their prompt intervention because only the living face the law. “Regrettably Okpara died before our intervention from fatal injuries sustained during mob attack,“ he said. The commander, however, promised to address the issue of jungle justice through public sensitisation. ”If we lose suspects to jungle justice,  the implication is that their sponsors will get away scot-free. “Nigerians must learn to alert security agencies when necessary instead of taking laws in their hands,  he added. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was witnessed by a representative of the Nigeria Police,  SP Okoro Nneji. Items recovered from the suspects such as electric cables,  spanners and pliers were  handed over to the Commissioner of Police,  CP Rabiu Ladodom,  represented at the event by Okoro Nneji, a Superintendent of Police. Police spokesman, Orlando Ikeokwu, however, assured that the suspects would be prosecuted.