By Oziegbe Okoeki Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday commissioned 31 network of roads totalling 20.216km in Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area. Speaking at the commissioning, which took place at four different locations in the LCDA, Sanwo-Olu said: “Good road network facilitates effective management of traffic and transport thereby boosting the socio-economic activities of the State; it reduces traffic induced health challenges and travel time to access health facilities and educational institutions.” The governor said the drainage that come with the roads help to de-flood the environment while the streetlights complement the security architecture of the State. According to him, the provision of road infrastructure is central to the delivery of the THEMES Agenda of his administration, adding “it is common knowledge that tourism and entertainment are better appreciated and attract more people when access to the venue is relatively stress-free. “To this extent the prioritisation of infrastructure especially, road, rail, and water transportation facilities is predicated on its multiplier effect and direct relationship to other pillars of the THEMES agenda.” The governor said Ojokoro LCDA is a strategic settlement with a fast- growing population and huge need for infrastructural renewal. He explained the 31 network of roads commissioned was specifically executed to offer traffic relief to the rapidly developing area, “improve the socio-economic activities and connectivity within the axis and its neighbouring Ogun state through Segun Adetiba road and the bridge across Ilo River. The completion of the network of roads will also complement other completed roads within Ojokoro LCDA. “The network of roads will help unlock perennial traffic gridlock along Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway with resultant reduction in travel time along the corridor. Prior to embarking on these projects, traffic on the road had grown tremendously considering the high rate of the population growth and its attendant vehicular density.” He promised that despite the various commitments of his government, “we shall find the most effective ways to ensure that this axis gets due attention. We will do more roads and many projects in other sectors for the benefit of Ojokoro and Lagos in general”. The governor urged the residents to take ownership of the roads and ensure that the projects are used judiciously because they have been put in place with their commonwealth. “We have to understand that challenge to sustainable infrastructure is beyond quality of job but include vandalism of road furniture and public utilities by indiscriminate dumping of refuse on roads and drainages, activities of roadside mechanics and axle overload on inner roads among others”. He urged all community/religious leaders and the people of Ojokoro and others that will ply the roads to guard jealously the infrastructure and those that would be provided in the near future.