A don, Prof Sulaiman Adeniyi Adekola has called for the use of science and technology to solve some of the myriad of challenges plaguing the country. Adekola, a chartered electrical engineer, said the use of technology can go a long way in addressing the root cause of challenges confronting Nigeria and Nigerians in the various sectors of the economy. He spoke at the 20th post-graduation anniversary of the University of Lagos engineering set (ULESSET) of 1999 in a paper titled: Ubiquitous 5G Wireless Revolution: Matters Arising. Adekola posited that since there are many breakthroughs that have been discovered by scientist across the globe, especially in the area of electrical and electronic engineering, government at all levels particularly at the centre should leverage on them to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the citizenry. Also speaking, the Dean of Engineering, University of Lagos (UNILAG), Engr. Funso Falade enjoined the engineering set ULESSET of 1999 to do everything in their power to ensure the sustainable development of their Alma Mata in the years ahead. According to Falade who is a professor of Civil Engineering in the first generation university, there is progress in coming together as one. This is because unity is strength. When you lift someone up, you are also lifting those around him and God in His infinite mercy will also lift you up. Do not relent in your quest to make your Alma Mata better than what it is today. The high point of the occasion which attracted members of the association from Nigeria and overseas was the presentation of award to some select individuals that have added value to the former students as well as the unveiling of those who would run the affairs of the association for two years. These were disclosed by the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Mr. OIumide Soile. Those elected include the President, Khalil Akinboboye; Vice President, Olufemi Samuel; General Secretary, Idowu Oyebanjo; Assistant General Secretary, Taiwo Oni; Financial Secretary, Callistus Ekpenga; Project Director, Tony Maguaje; and Treasurer, Folasade Sim-Afe. Others are the Public Relations Officer, Chioma Chigozirim; Welfare Secretary, Mobolape Adebayo-Okeke; Europe Coordinator 1, Sofola Akintunde; Europe Cordinator 2, Chiedu Enwemadu and North America Coordinator, Dolapo Ogunsanlu.