 BEFORE going into the body of today’s column, it is necessary to confess that the motifs and themes of today’s piece are not original. They are collated from one of my street-side or backyard seminars that I initiated in 2006 when I started writing for this newspaper shortly after it graduated from The Comet to The Nation. Many of the founding members have moved from my neighbourhood, but the demographic profile of the group remains the same: young people not below 20 and not over 40, a demographic group perceived by the convener to be owners of larger shares in the Nigeria project than the seminar coordinator. The recent street-side seminar concerned itself with possible legacies that are likely to result from President Muhammadu Buhari’s intervention in Nigeria as a civilian president between 2015 and 2023, given the signs that his administration has shown in the first five of his eight years in power. It is important to note that whoever attends this group accepts to talk as member of any of the hundreds of the political parties in the country, but as a citizen who automatically has a stake in how he/she is governed and has a view about what kind of society he/she would prefer to live and die in. The recent seminar of independent thinkers came up with a surprising consensus to me. Unlike general belief, ending corruption may not be the real legacy that Buhari would leave behind, despite the many strides he might have made on encouraging institutions that can serve as preventative measures against corruption: implementation of Treasury Single Account (TSA) that centralises all revenues in one place, the new IPPIS that is believed to stop existence or recruitment of ghost workers; and introduction of Tax Identification Number (TIN) to drag all adults into the country’s tax net. Unlike naming, shaming, punishing individuals who have stolen public funds, creating structures, such as the ones mentioned in the preceding sentence, that can prevent or limit corruption, are likely to be remembered long after his presidency more than the number of individuals put in jail during his tenure. Young educated Nigerians from diverse cultural backgrounds, judging by discussions at the street-side or backyard seminar that germinated ideas for today’s column, believe strongly that changes that are inherent in infrastructure development of Buhari’s government are likely to resonate more and longer than many of his other policies and projects. Buhari administration’s efforts in the area of railway development looks to be the most promising to seminar attendees, particularly if the current zeal continues until 2023 to the point that movement of passenger and cargo along cities on the vertical lines make it imperative for the government to initiate horizontal rail lines. Even the renewal of two traditional vertical lines is already being seen by much younger citizens than the writer as exciting, thus suggesting possibilities of economic and political benefits to citizens across class lines and casting rail revolution as the possible jewel in Buhari’s crown when the time comes for professional historians to apportion praise and blame on the second coming of Buhari to Nigeria’s history. Infrastructural change by the Buhari government includes building over 500 roads in various parts of the country and creating special initiatives for public-private partnership for road construction that are viewed to be more likely to resonate with ordinary citizens beyond the Buhari era  than any other policy or project. It is important to note that participants at the backyard seminar agreed that the country is far from a revolution in the transportation sector, but that the emphasis on many changes coming to the economy from getting a 150km per hour rail between Lagos and Kano was loud and clear, from youths that look more concerned about the future than the present. Many of the ‘future gazers’ in the group showed excitement about the possibility of more Nigerians intermingling across geographical barriers because of safer and more “affordable train rides.” But surprisingly, the seminar moved in the direction of flip sides, if any, of Buhari’s regime. Depression was in the air regarding cost of government, diversification of the economy, and structure of governance in the country. Comments from young men who could not have experienced the federal system killed by successions of military dictators were surprisingly detailed and strong. Participants expressed dismay about the semantic shift between the 2015 manifesto of “initiating action to amend our Constitution with a view to devolving powers, duties and responsibilities to states and local governments in order to entrench true Federalism and the Federal spirit” to a 2019 version of “creating a more equitable distribution of national revenue to the States and local governments because this is where grassroots democracy economic development must be established.” Participants had no difficulty in seeing that the 2019 version is a nuancing of the furtherance of the ideology of centralisation. Another surprise at the gathering was expression of regrets that Buhari and his governing group could not make connections between his interest in changing the gauge and speed of train and the need to change the structure of governance that has hobbled development of railway in the country. The centralisation of governance in the country in the last fifty years looks unmistakably obsolete for sustainable development as the colonial rail line that Buhari had taken pains to reform or renew. One illustration of obsoleteness is the insistence in the country’s constitution that railway should remain exclusive to the central government. But many participants expressed optimism about the ripple effects that will come from China assisting to build national rail lines and recovering its money over time. Some speakers believed that Buhari has started raising people’s expectations on train travel that might affect development of horizontal lines after Buhari’s tenure. As expected by the convener, the seminar encouraged the flying of various theories about the central government and its guiding ideas; the federation that the central government supervises; and the visible threats to the country’s economy. One of such theories is the inscrutability of leading a country that is asking for more loans in a country with one of the largest central governments on the continent, if not in the world and a federal government that is neurotic about nurturing 36 state bureaucracies that are generally unable to function as proper federating units. This idea was linked by proponents to logic of preferring the 2019 manifesto of giving more funds to states than that of 2015 which promised to devolve fiscal federalism to states in order to for them to be self-sustaining. Another theory is about what looks like a forced relationship between Buhari’s preference for building physical infrastructure above re-building governance structure and a more responsive political culture: “President Buhari’s taciturn nature makes him find more satisfaction in building physical infrastructures than investing emotional and rhetorical energy in ideas about the danger of a country holding on to an obsolete constitutional arrangement.” A third theory is that the Chinese now building the railway and many of the country’s new roads may be remembered by historians for readiness to provide needed funds and technology than Buhari who invited them to come and help the country while he would have owned fully the glory of reforming the structure of the country’s governance. Most of the participants at the seminar were optimistic about what President Buhari can still add to his feathers in the remaining three years, especially in respect of finding a new arrangement for operating the federation. As the only woman in the group said, “the country’s economic realities make such effort mandatory. The same woman also urged President Buhari to discourage distractions by refusing to sign any Hate Speech Bill that may come from to his table. 