Anambra State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of three suspects for alleged abduction of Emeka Chiaghana, an engineer, at Agulu in Aniocha Local Government. The victim, a worker with the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK), Awka, was abducted in his home at Nibo on October 25. Police spokesman Haruna Mohammed in a statement on Sunday said that the suspects were arrested during a gun battle between them and the police. He said: “On October 25, at about 8:30pm, Emeka Chiaghana, male, an engineer, was abducted from Nibo in Awka South Local Government Area of Anambra State by gunmen and taken to an unknown destination with his laptop and other valuables. “Operatives trailed the suspects. “On December 19, at about 9:45pm, while acting on a tip-off, the command’s Special Anti-robbery squad, in conjunction with Puff-Adder operatives, stormed their hideouts in Agulu and following a fierce gun battle, arrested the following suspects: “Stanley Ngala, male, aged 20, of Obehe village, Agulu; Onyedika Kanu, male, aged 29, of Ndikelionwu in Orumba North Local Government and Chiemelie Obi, male, aged 20, of Amaotutu village, Agulu. Mohammed listed the exhibits recovered from the suspects to include one AK 47 rifle, two locally-made pistols, 20 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition, eight live cartridges, two expended live cartridges, seven phones, one Toyota Camry car used in committing the crime and a laptop belonging to the victim. “Two other suspects, who escaped most likely with bullet injuries during the gun encounter, namely Abuchi Ngala, male of Obehe village, Agulu and Izuchukwu Nweke, male of Isiagu village are still on the run in order to evade arrest. They have been declared wanted by the police,” he added. Mohammed said the suspects would be arraigned after investigations. “Police Commissioner John Abang enjoins Ndi Anambra and residents with information about their whereabouts to contact the nearest police station/formations or call the police emergency number 07039194332 for prompt action,” he said.