By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie  Senior Secondary School Three pupils of Eva Adelaja Girls Secondary Grammar School, Bariga, want a block of eight classrooms renovated by Nigerian Breweries Plc to be designated for their use. The one-storey building which boasts of finished 24 pieces two-seater classroom furniture, a teacher table, a white board and ceiling fans in each classroom, was inaugurated last Tuesday at a brief ceremony in the school. Once the tape was cut, the girls who attended the ceremony made their way into one of the classrooms and expressed delight at the comfort compared to what was there before and other classrooms. A teacher then announced to them that the classroom would be for SS1 pupils to which the girls chorused a loud “No!” They were happy with the refurbished classroom, which they said would make teaching and learning more conducive. Head Girl of the school, Kehinde Ogunleye, said of the structure: “It is amazing.  It is very conducive unlike the previous structure.  It is an improvement.  It will improve learning.” Though happy about the renovation, a teacher, who did not want to be named, however said the school had much larger classes – with a class having up to 80 pupils.  Kehinde said some classes had up to 150 in a class. In her remarks, Principal of Eva Adelaja Girls Senior Secondary Grammar School, Mrs Oluyinka Soyooye, thanked the donors, saying the school wanted more. “For you to have done this to encourage and enhance teaching and learning, we are using this medium to promise you that last year we had 85.6 per cent pass in the WASSCE; but this year, we are getting 100 per cent. “But like Oliver Twist, we ask for more.  I heard a teacher saying, ‘how I wish all classrooms were like this.  So Nigerian Breweries, we are asking for more; we want more structures; more furniture,” she said. Nigerian Breweries Plc also provided toilets for the building and library books. Its Managing Director, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel, represented by the Corporate Communications Manager, Mr. Patrick Olowokere praised the Lagos State Ministry of Education for offering the necessary approval and support towards the success of the project.  He said the renovation was funded by the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund and reiterated the firm’s commitment to investing in the education sector with the aim of improving the quality of teaching and learning in schools. “As a responsible corporate citizen, our interests in Lagos state and Nigeria as a whole goes beyond the pursuit of business or profiteering. We believe that the right investment in the education of our children will secure a bright future for our nation. We are resolutely committed to supporting the development of the sector going into the future”, Bel stated. In his remarks, the Chief Whip, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr. Lateef Abiru described NB PLC as a good corporate citizen that appreciates that government needed support to meet society needs. “Nigerian Breweries deserves applause for appreciating the importance of education in Nigeria.  I want to appreciate you on behalf of the Governor, teachers, and students. “I implore the management and students to put into good use this edifice.  Eva Adelaja is one of the best, if not the best in our constituency,” he said. 