United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO) Director-General Li Yong, Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) Antonio Guterres and President of Egypt AbdelFattah El-Sisi have urged world leaders to scale up improvement on youths’ growth and employment. According to them, with more than half of the world’s population under the age of 30, the rate of unemployment has continued to rise steadily. Speaking at the opening of the World Youth Forum in Sharm El Sheikh, Yong said the unemployment rate has risen from 9.3 per cent in 1991 to 12.8 percent in 2018. “Global Youth unemployment rate risen steadily from 1999 to 2018 from 9.3 percent to 12.8 percent,” the UNIDO Director-General said. He argued that when young people participate and are included in the economic and democratic process, the processes would be sustainable. Yong urged governments to focus on technology and manufacturing, adding that manufacturing is one of the fundamental drivers for technology innovation. The director-general expressed concern that the United Nations’ 2030 agenda for sustainable development will not be visible unless leaders address the need for investing in young people. “We need to realise that youths are the game-changers in their quest for innovation, sustainable solutions, jobs, wealth and economic development. “Youth inclusion in the workforce is an integral part of achieving sustainable industrial development. It is time for us to put those who will lead the future of tomorrow in the driving seat,” he said Guterres said a lot of young people face challenges that prevent them from achieving their full potentials, adding that it is unacceptable. He said the UN Youth 2030 sustainable goals would not be achieved without needful participation from young people. He encouraged the youths across the world not to give up and to keep pushing to overcome conflict, gender inequality, poverty, insecurity, unemployment among others. Declaring the 2019 event open, El-Sisi said the World Youth Forum was created to bring youths worldwide together to discuss and proffer solutions to problems affecting nations. He said the platform was also set up to spread peace and hope towards a better future of stability in the world. The 2019 edition of the World Youth Forum is hosting 7,000 Egyptian and foreign youths, as well as a number of other experts, journalists, public figures and officials from around the globe.