 THE police have come under heavy knocks in Bayelsa State for allegedly abandoning a man they knocked down with their patrol van at the Federal Medical Centre, Yenagoa. Residents wondered why the police could allow Mr. Shadrack Ogbonna, a father of five and a mobile phone repairer to become bedridden without making efforts to treat the injuries he sustained when their patrol van knocked him down in Yenagoa. Ogbonna, who hailed from Okposi in Ebonyi State, was hit by the police van, which reportedly drove against traffic, on May 6, while he attempted to cross the road to buy phone accessories for his customers. The accident, which occurred close to Ekeki Motor Park, Yenagoa, was said to have rendered his family helpless and hungry, as he was no longer able to pay their rent and provide food for them. The policemen in the van were said to have rushed their victim to the emergency unit of the hospital where doctors confirmed that he suffered serious brain damage and required N5million to have a second chance in life. Doctors further said that the accident severely fractured his skull and damaged the victim’s left leg and arm. The victim’s wife, Mrs. Asu Ogbonna, said following her protest, the police command initially agreed to offset her husband’s medical bills. She alleged that the command later abandoned the victim when the police authorities heard that N5million was required to fly him abroad for brain surgery. Mrs. Ogbonna said the police claimed that they were no longer responsible since the policemen that knocked him down were executing a state-sponsored assignment. She said: “That morning, I left him in the house for Swali market where I trade. Before I left, we talked about plans to raise money for our rent that would expire in June. So I was in the market when I got a call that my husband was involved in an accident. “When I got to the hospital, I found my husband in a bad condition. I thought he was dead. I was told that he was hit by a police van driving against traffic.” Police spokesman Asinim Butswat confirmed the incident, but said the police were doing their bit to assist the victim.  