When it was gutted by fire two years ago, not many thought it would not be reopened months laters. Now, there is hope that its doors will soon be opened to customers, GBENGA OMOKHUNU reports. National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC) Director-General (DG) Chief Segun Runsewe, midweek disclosed that the Abuja Arts and Crafts village would soon be re-opened. Runsewe, who disclosed this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), in Abuja, said the renovation of the village had reached 80 per cent level. The Abuja Arts and Craft Village was razed in 2017 and more than 20 shops filled with artworks worth N400m were in flames. He said the organisation had to speed up work at the village not only for the purpose of renovation after the fire incident, but because of some alleged illegal activities going on at the site. Runsewe also disclosed that shops at the village were being subsidised because of government’s commitment to economic development of ordinary Nigerians. He, however, decried the situation where an individual would own between 10 to 15 shops, leasing them at exorbitant rates to traders. The DG said the NCAC was determined to reverse the trend because government’s intention was to have more Nigerians benefit from the gesture. “Government wanted to use the village to help the ordinary man on the street, but where one person will own three or more shops and turn himself to a landlord on government property is unacceptable. “The place became full of criminals and a lot of dangerous activities were going on there, we cannot allow that to continue so we had to take a firm decision,’ he said. Runsewe, however, said the issue has been tabled before the Senate Committee on Culture and Tourism, and it is still looking into it. According to the DG, some persons have also tuned the village to their houses, noting that it was against the Abuja Master Plan. “It is not an accommodation; it is a market place for cultural activities. We have been able to, at least, see for ourselves that we need to take some actions which we have by renovating the place. “When we re-open, there must be standards. There must be some kind of guide and strict adherence to rules. For Instance, there is no sleeping there; the market must close and open at a certain time and cars will not park overnight. Everything to do with the market must be in accordance with global acceptable standards.”  A mysterious fire engulfed the craft market at night on December 15. Traders at the market accused the government of being behind the fire incident because of previous efforts to sanitise activities in the place. Runsewe also urged the public to disregard rumours being peddled about the cause of the inferno. He said: “I have been making concerted efforts towards enhancing the standard of the permanent site. To ensure security of life and property at the site, we now have a police post in place. “It was out of my personal concern for the lives of those doing business at the site that after due consultation with the occupants; I took the decision to stop people from sleeping in the premises. I took particular note of the fact that there were not adequate facilities to make the site fully residential. It was never intended to be residential. “But for that proactive decision, this fire incident could have resulted into serious casualties. Let me categorically state that the NCAC has no hand in the fire outbreak as being alleged. The allegation is both unfortunate and laughable.” Preliminary reports from the Fire Service and the Police attributed the fire outbreak to a hot place in Shop 47. The DG continued: “We thank God that no life was lost because it would have been a different story. But let’s tell ourselves the truth, you know that your neighbour is cooking in the market, everybody knows that this woman was cooking there but they did nothing. Even one day I was on a disguised inspection; and I asked what the electric boiler was doing there and they said they were taking it home. “So, nobody should claim it was the power holding company that caused it when they brought light. No, power holding company didn’t put the electric boiler there. If the woman had put it off; there wouldn’t have been fire when NEPA brought back the light at night. “Why would the traders go and destroy government property after the fire incident? There’s fire outbreak in the market; why are you going to destroy government property? Is government the one responsible? Is government the occupant of Shop 47? This is part of the indiscipline that we’ve been permitting in our system which must stop. “Their own will be a lesson to others. Government gives you an opportunity to earn a living; it’s not a weakness of not knowing what should be done. “We are going to rebuild the place to international standard and accommodate all professionals and stakeholders. But this time, it will be credible and well documented persons. The era of people owning five or six shops in the place is over because these are the people fomenting all the troubles there. “Government is not a Father Christmas; if we have to get this done, it must be done with the right people to manage and operate there. Some people believe that government property is nobody’s property. Some people before us struggled to keep the place. Why must we be the one to destroy it?” 