After years of shoot and post-production, romantic comedy movie, Kpali will start screening in cinemas across Nigeria come December 20 The movie, which was shot is West End part of London and Nigeria revolves around Amaka, a Nigerian professional who works in an investment bank in London. Life throws her a curveball as her UK employer suddenly has to trim its workforce and she may lose her job. It gets complicated as her Work Visa is about to expire. In a twist, Amaka’s employer gives her a lifeline to win a big account with a Lagos-based, Nigerian company. She must head to Nigeria with a colleague of hers on this desperate mission. But there is a caveat, the deal must be wrapped up in 30 Days or else she loses everything. The movie stars Nollywood sweetheart, Ini Dima-Okojie, and thespian, Nkem ‘Osuofia’ Owoh, Linda Ejiofor, Kunle Remi and veteran actress, Gloria Anozie-Young among others. Speaking on her role in the film, Ini Dima-Okojie revealed that working with veteran, Nkem Owoh is one of the most tasking albeit exciting things she has done. “I remember reading the script and for me, I could just relate. I have family friends that have left the country for greener pastures and to be honest, they really had no interest in coming back because they feel like nothing works here. So I could relate to how my character felt in that sense. Her journey really inspired me. And the fact that I was going filming with Nkem Owoh, that was very exciting for me. I’ve always wanted to work with him. He puts you on your toes. Improv becomes your breakfast, lunch and dinner because he just goes for it and you have to take it on if not, everything falls flat,” she said. Also speaking, producer of the film, Emem Ema said that Kpali is a film which highlights the workings of a new and emerging Nigeria. “With this film, we are trying to show that there are a few good people with a different mindset in the society that we live in. Also, the reality that we live in is that wherever you make home, wherever you make your safe place is what it is. it doesn’t matter whether you are in London, Afganistan, Miami or Lagos. Wherever you make home is what it is. But there is no place like Nigeria in our opinion. And we hope our viewers get that,” she said. A debut production of Vzhun Films, ‘Kpali’ is being distributed by Genesis Pictures.