In a world in need of holiness, he redefined evangelism and missionary work. Reinhard Bonnke, the German-American Pentecostal evangelist who died in the US on December 7, aged 79, earned the defining appellation “God’s General”, showing not only the scale of his devotion to spiritual activities but also the scope of his influence in spiritual matters. Significantly, Bonnke’s “Farewell Gospel Crusade” in Lagos, in November 2017, after which he stepped down as the leader of the Christ for all Nations  (CfaN) mission organisation, highlighted his remarkable 50-year evangelistic connection with Africa, beginning with preaching in Lesotho in 1967. It is interesting that Bonnke claimed to have seen a picture of Africa repeatedly in his dreams and heard a divine voice declaring “Africa shall be saved.” He was thus inspired to reimagine evangelism. For instance, early in his missionary work he used a stadium in Gaborone, Botswana, for an evangelical event, which was a striking departure from the traditional narrow approach. After his studies at the Bible College of Wales, he worked as a pastor in Germany before he began his ministry in Africa. Bonnke founded CfaN in 1974. The mission group was initially based in South Africa, but relocated its headquarters to Frankfurt, Germany, in 1986, in reaction to South Africa’s apartheid system at the time. It is testimony to Bonnke’s crusading zeal that his international ministry currently has offices in countries across five continents, including United States, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Czech Republic, United Kingdom, Nigeria, South Africa, Singapore, Australia, and Hong Kong. The organisation’s impact can be seen in its record of more than 77 million documented decisions for Jesus Christ worldwide since 1987. Beyond Bonnke’s physical presence, he promoted Christianity by writing and distributing books, many of which were given out to encourage believers. According to Bonnke’s organisation, “As part of the discipleship-training programme, 185 million copies of CfaN follow-up literature have been published in 103 languages and printed in 55 countries.” Bonnke’s African mission was outstanding. It is a mark of his proselytising effort that, in 1984, he commissioned the construction of a tent that could seat 34,000 people, claimed to be the world’s largest mobile structure, which later proved inadequate for his gospel campaigns.  It is said that as many as 160,000 people could be counted at single open-air meetings organised by Bonnke’s group. Indeed, Bonnke was said to have drawn 1.6 million people to a Lagos crusade in 2000. The preacher demonstrated his conviction by boldly taking his message even to places where hostility was likely. For instance, in 1991, Bonnke’s plan to hold a revival meeting in Kaduna, which was approved by the police, triggered riots involving thousands of Muslims, and at least eight people reportedly lost their lives. The beauty of Bonnke’s evangelism was its ecumenism. He promoted unity among the various Christian denominations. He emphasised the centrality of Christian faith, and de-emphasised exclusion based on parochialism.  The leadership of Nigeria’s religious denominations should learn from this approach to faith. Importantly, Bonnke’s focus on salvation contrasted with prosperity teachings popular among Nigeria’s Pentecostal pastors. He hit the headlines for distributing over 95,500,000 copies of Minus to Plus, a salvation message, to people across the world. He stressed the power of the Holy Spirit, organising “Fire Conferences” in many countries to equip church leaders and workers for missionary work. He believed in faith-healing, and demonstrated its possibilities. Bonnke’s brand of Holy Spirit evangelism had a profound effect on many who experienced it. He was true to his calling, carrying out his vision for Africa and spreading his message for the world.