Disturbed by the renewed sabotage of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) System 2B pipelines, the military has begun destruction of illegal structures on islands along pipeline routes. Over 129 of such structures have been destroyed on islands around Atlas Cove in a joint military operation code named KUROMBE- a Yoruba word for “leave there”- that stretches 72kms to Mosimi, The Nation learnt on Monday. The operation, which commenced last week, has led to the discovery of thousands of manholes and wells dug on pipelines by vandals from where they siphon Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) into jerrycans, which they smuggle out of the country through wooden boats. During an on-the-spot assessment of the ongoing destruction of the shanties, it was observed that the criminals buried metallic drums in the sands to protect already dug holes where the PMS sipped into once pumping was going on at the Atlas Cove terminal. It was also observed that the manholes were located near those illegal structures and security posts manned by private guards contracted by the NNPC as well as operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Speaking to reporters during a tour of the island, Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Western Naval Command (WNC) Rear Admiral Oladele Daji said over 300,000 empty jerrycans and 30,000 filled with PMS have been recovered since the beginning of Operation KUROMBE. At N145/litre pump price, The Nation reports that the country loses N108.75million for every 30,000 jerrycans the vandals successfully moved per operation. Daji said villages that have been pulled down since the commencement of the operation include Old Akinbo, Aditu, Phase Two, Ikate, Upstairs, Virgin Island, White House and parts of Akaraba. “We are at Akaraba Island. The excavators are still pulling down those illegal structures. NNPC pipeline has been breached and the nation has been suffering losses running into billions of naira. “Hence, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Gabriel Abayomi Olonisakin directed Operation  AWATSE, an internal security operation covering Lagos and parts of Ogun State to combat scourge of pipeline vandalism and oil theft within these states as well as other criminal activities such as kidnapping and cultism. “We have been on this for the past one week and we are here for on-the-spot assessment with the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division Maj.-Gen. Olu Irefin and the Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Logistics Command Air Vice Marshal (AVM) AbdulGaniyu Olabisi so that we can brief the CDS on what we have seen so far. “The Operation AWATSE team has recovered over 300,000 empty jerrycans and over 30,000 filled with PMS. This operation will be extended to Mosimi. Pipelines must be sanitised, loopholes must be blocked and all those involved in this illegal activity will be brought to book. “The resolve of the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that we have full control of every inch of the country’s territory is our duty to uphold. There is a new resolve and that had been backed up by the CDS’ order to ensure that every illegal structure, settlement causing encumbrances and aiding sabotage of fuel distribution pipelines on critical NNPC System 2B are removed. “We are undaunted. We will go all out to ensure that the political will and backing we have received are actualised on the ground. Whoever is responsible or supporting the vandals have no hiding place. This Operation Kurombe is out to ensure that. “The masquerade has been unmasked. Every structure on the right of way of the pipeline will be flushed. We will ensure that. We are going to stop the vandals from getting the product from the source and deny them the capacity to move them to end buyers. “We are already liaising with the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS). Today (yesterday) we arrested a man from Niger Republic on the Island and will hand him over to the NIS for further action. Security agencies responsible for pipeline surveillance were carried along in this exercise. The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) were part of the coordinating conference and we are working together to ensure these pipelines are sanitised,” he said.  