 SENIOR Advocate of Nigeria Mrs Abimbola Akeredolu on Tuesday told an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court that a female student of University of Lagos allegedly gang-raped by five fellow students of the institution  is not as innocent as she claimed. She stated this while cross-examining the complainant at resumed proceeding into the charge of child defilement brought against the five students of the institution by the Lagos State Government. The survivor, now 20, was 17 when she was allegedly serially gang-raped by the five students. Akeredole who is the defence counsel to Chuka Chukwu, 19, one of the five UNILAG students accused of serially gang-raping of their victim insisted that she was not a naive person as she portrayed herself to the court. Other defendants are Moboluwaji Omowole, 19, Peace Nwankama, 19, James Aguedu, 20 and Josephine Osemeka, 20. They are charge with four-counts of  of defilement of a child, permitting defilement of a child, procuration and sexual assault before Justice Abiola Soladoye Under cross-examining by Akeredole, the survivor claimed to be an entertainer, the SAN noted that she was not a “naive 17-year-old” student as she had claimed in court. To prove her assertion, the learned silk questioning the survivor on her social life. Asked if she has ever been to Oceanwaves an Eclipse nightclubs, the survivor responded that  she sang at the 2019 Felabration some months ago and performed at the event of the musician Ycee in  August 2019. She said that she had been an entertainer half of her life and that she had not been to the Oceanwaves or Eclipse Nightclubs though she had heard of Oceanwaves Nightclub. But the senior lawyer disagreed with her and said that in 2017, the survivor launched a music track at a time  she claimed she was 17,  naïve and innocent. To further prove her assertions, Akeredolu then proceeded to read aloud some of the lyrics of the song sang by the survivor:  “I feel so lonely, so paralysed, got no guy to call my own, so when I saw the look in your eyes,  I couldn’t help to fantasize.