By Hasheem B Ahmad  SIR: The National Assembly Complex was built in 1999 at a cost of nearly $35.18 million (N7 billion) and the contract was awarded to ITB Nigeria, on February 18, 1996 through the Department of Public Building, FCDA, Abuja. Many well-meaning Nigerians received the news of the renovation of this particular complex at the cost of N37 billion with great shock and disbelief because it is happening under an administration that promised Nigerians that mismanagement of government resources would no longer be the order of the day. It is really disgusting to see some misguided elements posting on various social media platform that the previous administration had earmarked N40 billion in 2013 for the renovation of this particular complex. Why the comparison? The present administration promised to bring a change not to sustain the past. Nigeria is a country with multifaceted problems and challenges that must be addressed by Nigerians but it seems that we lack good leadership. This amount is too outrageous to be earmarked for renovation while our teaching hospitals across the country are underfunded and heavily rely on donations from foreign donors, alumni associations, philanthropic Nigerians and organisations. An analysis of the 2017, 2018 and 2019 budgets shows that the federal government allocated N475.3bn to its 21 teaching hospitals in three years. This amount is too small considering our estimated 200 million population. At the same time, the budget of National Assembly in 2017 was N125 billion; N139 billion in 2018 and N158 billion was earmarked in the 2020 budget. In other words, in three years, the total budget of National Assembly with less than 500 legislative members is N422 billion while the total budget of our 21 teaching hospitals in three years is N475.3 billion. Where is our common sense? Shall we continue to blame past administrations or colonial masters for our underdevelopment?  N36.6 billion was earmarked for Federal Road Maintenance Agency, FERMA in 2020 budget. This is an agency a charged with the responsibility of repairing federal roads across the country. Would it not have been better to allocate the N37 billion to this agency given the deplorable states of our roads? Our lawmakers would not do that because they fly private jets while our roads consume the lives of the less privilege daily. What is the way forward? Our leaders should always remember that God will ask them on how they pilot our affairs and they have taken an oath that they will improve the well-being of Nigerians. Our civil society groups should not relent in their efforts towards ensuring good governance and Nigerians should know that the people they elected as their representatives are not some supreme deities. Thus, instead of being sycophants, Nigerians should instead question their leaders and make them accountable. For government is a trust on behalf of the people. 