Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday restated his administration’s commitment to the development of a smart city hinged on the 21st century technology. He spoke at the 13th Town Hall meeting of the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), which held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. “We are determined to use the LSSTF to pioneer our effort at building a smart city to launch our capacity and capability in the security sector to the next level. We will use technology to rejig our command and control Centre, install CCTV cameras enabling our systems. In the new year, we will begin to make procurements in line with such vision,” he said. According to him, LSSTF will be from next year begin to play a very significant role in the new vision of the administration which would see to a modernisation of the control centre, and the installation of closed circuit cameras and other intelligence gathering gadgets that would promote a tech-driven security network. In the new vision, the LSSTF, Governor Sanwo-Olu further disclosed would also be expected to look beyond the Police as other arms of security apparatchik of the state, including the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), the Lagos State Neighbourhood Corps (LSNC), Lagos State Environment and Sanitation Corps (LAGESC), would be retooled with up to date equipment to enhance their capacities. The governor seized the occasion to praise all partners of the Fund since its establishment in 2007, especially banks, insurance companies, members of the organised private sector and other high net worth individuals for their continued assistance, adding that though the state government will not abdicate its responsibility of policing the state, it needs the partnership of the private sector to assist by providing the intervention fund needed to provide equipment and tools to enhance the task of effective policing of the state. “It is our responsibility to keep our state safe and secure, but we need to quickly point out too that security is everybody’s business, that is why we need the private sector to partner with us. The Fund is an intervention fund and is not meant to take over the operations and responsibilities of government.” Sanwo-Olu said. Earlier, LSSTF’s Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, Dr Abdurrazaq Balogun said the Fund is a product of the visionary contributions of former Inspector General of Police Musiliu Smith, whose committee recommended the establishment of the Fund, and the pioneer board who toiled tirelessly to ensure the stability of the agency as a critical intervention agency to enhance the capacity of the security architecture of the state.