 Crisis is brewing in the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as members of the Aremo Segun Osoba political camp on Sunday rejected the commissioner-nominees’ list sent to the state House of Assembly by Governor Dapo Abiodun. Osoba’s loyalists said they were not only dismayed that the commissioner-nominees’ list negated the promise by Governor Abiodun to “run an all-inclusive” government, but also disturbed that the policy had turned out to be a ploy to ease the Osoba political family out of the present administration in the state. In a statement jointly signed by Alhaja Yemisi Ayinla, Mrs. Toyin Usifo, Pastor Matthew Oladele, Mr. Jelili Onayemi, Chief Labeth Abodunrin and 12 others on behalf of the Osoba camp, they alleged that greedy politicians, who were responsible for the poor governance of the Gateway State in the past, had “hijacked the soul” of the Dapo Abiodun administration. The Osoba political camp, therefore, called on the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole; National leaders of the party, including Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Akande, Chief Adeniyi Adebayo, Southwest caucus leaders and other well-meaning Nigerians, to prevail on Abiodun to do the needful and correct the imbalance perceived so far in Ogun State. The statement partly reads: “We, the undersigned and members of All Progressive Congress (APC), Ogun State Chapter, hereby want to express our reservation and rejection of the Commissioner-Nominees’ list submitted to the Ogun State House of Assembly for screening and possible inauguration. “The list does not represent the proclamation made by His Excellency, Prince Dapo Abiodun, that he will run all-inclusive government in Ogun State. “The Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, after his victory at the poll, promised to run all-inclusive government that will represent the interest of blocs that worked for his victory and other groups interested in contributing positively in running the affairs of the state. “However, to our dismay the words of the governor were reduced to stillborn on the face of the list of commissioner-nominees and other appointments made by the governor so far. “Akinrogun Olusegun Osoba in his sincere way of life expended his time, resources and made huge financial contributions towards the victory of Prince Dapo Abiodun at the polls, to the glory of God. “We also want to remind the Governor that the all-inclusive government promised has not taken the Osoba Political Family into consideration in the past and present appointments made, as there are loyal, distinguished, qualified and experienced persons in the Osoba Political Family that can contribute immensely to the actualisation of the upliftment of Ogun State to greater heights. “We want to urge the Governor to live up to his words and personally do the needful to address the imbalance in the appointments now and appointments to be made later as we can boldly say that it’s not only the members of the group that presently dominate the ongoing appointments that worked for the success of the party at the poll but our Leader, Chief Olusegun Osoba, CON and all his followers worked assiduously and provided the leverage for the emergence of the mandate, which we all enjoy through the victory of the party at the polls. “It is important for Prince Dapo Abiodun to remember that sweat and blood shed by the members of this Political Family in order to serve the state should not be forgotten as God Almighty, who used these people to actualise your dream and aspirations, is on the throne observing all our deeds. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom.”