Savage Nigeria can only be cured by farming our loins for the hidden cowries of a nobler race. The brothel prostitute, foul-mouthed roughneck, political assassin, ballot robber, kidnapper, rapist, and bestial public officer are produced not by society’s savagery or sexism but by society’s absence. The family is the building block of society and civilisation. But in the wake of its dissembling, the responsibilities of raising a child are borne by a single parent, often times, the mother. There is no disputing the sacrifices borne by a woman for the sake of her loved ones. In many instances, she is a worker of marvels. She is a peasant farmer and market woman of the sidewalk. She is a maternal hero and guardian of fruits from errant male loins. She is the spangled artisan mining the dreams of those that would put her in fetters. But a shackled woman, I would say, is a shackled nation; repressed womanhood denies society of progress. Hence women, like men, are entitled to their freedom. But whose job is it to give them freedom? A woman is, then she must be free. Her total freedom, she would tell you, isn’t in the hands of any man. Nor is it some grant to be enjoyed from an abusive patriarchy. Freedom without responsibility, corrupts, and a corrupt single mother, like her male peer, often manifests dangerously. For instance, she would never raise a proper family. She would always be the defective parent raising a damaged child. Sometimes, she is a victim of circumstance: rape, child marriage, errant hormones and what social media warriors now call ‘dead beat father or husband.’ Sometimes, she is a victim of her own demons. And God help everyone if she appropriates the role of a feminist-avenger and man-hater; she rises from the ashes of her burnt wedlock and romance to raise children in her preferred image as a ‘strong, emancipated woman.’ Of course, there is nothing wrong in being strong and emancipated, whatever that intones; its the tenor of brute strength and infernal freedom that’s often cringe-worthy. If she chooses to be brute, feminism becomes an itch and a fetish, like porn. She dulls down to an artificial set of sexual-political sensibilities to satisfy her lust for being perpetually ‘oppressed.’ Like porn addicts, paedophiles, rapists and racists, such a woman is an emotion junkie, infinitely handicapped yet propelled by her lust for unearned benefits. And when she seems truly deserving of sought benefits, gluttony and wile pervert her claims until her agitation attains the tenor of a ruckus, much like the ghastly cries of feral cats jostling for the largest chunk of carrion flesh. In the wake of her failed marriage or romance, she celebrates on Facebook, her exit from what she terms the concentration camp of wedlock, and goes on to groom her daughters and sons to live in her jailhouse of notions. If money isn’t her problem, she makes sure her wards lack nothing. Eventually, she raises them as glamour pets, ensuring her son grows up to become “nothing like his father.” So doing, she infects him with gall and womanly fits. She overcompensates and splurges to make them miss nothing about their ‘deadbeat father.’ That is hardly child-grooming, its called child maintenance; keeping a child like an expensive pet. To the feminazis already wailing, yes, orthodox families may occasionally fail in child grooming; and this is not about the ‘prominent’ or ‘successful’ few, who “made it” despite being raised by a single mother. It’s about the many who grew up broken, partially or completely damaged, because they were denied a father – be it their mother or the absentee father’s doing. The dominant role of fathers in preventing delinquency is well-established. Over fifty years ago, this phenomenon was highlighted in the classic studies of the causes of delinquency by Sheldon and Eleanor Glueck of Harvard University. They described in academic terms, what many children hear their mothers so often say: “Wait till your father gets home!” The benefits a child receives from his relationship with his father are notably different from those derived from his relationship with his mother. While the mother nurtures and provides emotional healing, the father contributes a sense of paternal authority and discipline which is conveyed through his involved presence. The additional benefits of his affection and attachment add to this primary benefit. Albert Bandura, professor of psychology at Stanford University, observed as early as 1959 that delinquents suffer from an absence of the father’s affection. In recent years, there has been a sudden rise in the phenomenon of single mothers, mostly depicted by misandrists as ‘victims of deadbeat fathers.’ While some are, in truth, victims of scorching romance and irresponsible male partners, some naively got pregnant after orchestrating a one-night stand with the random ‘superstar’ and criminal, most especially Yahoo Boys, hoping they would get pregnant and the baby would be their anchor into their target’s world of sick wealth and luxury. The shenanigans of the feminazi comprising the obsessive-compulsive misandrist, the “alpha single mother,” “embittered sapiosexual,” “dimwitted diva,” among others, devastates the girl-child and spinsters alike by injecting gratuitous animosity into them towards men. They burden youngsters with gifts of obscene chips on their shoulders and axes to grind. The latter breeze through the processes as you read, internalising every anti-patriarchy slogan and animosity until they learn to give vent to internalised rage. The matrimonial lives of such characters are better imagined. Ideally, children shouldn’t grow up on the watch of such confused individuals rather they should be raised in a family setting where both mother and father assume their respective roles in the upbringing of the child. A recent study in Zimbabwe found out that single parents face challenges in paying fees for their children, buying them stationery, monitoring their school work and providing them children with emotional support. This is the abject reality that ‘sponsored’ and oft doctored feminist researches conducted by western NGOs are wont to ignore. Dissembling families result from an accentuation of the gender wars. Call it a manifestation of flawed choice, an ultimate human dilemma, precipitated by survival instinct in a blemished system. The gravest challenge to our hopes and dreams as a nation, beyond the messy political transactions prevalent at the grassroots and party arena, every minute and hour of every day, are the scandalous male vs female high dramas rocking the boats of Nigerian families and ravenous relationships. More women suffer the scourge of tarnished awareness in a political high drama that renders their conscience, a pitiful hostage of its flesh envelope; “whose surges and secret murmurings they cannot stay or speed,” says Paglia. The consequence is that instead of enjoying life naturally and as each situation peculiarly demands, the new Nigerian misandrist reduces her own quality of life by seeing the world through a sexist filter and not as it truly is. This goads her to pursue, passionately, the perversion of certain established social and universal absolutes that had at one time or the other served as their moral and psychological compasses and comfort zones. They could learn a great deal from veteran actress, mother, grandmother, and Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON), Taiwo Ajai-Lycett. How? To be continued…