By Rarzack Olaegbe  In common law systems, land tenure is the legal regime in which land is owned by an individual. The person holds the land. The law determines who can use land, for how long and under what conditions. Land tenure system implies a system according to which land is held by an individual or the actual tiller of the land. It determines the owners’ rights and responsibilities in connection with their holding. A landowner is a holder of the estate with considerable rights of ownership or, simply put, an owner of the land. The tenure signifies the relationship between tenant and lord, not the relationship between tenant and land. In the past, many different forms of land ownership have been established. One of them is the conquest of our land by Opera the owner and operator of Opay. Opay has invaded our land. But it doesn’t evade our attention. That is why we have noticed that Opay has spread its tentacles to cover the lucrative business value chain. How did it graduate from a tenant to a landowner? In 2010, PayCom Nigeria was a mobile money platform. Telnet incubated PayCom. Seven years later, Opera acquired PayCom. In August 2017, Opay was born. Opera Group, the parent company of Opay, developed Opera web browser, news and advertising. Jon Stephenson von Tetzchner and Geir Ivarsøy founded Opera Software as an independent company in Norway in 1995. Opera was created to continue what was originally a research project at Telenor, the largest Norwegian telecommunications company. Opera News was launched in 2018. It has about 30 million daily active users in Nigeria. As a tenant, Opera stepped onto the virgin land of Africa with the launch of its Opera Mini mobile browser in 2006. It has over 125 million active users. This is more than Facebook’s users. However, 13 years after, Opera has transformed into Opay and has gradually become the landowner in Nigeria. Through the adoption of technology at its core, Opay has become a force in the transportation business. Its ubiquitous green colour bikes are visible on our roads. There are over 2,000 ORide in Lagos alone. Opay has OCar, OBus and OTrike. It owns a parcel of land in the reg tech, wealth tech, and paytech and fintech ecosystem system. Opay country manager, Iniabasi Akpan, at an industry event hosted by KPMG recently in Lagos, explained how Opay gained 66% market share of agency banking in Nigeria. It has over 100,000 agents. From the business, Opay makes over $10 million in transaction daily. What did Opay do to earn humungous daily revenue? Akpan explained that Opay focused on building bridges. It connected with a network of agents. It relied on three platforms. Facebook, analytics and aggressive sales approach. Opay was practical in its approach. “Nothing was too complex. We used Facebook to gather information from people who are interested in becoming our agents. We met them. We presented to them. We signed them on”. At the end of 2018, Opay has scaled to 2,400 agents. “We make a monthly transaction volume of N11 billion by just growing our partnerships”, he said.  Opay was launched in August 2018 and does over 5 million transactions daily. Since May 2019, ORide has made over 10 million trips in Nigeria. Its Ofood platform has converted over 3,000 restaurants in Nigeria. It has 30,000 agents in Lagos. Outside Lagos, it has over 100,000 agents and 58,000 riders and over 3000 staff. In Lagos, Opay has created 33,000 jobs. It has over 1,000 employees and contractors. To some Nigerians, Opay is still a mystery. How can a company that is under three years make such an impact with revenue running into millions of dollars in the transaction? But it is not a mystery. When Akpan reeled out these figures, some Fintech experts on the social media doubted him. They pooh-poohed the impact. They could not understand how a nascent foreign company, who is a tenant, wields so much influence. For instance, at the zenith of the traffic gridlock in Lagos, a popular television newscaster, Boason Omofaye, the senior business producer with Channels TV rode on a bike to beat the traffic. He later uploaded the video on YouTube channel. The video went viral. Such endorsement for bike hailing would attract huge patronage and create impact. Besides, ORide has rescued some senior executives who jettisoned the comfort of their cars and rode bikes to their offices. While the fintech experts denied the impact and queried the figures, it should not be surprising that there is a gold mine at the bottom of the pyramid, even in Lagos. Opay understands. Maxng and Gokada jointly owned the space. Today, Opay is the landowner. What did Opay do that Maxng and Gokada did not do? Opay is contending with Bolt and Uber in the car-hailing business. Opay understands. As a startup, Opay is creating job opportunities for the people at the bottom of the pyramid. It is giving financial access to people. In its audacious ambition to permeate our lives and make us eat from its kitchen, this Chinese startup has become a legal landowner in Nigeria with consider-able rights of ownership. 