WHEN I penned the initial version of this piece, Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami was still insisting that the Federal Government could not order the release of Sahara Reporters publisher Omoyele Sowore and ex-National Security Adviser (NSA) Sambo Dasuki. But some hours before this newspaper went to bed, Malami granted my wish and in the spirit of the season, he did what he said he would not do: He ordered the release of Sowore and Dasuki. His reason: Because the courts said so. Reading Malami’s statement and seeing the reason he gave made me wonder why all the drama of the past few months when in the long run, the government was going to obey the courts. The disobedience of the court orders had made me wonder what kind of a world we would have had if we are all free to do what we want. Imagine if I am free to slap you and you are free to retaliate; I am free to take over your house, your wife and your kids and you are free to fight back; I am free to shoot you at sight; and if you do not die, you are free to shoot me back. What a world that will be! Chaotic is the best word that will capture it. I will pay a fortune to find out how it was in the beginning when there were no systems in place to check excesses. Over time, each society evolved different ways of keeping order. Elders in African villages formed some form of jury system and rules were set and whoever flouted them was severely dealt with. In most societies, if you killed, you would pay with your life. Some offences carried the penalty of being banished. So severe were some of the punishments that generations yet unborn suffered the consequences of their forebears’ sins. Colonialism came with the court system. The origin of the court is traced to the 12th century. This institution came with the authority to adjudicate on legal disputes between parties. Civil, criminal, and administrative matters now became the business of the courts to resolve. Up till this day, courts are central to dispute resolution, and, as citizens, we are all supposed to be bound by the decisions of the judges whether we agree with it or not. Since human judgments are subject to mistakes and sentiments, courts have levels: High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. If you are displeased with the decision of the High Court, you are free to appeal and if the decision of the appeal still does not favour you, you can try your luck with the apex court. After that, you can only seek solace in God! The judiciary does its work through a proclamation known as order or ruling. The orders can be interim or permanent and parties are supposed to be bound by it. My first knowledge of court orders being flouted was under the military. These dictators had no respect for the rule of law. When they take power, the first thing they do is to suspend the constitution and rule with Decrees. All past military governments in Nigeria, from Gen. Thomas Aguiyi-Ironsi, to Gen. Yakubu Gowon, to Gen. Murtala Mohammed, to Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, to Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, and Gen. Sani Abacha, operated under Decrees. Through these Decrees, they could do and undo. They were laws unto themselves. Though the judiciary, unlike the legislature, still operated under the military, they were largely reduced to handling civil and criminal cases that had little or nothing to do with government. Anytime the courts adjudicated on matters involving the government, they were flagrantly disobeyed. With the return to democracy in 1999, we expected an end to a lot of things, one of which was disobedience of court orders.  Section 287 of the Constitution enjoins every government to obey and enforce the judgments of courts of records. Olusegun Obasanjo, as president, will be remembered for flouting the order on the creation of local government areas in Lagos State. Obasanjo refused to obey the Supreme Court when it ordered his administration to release the allocations for local government councils in Lagos. Obasanjo had ordered the seizure of the money because he felt the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu administration ‘unconstitutionally’ created additional local councils. He did not want the administration to fund these new councils from funds intended for the pre-existing councils. The Supreme Court saw no sense in his action and ordered the release of the fund but Obasanjo ignored the apex court. The Obasanjo administration also for a long time ignored a court order that Rashidi Ladoja was illegally removed as Oyo State governor. Also, the administration flouted the Supreme Court order that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) should not have first line charge on the Federation Account. The corporation had two accounts, the Special receipts Account and the Expenditure Account, which were on first line charge. As gentle as many said the Goodluck Jonathan administration was, it failed in its handling of the Justice Isa Ayo Salami matter. The National Judicial Council (NJC) is the apex body in the judiciary. This body ordered the Jonathan administration to reinstate Justice Salami as the Court of Appeal President but the administration ignored it. The Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has not been able to rise above this miasma that the Obasanjo administration and, to some extent, Jonathan’s, were rebuked for.  On July 5, 2017, Justice Hadizat Shagari ordered the Federal Government to make the names of looters public. This followed a suit by a rights organisation. The order is yet to be compiled with or appealed. There is also a yet-to-be obeyed court judgment ordering the administration to compel former President Olusegun Obasanjo, the late President Umaru  Yar’Adua, and Jonathan to account for the Abacha loot. Justice Mohammed Idris made the order in 2016. It is good that Sowore and Dasuki have been released, but we also have the issue of the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat. The Federal Government was ordered to release El-Zakzaky and his wife. The judge awarded N25m each in favour of the husband and wife for the violation of their rights. They were accompanied to India for treatment but returned under circumstances that make it difficult to know who to believe between the security agents and the El-Zakzakys’. Till date, both remain in jail and the N50 million awarded in their favour has not been paid. Before the Christmas Eve release, on at least two occasions, judges ordered Dasuki’s release on bail pending the conclusion of the criminal cases filed against him. Like Sowore, he was released at a point but was re-arrested by operatives of the Department of State Services. My final take: As we celebrate Christmas and await the New Year, we, the leaders and the led, should ask ourselves: What will Jesus do? Will Jesus deny people their rights? Obviously not! The courts are like gods and their orders should not be flagrantly ignored. The government should emulate Jesus and let the courts have their way! No matter how ridiculous it thinks the orders are. And to Sowore and Sambo, merry Christmas!