Kelechi Iheanacho has discussed the pride he feels to be a part of a ‘great’ Leicester City squad who have won their last eight Premier League matches. The Foxes are now six points clear of third-placed Manchester City and another 14 better off than Manchester United in fifth following Sunday’s 4-1 win over Aston Villa. Iheanacho, on the other hand, has scored and assisted twice over his last two Premier League outings for the Foxes, which included a last-minute winner against Everton a week ago. The Nigeria international scored City’s second goal at Villa Park on Sunday, after Jamie Vardy’s first of two strikes, while defender Jonny Evans also registered his first strike of the 2019/20 season. Reflecting on another productive outing for Brendan Rodgers’ men in Birmingham, Iheanacho, 23, told LCFC TV: “It was a great performance from the whole team. “We’ve been great this season, we just need to keep going, keep our heads down. This one is done now and we’re looking forward to the next game. “They were a good side today, they were brilliant, but I think we were all over them. We stuck to our plan and got spaces all over the place and we got the goals so it’s brilliant!” Iheanacho’s recent performances for the Foxes have been a major source of satisfaction for the Blue Army and the man himself admits he has been thrilled with his displays. A delighted Brendan Rodgers spoke to LCFC TV following Sunday’s 4-1 win at Aston Villa – Leicester City’s eighth consecutive Premier League victory. “On a personal level, I’m excited, scoring again and assisting Jamie, so I just need to keep going and keep the level up, working hard in training to make sure I keep my head up,” he added. “It’s very good to be a part of this great squad so I’m happy to be part of it and going forward we have fantastic players, great quality and talented players, so I’m happy to be part of it. “Everyone is buzzing, everyone is happy. It’s a fantastic record and [we have] a great manager, great staff [and a] good group of players. “I’m happy to be part of it. I feel we can win the next game and we’ll keep going and get more records.”