By Tony Akowe, Abuja  The member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos has called for the immediate release of aid workers kidnapped on Sunday, December 22 in the north east by Boko Haram insurgents. Bagos said that the kidnap of the aid workers on medical services was condemnable and asked the government to expedite action in securing their release. He particularly singled out Miss Jennifer Ukambong Samuel, a Medical aid worker with Alliance for international Medical Action whom he described as a daughter of Plateau state, saying he was deeply saddened by her kidnap. He said: “On behalf of the good people of Jos South/ Jos East Federal Constituency, I Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos condemn the abduction of the daughter of Plateau State by Boko Haram In the North East. “I however call for immediate action to be taken by the Federal Government to facilitate the release of this great Plateau Citizens who were abducted in the North East. “I am deeply saddened by this situation where Plateau Citizens are being abducted. As a lawmaker, I am disturbed that innocent Plateau Citizens have been abducted by Boko Haram in Borno State. “I plead for the immediate release of these innocent citizens of Plateau State who are mostly youths with professional callings and have dedicated themselves working in the northeast to provide humanitarian help to victims of insurgency. “This is a sad moment that calls for immediate security and Government attention. It is very unfortunate that Ukambong, who is an orphan, was kidnapped along with several others in a brutal ambush along Monguno-Maiduguri road on Sunday, 22nd December, 2019, the day she was marking the 21st remembrance of her dear father’s demise. “I want to join other spirited individuals by condemning this act of inhumanity and pray that the Federal Government through the various security agencies will take immediate action to ensure the safe release of our innocent Sister.”