Perhaps only security and the economy got greater attention than transportation in 2019, as the Buhari administration’s giant strides in the provision of a speed train became manifestly consuming, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE  Never in the history of Nigeria has transportation had any huge impact on the nation as it did in 2019, the outgoing year. Every year, transportation contributes less than four percent to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). But this parlous statistics may change soon, as the Lot II of the Lagos-Kano Standard Gauge, (the ground breaking of which was performed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in June 2016), nears completion. From its take-off in October 2016, the pace has clearly been unNigerian. Given that the Itakpe-Ajaokuta-Warri line, which was the nation’s first standard gauge, was delivered after 35 years, and the second, from Abuja to Kaduna, took 12 years, the best of cynics had written the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge off as a project the Buhari government will not be able to deliver. But in the next four or five months, that hurdle would be crossed forever. The sign that the Buhari government is determined to prove bookmakers wrong and deliver the Lot II on schedule, was the trial test of the 35km of the project, from Toyin, on the outskirt of Iju, Lagos, to Abeokuta, which was performed by Minister for Transportation Rotimi Amaechi, on December 18, 2018. To doubting Thomases, the test was mere political gimmickery to pull the wool over gullible voters’ eyes (especially as the general election was in top gear), moreso as the free ride declared by Amaechi suffered a still birth. But soon, it became clear that the standard gauge was not a phantom project. On February 8, this year, Amaechi officially performed the trial run of that track earlier slated to be done by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo. The Minister of Transportation, rode on the standard gauge track with the then Ogun State Governor Senator Ibikunle Amosun, the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, and a host of other dignitaries; while, the Nobel Laureate Prof Wole Soyinka, was among other dignitaries who received the minister at a location close to the Abeokuta station. For the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Gbadebo, the train ride was nostalgic and historic. His great grand-father, as the Alake, had ridden on the narrow gauge when it was commissioned by the British in 1901. Even when the project moved from Papalanto and snaked its way from Ijoko, in Ogun State, to Toyin, on the fringes of Lagos between January and February, many still doubted it. Opposition politicians who were waiting to tar the administration had to switch gear. It was clear, though the project could not be delivered before the election, its pace is undeniably in contrast to our recent past. Amaechi supervised the project till the eve of the dissolution of the cabinet in February, providing leadership that propelled the speed of the project which he started from scratch. Though the board and the Federal Ministry of Transportation ensured the project’s momentum was maintained, but it was not until Amaechi’s return to the Ministry that all stakeholders heaved a sigh of relief certain of the fate of the project, which they feared may be abandoned. Already, the four months interregnum between the last tenure and the composition of the new cabinet affected the project – the contractor’s Interim Payment certificates (IPC) couldn’t sign and no imports order couldn’t be made. It also mean several adhoc workers also had to be laid off. That was the situation until September when Amaechi returned to the ministry and back to site in September. The pace however have picked again, this time, moving from Omi Adio, which is km 153, and getting to the train station at Moniya which is km 156, before December 20. From the Lagos end, the contractor has equally gone on full throttle, taking the track laying from Toyin to Fagba, with commitment to lay the track to the Agege train station by December 20. Also the narrow gauge service which was suspended in August, for relocation and rehabilitation by the contractor, for the standard gauge expansion, is expected to resume before year end. At the routine inspection of the project on November 30, Amaechi had restated  the contractor’s commitment to sign off on the project in May. “We are not the one handing down the deadline again, the CCECC gave us the May deadline’’, Amaechi had disclosed. He also declared free train ride from Fagba train station in Lagos, to Ibadan; with a stop-over at the Abeokuta train station, from December 2, to April 2020. Amaechi said the Federal Government is happy to use the yuletide season to carry out the trial run of the train ahead of its eventual commissioning in the second quarter of 2020. Also speaking during the inspection, the Managing Director, Engr Fidet Okhiria, said the corporation is eager to commence trial running of the train as it would help determine the stability of the tracks to enable the contractor fine tune where necessary. He said: “Two luxury coaches would be put on the tracks to run a single leg from December 2 to December 19, while the frequency will increase to two, as from December 21, to April 2020, ahead of the commissioning of the project by Mr President, in May, after which commercial activity will begin in full swing.” Okhiria further disclosed that from December 2 to 19, the train will depart Ibadan by 9am, and leave the Fagba Station by 4pm daily.  Another schedule would be released ahead of time to regulate how the train will run from December 21, when it will commence twice daily shuttle. He disclosed that 15 Diesel Multiple Unit (DMU) locomotives and 25 wagon locomotives have been ordered, while coaches and wagons of various categories have been ordered by the Federal Government to be deployed on the route once it begins commercial operations.  Strides in Maritime Though the Federal Ministry of Transportation eventually shed off Aviation, which returned to the original status as a full Ministry, it however retained Maritime to which Minister of State for Transportation Senator Gbemi Saraki was assigned.  Between September and December, the maritime sector under the new minister has organised major stakeholder conferences across the country to refocus the sub-sector and further embolden its capacity as the cashcow of the nation’s economy.  Not only has the sub-sector domesticated the Executive Order 5 which focuses on the ease of doing business at the ports, it is preparing all agencies of government in the sector to gear up and police the nation’s waterways and national assets in order to deliver more funds to the coffers. Despite the huge funding gaps, there has been so much going on, on the inland waterways. One of beautiful interventions is the provision of water ambulances to prevent deaths in the event of accidents on the waterways. The National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), has embarked on aggressive enlightenment to drive home safety tips and voluntary compliance with waterways regulations by all operators. But, perhaps, more significant is the readiness of NIWA to begin the operation of its strategic inland ports, such as the Baro River Port in Niger State, the flagship port in the North, which despite the huge investments, were rendered unusable by lack of motorable roads to connect the inland port. The Baro port, has been equipped with cargo handling equipments which has been inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari. The inland port would reduce the pressure on Lagos ports as cargoes for the Northern parts of the country may find their way there quickly. NIWA also improved its partnership with other states  with effectiveness as the regulator on the waterways.  State of roads Nigeria has 108,000 km surfaced roads as at 1990. It is home to the largest road network in West Africa and second largest, south of the Sahara. Since independence, the country has being battling dilapidated and decaying road infrastructure. The Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, for instance remains jaded, with the contractor announcing a new date of 2022 as completion date for the epair works on this critical road. The contractor opened only on December 1, a portion of the road (about 400 metres) from Kara Bridge to Berger Bus Stop, which was closed down for four months for repair. Government approved about N134 billion in 2018 to accommodate more features on some sections of this critical arterial road. The repairs started in 2006. At the last count over 150 highways, 66 interstate roads and 45 bridges scattered across 34 states, are in various stages of completion. The Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola in November had caused a stir, at the budget defence when he said the 2020 allocation cannot even pay outstanding debts owed contractors. Unless something drastic is done, the coming year may record worsening road profile as capacity to rehabilitate them has dropped abysmally. He canvassed tolling. Same may commence in 2020. Southeast and Southsouth remained zones with worst road profile in the country according to statistics released by the FMWH. The story has hardly changed as the year winds down. The minister believes the administration is doing so much with much less, underscoring the regime’s penchant for prudence in the public sector. But Nigerians seem not to see yet the gains of such frugal spends on critical roads.  Railway Though the government’s pace on the standard gauge is salutary, same could not be said of the narrow gauge the concessioning of which ran into stormy waters since 2017, when the United States’ General Electric (GE) pulled out of the interim agreement with the government. Though the government claimed Transnet Inc has taken over the negotiation from GE, it looks negotiation has hit the rock. The $1.7 billion standard gauge project, may however be delivered second quarter 2020. The Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi, who has been driving the project, awarded to China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), said the government envisages high subscription of the train service. The Ibadan-Kano Lot of the project would begin by May 2020. Amaechi, said all the state capitals would be linked by rail before 2023. He said work will begin on the Lagos-Calabar coastal rail line, once government is able to source funds. The construction of speed rail line on the eastern flank, from Port Harcourt to Enugu will also not be too long in coming.  Enabling laws Despite its efforts, the eighth Assembly, could not deliver on any of the six bills that could have strengthened the transportation industry. Only last week, a bill seeking to repeal the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) for a Federal Roads Authority bill passed second reading at the Senate. Other such bills still hanging; are the Nigerian Railway Corporation Act 1955 Amendment Bill, the Nigeria Transportation Commission Bill, (which seeks to establish a regulator for the transportation sector), the Nigerian Shippers Council Amendment Bill, and the Nigeria Ports Authority Amendment Bill.  