  The premises of St. Michael’s and All Angel’s Anglican Church, Ahiaba Okpuala Ngwa-Ukwu in Isiala Ngwa Local Government Area of Abia State was on Saturday December 7, besieged by friends and well-wishers of the Onuohas and Nwaubanis. They included those who came to see things for themselves as Lauretta Onuoha, who survived a fatal accident which claimed the lives of 28 persons, walked down the aisles with her heartthrob, Mr. Victor Nwaubani, a lawyer and an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). The wedding, which was officiated by Rt. Rev. Temple Onyinyechi Nwogu, Venerable Godwin Nkuche, among other ministers mainly from the Anglican Communion, attracted the presence of colleagues of Lauretta and others who put off other pressing engagements for the day to rejoice with the family. The rendition of beautiful songs from the choristers and the colorful parade by the Police Band kept guests lively while the event lasted. For Lauretta, it was a day of mixed feelings. She was sad because she couldn’t dance the way she had wanted to on her wedding day. She was, however, happy that she was alive to witness the day come through and with the man that she had courted for five years. She equally had every reason to be happy and celebrate more than ever because she survived a fatal auto accident where over 28 persons lost their lives. For her parents, it was a day they happily and joyfully handed over the hand of their only daughter to her husband, which they had always dreamt to do. In his homily, the officiating priest, Rt. Rev. Temple Nwogu, represented by Venerable Nkuche, asked the couple to love each other and ensure that they not only live together, but to train their kids in the fear of God. Lauretta, who spoke to our reporter, recalled how God saved her from the fatal accident that killed 25 others and thanked God that she was alive to witness such an important day, which every single lady prays for. “On that fateful day,  October, 21,2018, I was coming back from my immediate elder brother’s child dedication in Aba. I was with my parents, but when we got to Isiala Ngwa junction, they alighted from the bus, while I continued the trip to Umuahia in the same bus that we all boarded in Aba because I had to go to work the next day. “On getting close to Ntigha junction, our bus had a head-on collision with another vehicle as I was told because I can’t even remember what happened and how it happened. “I was told by my people that I passed out only to wake up in the hospital, Federal Medical Center(FMC), Umuahia,after about four days. “I sustained injuries on my body, including the fracturing of my right leg’s femur.  Apart from the femur, the accident affected one of my eyes. The first time it was operated upon, I couldn’t see with it; it was the second time that I was able to see with the eye.  “For now, I am okay, except for the femur that they inserted a rod in my leg to help it heal. The rod, I was told, will be removed in years ahead when the femur must have healed properly. “I didn’t know that I will survive. People who visited me at the hospital were thanking God that I was among the few that survived, but the pain was excruciating. It wasn’t easy, but I thank God that I am alive today.” ‘My secret fears on the hospital bed’ “One of the things which bothered me when I regained consciousness was the fear of my hubby leaving me for another woman. The first thought that came to me was Victor. I was so scared that he might leave me at that point in time, because I know that we had a very sweet relationship. “Victor had promised that he was going to marry me. So, we had been waiting for him to finish from the Police College before the devil now came in. So, I was so scared he might leave me. “However, Victor stood by me all through. He never showed any sign of leaving me, but as a human being, I was thinking that he was just trying to care for me at that point in time. But whenever I  remembered that so many people died in the accident, I will use that to console myself. Whenever I remembered all these things, I will just tell myself that even if Victor decides to leave me, it will not be the end of my life. “I know that as far as there is life, there is still hope for me. I know that if Victor left me, that it would have really hurt me because our relationship was open and everybody knew that Victor was the only man in my life. “At that point, people were not even helping matters. They were putting fears in me. They were saying that the accident might be enough reason for Victor to run away and that didn’t help my situation then. A a human being, I started thinking otherwise. I was just watching him to know his next moves”. Did she ever suspect  Victor might be unfaithful to her infidelity while she was confined to her sickbed? Her response: “It happened. I kept disturbing him, especially when he was posted to Abuja. If I called him when he was supposed to be in the office and he didn’t pick his calls, that would be a very big