The All Progressives Congress (APC) has challenged other political parties to step forward to fill the constructive opposition role that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is allegedly not fulfilling. The ruling pstatement released by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said that the PDP had abandoned its traditional role as the main opposition party, majoring now in issues it described as idle chatters and propagation of fake news, adding that the PDP’s failure in its role is fast transforming Nigeria into a one-party state.arty, in a According to the ruling party, it would serve Nigeria better when the ruling party had a vibrant opposition that will constantly interrogate its policies and programmes; it however noted that the PDP had refused to play that role, saying that the development had confirmed its earlier fears. “This is exactly our fear. Is this not a confirmation of APC’s earlier position that Nigeria was fast becoming a one-party State as a result of the rudderless and soulless PDP, Nigeria’s supposed main opposition party? “No doubt, our country deserves a strong and vibrant opposition to play its conventional role in the polity and to deepen democracy. The PDP has shown crass and shocking incapacity to perform that role. As a party that believes in democracy and progressive politics, we are worried by this obvious vacuum. “No rigorous and intelligent interrogation of the current administration’s policies and programmes by the PDP. Just idle chatter, propagation of fake news, post-election delusions and other unpatriotic conducts. This is dangerous for our democracy. The APC hereby invites other registered political parties to step up and perform the crucial opposition role the PDP has failed so woefully to play. “On the governance side, the PDP is reminded how compared to its past administrations which enjoyed record earnings, yet frittered our commonwealth, with limited resources, the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration continues to achieve several visible milestones. “The governing APC recognizes the importance of a vibrant opposition, which the PDP has failed woefully to play. Of the several other registered political parties, we challenge any of them to step up and play this important role. “Finally, we reiterate our position that there remains much to be done in ensuring the sanctity of our electioneering process, particularly partisan approach to elections. The PDP must begin to address itself to the new reality that under the President Buhari administration votes are beginning to count. We will continue to check and frustrate PDP’s inglorious practices of massive thumb printing, ballot box snatching, vote buying, thuggery, using state institutions, particularly INEC, the judiciary and security agencies to manipulate the electioneering process,” the statement said.