Leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu on Monday alleged that the Oraifite, Anambra State home of his lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, was invaded by policemen and soldiers. He said three of his members were killed during the attack, with others injured. Kanu, in a statement on Monday, said the attack was targeted at his lawyer and his family. He described the attack as a step taken too far, which he said would only hasten Nigeria’s disintegration. “Confirmed reports indicate that a combined team of Nigeria police and military assassination squad invaded the home of my lawyer Ejiofor in Oraifite Anambra State this morning, Monday, December 2, in a bid to kill him and his family,” Kanu said. According to him, three innocent “Biafrans” were killed by the invaders. Kanu said: “This comes on the heel of yet another killing of two IPOB family members who were peacefully gathered in Arondizuogu on December 1. “Their bodies are still in the morgue. The Police and Army must know that the time is fast-approaching when British diplomatic clout and protection may not be enough to shield them from the consequences of their daily crimes against innocent Biafrans. “Attacking the home of my lawyer is a step too far and the only effect it will have is to hasten the disintegration of Nigeria. “There is a United Nations Mission, US Embassy, British High Commission and other highbrow foreign diplomatic presence in Nigeria who should take note of these ugly developments and convey same to their home countries. “It is their responsibility to ensure this wanton brutality, lawlessness and anarchy against the people of Biafra are duly noted for what it is, an act of war. “Those responsible for this deadly assault know they will pay dearly for it. They know it is only a matter of time.” A resident said two cult groups, Eke and Afor, clashed at a funeral, with scores injured. The matter was reported to the Police. The source told The Nation that two persons were allegedly shot dead by the Police in Ejiofor’s house. In a reprisal attack, two policemen were killed by the community’s youth at the Nkwo area, the source said. But, another source claimed that the Police might have mistakenly stormed Ejiofor’s house. The source said: “On reaching the lawyer’s house, the Police had an altercation with IPOB members, which led to the Police opening fire on the IPOB members in his house. “The angry Oraifite youths quickly mobilised and attacked the policemen. In the process, two policemen were killed. “It is unfortunate the Police went to Ejiofor’s house and in an attempt to arrest IPOB members, a crisis ensued and the policemen opened fire on the IPOB members who were not members of any of the cult groups.” The development has caused tension in the community. Major roads in the area were deserted by residents for fear of arrests; others stayed back in their business premises. The traditional ruler of Oraifite, Igwe Dr Dan Ugorji, confirmed the incident. He said he was informed via a text message and was yet to be fully briefed. He, however, expressed sadness over the incident. Igwe Ugorji said: “It is very unfortunate that some people can be very quick with guns to kill. “Why did they not arrest the culprits instead of shooting them? There is no need for loss of lives at this time, in fact, any time.” “I think every problem can be settled through dialogue instead of killing people. We must, however, maintain peace at all time. “Killing and rioting will not lead the country anywhere. The government needs to reeducate the Police and the Army. Killing citizens is not the way.” Police spokesperson, Mr Haruna Mohammed, said he had received the information about the incident but was yet to receive the full details. He promised to get back to our reporter but did not do so as at press time.