Our Reporter  IT’S that time of the year again. Christmas is right around the corner and the whole world is in the mood for celebration! How are you going to spend your holiday season with your little ones? Well, if you’re looking for ideas, you’ve come to the right place! There are some Christmas-time practices that remain universally beloved. Christmas-time is rife with activity ideas for you to have the best time with your little tots! Let’s get into it! Making dessert Chocolate Chocolate, cake, and warm drinks are a must-have for the end of the year. In many countries, it gets cold this time of the year — and there just isn’t a better way to keep warm than with a comforting cup of chocolate. Try this microwave-brownie recipe with your children! Easy, child-friendly, and delicious, this is one recipe you’re going to want to save! Fruit crafts Looking for a healthier option? You got it! Christmas dinners typically serve many fruit based dishes — fruit cakes, fruit-infused pudding and fruity drinks. An easy-to-prepare snack is a fruit platter! Cutting fruits out into shapes (under adult supervision) and arranging them in patterns will be great fun — plus, you get to eat it! Snowflakes Snow topped Christmas trees and winter have become a staple in Christmas symbolism. Did you know that all snowflakes are six-pointed, and that no two snowflakes are alike?  When putting up your Christmas tree this year, throw in a couple of homemade ornaments! Instructables has an easy step-by-step tutorial that helps every little crafts-person produce beautiful snowflake patterns! Christmas lights Missing brightly coloured Christmas lights in your home? Invite the kids to light up, not only on the Christmas tree, but the whole house with their own little fingers! Welcoming Santa What is the first thing that comes to mind when you think of Christmas? For us, it’s our all-time favourite Santa Claus! Around the world, Santa takes many names and forms. In Europe, many countries teach their children of St. Nicholas, a saint in red robes who brings gifts to children each year in December. Some know the Christmas gift-bringer as Father Christmas, Father Frost, and Sinterklaas. The most popular, though, is Santa Claus, a jolly old man with his memorable white beard, his red winter clothing, and his magical flying reindeer. Letter to the North Pole How will Santa know what you want for Christmas? You’ll have to tell him! Let’s sit down, think this through, and carefully write a polite letter to Santa telling him about how your year was and what you want for Christmas. Christmas songs To prepare for Santa’s arrival down your chimney, let’s learn songs to welcome him! Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer speaks to every child who’s special in his own way. A sweet jingle, that reminds us that the qualities that make us different are meant to be embraced, is the perfect song for the holidays. Christmas fun facts This holiday season may seem similar all around the world because of the bright lights, festive feasts and the general air of cheer. There are actually plenty of differences that distinguish each community during this time. Christmas songs You may be familiar with the classic Christmas songs, but do you know some of the popular Christmas songs in other languages? Check them out in our earlier Christmas blog post. 