By Sampson Unamka Nigerian actor, model and presenter, Timini Egbuson, and his team member, Chef Igwonobe Emike, known as Team Timitoks, have won the Baileys Bakefest 3, held at Muri Okunola Park on Victoria Island, Lagos, last weekend. They won N1 million cash and N200,000 voucher from O-Gas. The one-day treat extravaganza showed off the many other ways in which Bailey’s Delight can be enjoyed. The Bake-off, with four well regarded upcoming bakers paired with celebrities, lived up to expectation. The three-round contest had participants in their separate booths whipping up tasty pies and tarts, delicious cocktails, and the yummiest baked desserts, within a time limit. While contestants battled with oven mittens, guests rode the mechanical bull, and enjoyed the mega jenga, snakes and ladders, tic tac toe, among others. They also engaged in contests with attractive giveaway prizes. At the end of the contest, member of the Bakefest Judge, Chef Alex Oke, announced Team Timitoks as winners of the competition. He said: “We were really impressed with the quality of products they put out on both rounds; their creativity, use of Baileys Delight was fantastic. It was a very clear win so congratulations to them.”  Speaking about the competition, Timini, who has featured in series, such as Tinsel and Shuga, said: “I feel amazing, it is nice to be associated with success and winning, that is the mentality am taking with me forward. Everything I touch turns into gold.” On his cooking experience and way forward, he said: “My mum is a baker and a cook, I love cooking and this is something I do naturally, this has actually ignited the fire in me and am going to try and see if I can start going for a few classes and take it up professionally.” Other prize winners were Ninalowo Bolanle and Funmi Ikede (Team Nino Fairy) – 2nd Place (N750,000 cash and N150,000 voucher from O-Gas); Venita Akpofure and Uzoma Obi (Team Venuzzy) – 3rd Place (N500,000  cash and N100,000 voucher from O-Gas); Bimbo Ademoye and Unyime Bassey (Team Bimbonero) – 4th Place (N250,000 cash and N50,000 voucher from O-Gas).