 Policemen from the Force Headquarters in Abuja have intercepted bags of ammonia, a substance used to produce Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Force spokesman DCP Frank Mba, who displayed the substance to reporters in Abuja on Tuesday, said the bomb disposal squad had taken samples and confirmed that the item was used to manufacture IEDs. He said with the interception of the substance in Zaria, Kaduna State, a criminal plot had been neutralised.
Mba said this was a result of robust intelligence operations. He said: “If the suspects had been allowed to get to their destination, who knows the havoc they might have done.” Mba said that the Intelligence Response Unit (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS) were working to ensure citizens’ safety. He paraded 71 suspects for crimes. Items recovered from them include nine AK47 rifles, three other assorted weapons, two vehicles, one motorcycle, 18 phones, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cards, TV sets and over 4,000 packs of Tramadol worth about N54million, among others. A 27-year old man, Abubakar Said, one of the four suspects arrested for transporting Tramadol from the eastern part of the country to Bauchi in the North, said they were escorted by two military men. Mba said with the nexus between crimes and drugs, they were intensifying efforts in the fight against drugs. On the allegation that the suspects were escorted by military men, the Force spokesman said: “We are dealing with that appropriately and will brief you when it is time.” Among those arrested were suspects who kidnapped a monarch at Rubochi in the Federal Capital Territory. Also nabbed was a two-man burglary gang from whom 18 TV sets were recovered. Another two man-gang that robs people at ATM points, a robbery syndicate who targets women, a gang that steals vehicles, using anti-tracking devices obtained from an online store, among others, were arrested. Mba warned parents and guardians not to allow their children and wards to use fireworks during the festive period, “as the police have been directed to arrest distributors, sellers and users of fireworks.”