Kelvin Osa Okunbor The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) in conjunction with a Lagos based social enterprise Mitimeth on Tuesday commenced the third edition of the water hyacinth recycling initiative where 100 rural women were trained on the economic benefits of recycling hyacinth weed. LASWA General Manager, Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel who spoke in an interview at the Ikorodu Ferry Jetty said the agency put the programme together as a window to create waste to wealth for youth, women and others turning the menace of water hyacinth into sustainable lifestyle and fashion for people in coastal communities with requisite skills to transform the hyacinth into valuable handcraft materials. Rather than lament over the menace of water hyacinth and its attendant effects on Lagos waterways, Emmanuel said LASWA is collaborating with other agencies to harvest weed from hyacinth and convert them into materials including: bags, mats, notebook cover, hand-basket, furniture items and textile decorations. According to the LASWA General Manager, water hyacinth cannot be totally eradicated but could be controlled through harvesting into new materials and valuable products. He described water hyacinth as one of the fastest growing weeds across the globe infesting water bodies in over 50 countries. Hyacinth, he said reproduces every two weeks and thrived in polluted waters. He said: “It is renewable resources but also an environmental menace and threat to biodiversity.” He said the Water Hyacinth Recycling Training programme, which started last week has moved from Epe, Badagry before it took place at the Ikorodu ferry terminal for participants in Lagos East. After the Ikorodu session, the programme he said will move to Central Business District where participants will attend the training at the LASWA Yard , in Falomo Ikoyi-Lagos. Speaking in an interview, Emmanuel said: “We are here today to talk about interventions on the waterway going on . We are looking at sustainable initiative to manage the waterways and the many benefits accruing from it. For a long time water hyacinth has been considered as a menace in our waterways. “We want Lagosians to now see this menace of water hyacinth turned into wealth. The whole idea is not see hyacinth as a problem but collaborate with other sector players in the economy to turn it into wealth. “As the fastest growing weed on water once it is cleared and parked we collaborate with other players to dry it and see how the materials could be converted into raw materials for rural women to create a lot of products, for youths, men and women to create wealth.” He said training programmes have taken place in Epe, Badagry and Ikorodu but assured that the programme will from next year take place simultaneously in all locations. Emmanuel spoke of plans to extend the training to 500 women from next year.