 It is sad that Nigerians keep dying, needlessly, as a result of the refusal by some hospitals to treat armed robbery, accident or other emergency victims in spite of legal provisions mandating hospitals to prioritise saving lives above every other thing in such a situation. We have the National Health Act which in section 20 mandates a healthcare provider, health worker or establishment to treat persons on emergency whatever the situation. Violation of the law attracts a fine of N100,000 or a jail term of six months, or both. There is also the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Act which, in section 11 provides for a five-year jail term or N500,000 fine, or both, for any authority or person whose omission results in the death of a gunshot victim. So, it is not for the lack of relevant laws that emergency victims have been dying as a result of hospitals’ refusal to treat them. Why then is this recurring? This is why we welcome the decision of the House of Representatives to investigate the alleged refusal of the management of R-Jolad Hospital, Gbagada in Lagos State, to treat a victim of armed robbery attack, Miss Moradeun Balogun, who was rushed to the hospital, resulting in her untimely death. The decision was sequel to the adoption of a motion moved on Tuesday by Olawale Raji, at the plenary presided over by the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila. Miss Balogun was attacked by armed robbers on December 2 and was rushed to the hospital by Good Samaritans. She was however allegedly refused medical attention, a thing which eventually led to her death. However, the hospital said contrary to social media reports, Miss Balogun was not a gunshot victim; but she nonetheless was attended to by two of their doctors. The hospital said it had to transfer her to Gbagada General Hospital since the doctors said she needed the attention of a vascular surgeon. “The patient was therefore referred to the closest hospital, Gbagada General Hospital, in one of the available vehicles at the spot since the ambulance was yet to return from a medical assignment. The vehicle departed exactly 07:26pm. Further findings and follow up revealed that the patient was received in Gbagada General Hospital,” R-Jolad Hospital said. The hospital added that it remained committed to its core values which place premium and value on human lives. Now, it is the hospital’s words against the social media reports. This is where the House of Representatives probe becomes necessary.  Many hospitals in the country usually turn down victims of emergencies on account of failure of the people who brought them to hospital to produce police report. Yet, the police have always made it clear that this is wrong. As a matter of fact, as recently as May, this year, the (then) Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Imohimi Edgal, warned hospitals and doctors to henceforth desist from rejecting gunshot victims, saying such act was inexcusable and constitutes a flagrant violation of an existing law. He directed that such medical personnel be arrested and prosecuted immediately. Without trying to preempt the outcome of the House of Representatives’ investigation on the incident, it is important to stress that sometimes, things are not as easy or smooth as they are put by senior public officials. For instance, we all know that bail should be free, but then, it is not so in many police stations. Likewise, Good Samaritans who helped accident victims have had to go through hell at some police stations, especially if the victims eventually die. The onus is on such kind-hearted individuals to prove they were not the ones who killed the victims. As we curiously await the outcome of the House of Representatives investigation, it must be stressed that hospitals need to be aware of the provisions of the law in the circumstance and compelled to obey them. There is what is known as the ‘critical moments’ in emergencies which make the difference between life and death for the victims. That anyone could be victim also makes it imperative for the hospitals to first do the needful; that is attend to the victims even if they are criminals, before reporting to the police. We need the criminals to be alive to get useful information from them. 