 After an impressive showing in the NCA DIII men’s soccer national championship, US-based Nigerian- born youngster Adetayo Adefioye wishes to represent his native Nigeria in international football. Already, a senior in Knox College in Galesburg Illinois, the Ibadan native, said he was currently working on playing professional in the United Soccer League (USL). The USL is a step below the Major League Soccer (MLS) and Adefioye said his fledging career is well on track as he reportedly made the team of the season in the DIII after he scored a dozen goal with half-dozen assists. “I remembered sneaking out to play football when I was a little boy and getting my ass beaten  when I returned  home from playing football back then when I was  in Nigeria,” he said.  “I’ve always loved the game regardless of the outcome and I was inspired because of the love I have for the game since no one really talked me into playing football.” Adefioye persistence over the years was recently rewarded at Knox College where he was accorded a place in the Academic All-American. The Academic All-America programme is reportedly a student-athlete recognition programme that selects an honorary sports team composed of the most outstanding student-athletes of a specific season for positions in various sports—who in turn are given the honorific Academic All-American.” “I played for semi-pro team in Bloomington Illinois in the NCAA for three years and lost in the finals this year; I’m currently the Midwest Player of the Year. “I’m on the verge of getting my first professional contract signed for a team in the USL and I have signed a mandate with my agent to look for club for me in the USL or MLS. I’m optimistic of going to either Germany or London to further my professional career.” Yet Adefioye said it was initially challenging before he finally made the breakthrough as a student athlete but for his the revered Nigerian spirit. “Transitioning from Nigerian to American soccer had been a hell of a ride for me and the challenge here is unbelievable high,” he explained. “At the moment, I can definitely play anywhere in the world because of what I have learnt here with the combination of what I got from Nigerian football. “I’m faster, stronger and my goal scoring technique is unbelievable at the moment, I see the pitch differently than other players, let’s just say it’s amazing.” Speaking further, Adefioye picked Cristiano Ronaldo as one of his admirers. “I won’t say I have a role model because we’re the best version of ourselves. But my favourite player in Europe is Cristiano Ronaldo not because of his talent but his hard working spirit.
“He (Ronaldo) fight for everything and everything he has achieved today has been because of the idea of not giving up.
“My favourite player in Nigerian football history is Mathematical Segun Odegbami. I saw his videos and his ability to keep the ball, crosses and speed on the ball was amazing. He also owns the school I went to in Nigeria The international sport Academy in Wasimi in Ogun State.”
Adefioye said as matter-of-factly that he now wishes to represent Nigeria as did his mentor in his heydays. ”I don’t have any link with Nigeria football now but I am optimistic because it’s been my dream to showcase my talent and help my country win major trophies.
“I will be honoured to play for Nigeria,” he added. “It’s not everyone that has the opportunity to play for their countries; some others tend to play for another county because they don’t believe in their countries.
“But I believe in what I can contribute to Nigerian Football, I won’t think twice before joining and playing for my country,” he noted.