Over 300 residents of Agege, a community in Lagos state benefited from the maiden free medical outreach programme organised by Kairos Inspirational Network. The programme was part of the church’s support to the government in providing quality health care to the people and the start of their effort to give back to the society with plans to take it across different local communities. Some of the services rendered at the event include health screening, counseling, dental examination, basic eye test, distribution of reading glasses and referrals for special cases by the doctors. Senior Pastor of Kairos, Adeoye Abodunrin, said the initiative was based on clear directives from God to make a difference in the community. He said the level of poverty in the country has affected most citizens’ access to health care. “There is a health challenge in the country and this outreach is to provide means of succor to the people and it is not just to spread the word of God, we also want it to be tangible, something that can impart the people,” he asserted. Medical Officer of Health, Dr. Akintoba Akintayo, said the initiative was welcomed by them as it was obvious that government cannot do it alone and there is the need to collaborate with organisations interested in delivering good health to the people. He said so many persons cannot afford health care services due to the economic situation of the country which makes it necessary for government to partner with those interested in affecting people’s lives positively. Dr. Shola Abodunrin, head of medical missions, said they embarked on the outreach as part of their contributions to the development of the society and creation of wealth as only health humans can create wealth. A beneficiary, Ibrahim Adegoke, thanked the organisers for the initiative, saying it was what they have been hoping for. He said meeting freely with a specialist doctor at the outreach was a thing of joy to him as his needs were met and he was given drugs to take care of his ailments.