His entry into the often contentious, traitorous and slippery terrain of Nigerian politics was characteristically unobtrusive. It was former Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman, Professor Attahiru Jega, at his most unassuming as he joined the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) a few months ago.   Of course, Jega’s choice of the PRP as his political platform is hardly surprising. He has a proven track record as a brilliant and radical academic. Again, as Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) for a prolonged period in the mid 80’s to the mid 90’s Jega demonstrated  uncommon courage and resilience in leading the union to fight not only for better welfare for academics but also for better funding of universities. ASUU won many battles in its struggles even at the height of the most despicable military dictatorship even though many of its members were subjected to the worst forms of victimization, humiliation and oppression. There is no way to write the history of ASUU especially in its golden era under military rule without Jega’s name emblazoned in gold along with scores of several other pro-democracy activists. Professor Jega, however, came to the forefront of public consciousness when he was appointed National Chairman of INEC by former President Goodluck Jonathan. The height of his glory in his role as head of the country’s electoral umpire was Jega’s amazingly successful organization of the 2015 general elections. The polls were widely commended both by internal and external election observers. It was a milestone in the continuing evolution of Nigeria’s electoral system especially when for the first time ever, an incumbent was defeated at the centre and a new party assumed the reins of power. It is unfortunate that rather than consolidating and improving on Jega’s legacy at INEC, however, the quality, credibility, and integrity of the electoral process have been gradually but systematically eroded under the incumbent INEC Chairman, Professor Yakubu Mahmood. But then, given his intellectual acumen and national, pan-Nigerian outlook, should Jega not have joined one of the two dominant parties rather than casting his lot with a PRP that lacks the resources to build a formidable national platform on which elections can be won or lost? Had Jega opted to join the APC or PDP, he would have betrayed all the progressive values and radical ideology he has stood for all his life. But the question then would be, “Why has Professor Jega chosen to come on the political terrain?”. If his goal is to seek and win power at any level of his choice on the platform of a political party, then he has made a huge error in not joining the PDP or the APC. But if his aim is to join other progressive individuals and groups to work towards the emergence of a genuine third force to contrast sharply with the APC and PDP, the professor is certainly on the right track. PRP is the most consistent party organization in this dispensation in terms of commitment to a set of principles, ideological clarity as well as having a core set of positive values. The party draws its values from the late Mallam Aminu Kano, who had consistently fought for the emancipation of the ‘talakawa’, the masses of the north throughout his life. These are also the values and attributes we can find in Professor Jega’s writings over the years as well as his labour activism as Chairman of ASUU. It is not surprising that in a bid to re-position itself, the party has assigned Jega to head a committee, SWOT Anaysis committee. The function of this committee is to undertake an intense interrogation of the PRP’s  strengths, weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats with a view to repositioning the party for a more national spread and appeal in the run up to forthcoming elections. The PRP sets a good example here. How many of the parties and individuals that flaunted their illusory electoral strength in the run up to the 2019 general elections have been heard from or seen since the conclusion of the election? They have gone home to rest until they will be back on the campaign train when the next set of elections is approaching. But conceiving, forming, nurturing and running effective political parties is hard, back-breaking work. Elections are not won on the television and radio talk shows or the capacity for lofty rhetoric and elegant prose. No, you must build formidable party structures with roots in a substantial number of wards across the country to become electorally invincible in Nigeria. But then, will Professor Jega stay put to face the challenges of the assignment he has been given in the PRP or will he migrate to either of the two dominant parties? If that happens, he will I assume be more predisposed to the APC than the PDP, even though both parties are ideologically and philosophically indistinct. Is there the possibility that Jega can be drawn into the race for 2023 by elements who have vociferously asserted that power will remain in the north after 2023? Those who hold this view would be hoping that bringing a candidate with the stature and antecedents of Jega will help overcome any regional or sectional resentment by those who insist that the political elite must abide by the zoning formula that has largely predominated elections into office in this dispensation. Now, will Professor Jega swallow this bait if offered? I doubt it. He is too astute a political thinker to offer himself up for demystification. Yes, there must from now on a common front that merit rather than zoning should be the key factor in deciding who run for office on party platforms. This view was espoused by Kaduna State governor, Nasir el’Rufai early in the year and this column backed him. No region or zone should be gifted the presidency on a platter of gold just because it claims it is its turn to have the office zoned to the area. But zoning and merit are not incompatible if each part of the country produces her best and most qualified candidates to contest elections. Another dilemma that Jega should care about if he allows himself to be drawn into the race by any of the two major parties, is this: Having just left office as INEC Chairman after the 2015 elections, has he become emotionally detached from the commission to run as a credible candidate? If he contests, will he not be doing so having an undue advantage over others in the race? Does he not still have substantial number of staff in the commission who will be obliged to him in one way or the other? Is he not still acutely aware of insider systems and procedures within INEC that will at once give him an edge over his opponents in an election? I sincerely believe that no INEC Chairman should contest elections on the platform of any party until two decades after leaving office.  Professor Jega is a man of intellect and character. He must not allow mischievous politicians to mislead him.