By Damola Kola-Dare  Some experts at the maiden Parenting Summit organised by Brainy Educare Services last Saturday in Lagos enlightened parents on new trends in parenting practices in the 21st century. The summit which had as theme: New Age Parenting: Standing up to the challenge, had facilitators such as Ms. Yemi Ransome-Kuti, founder Nigerian Network of Non-Governmental organisations; Mrs. Abiola Somolu, Director, Playhouse Children Centre; Dr Afolabi Aroyewun, Clinical Psychologist and lecturer in University of Lagos (UNILAG). Others were: Mrs. Muslimah Gbajumo-Apampa, Insurance Consultant, Life Coach and Marriage Counsellor; and Mrs Abiodun Odunukwe, founder Redefined Womanhood Initiative. Speaking on the topic: What has changed?, Ms. Ransome-Kuti decried the current loss of values in the society and charged the parents to be value-driven. She said: “The state of our moral values here is low.  Parents should instill good values in their children. We have to cleanse every system; character should define you and not anything material.” The discussants urged the parents to sharpen their parenting skills while stressing the need for effective parenting and making certain decisions that enhance child development. They also urged the parents to spend quality time with their wards and create room for open communication. Dr. Aroyewun while speaking on societal influence on children noted that because of globalisation, many children were not conversant with Nigerian culture. He said: “Globalisation has changed the children.  If you want to raise a Nigerian child, set your boundaries and follow it up. We are raising a confused generation.” He added that parents should censor time their wards spend on the social media to prevent unethical practices among children.  “As regards social media, restrict them on what they should do on their phones, the social media space should be controlled to prevent children from negative influence,” he said. The second session  which featured a discourse on “Parenting Children with Special needs” had Mrs. Bukola Ayinde, founder of Diary of a Special  Needs Mom Initiative; Doyinsola Adebomehin, Co-ordinator TLP Centre; Mrs Qudrat Balogun, farmer and entrepreneur; and Mr Abdulazeez Balogun, an engineer as panelists. The general consensus was that children with special needs should not be segregated but shown love, care and support. Mrs. Balogun said: “All children are special. Those with special needs have been designed like that by God and are created in different ways. They have mental, physical, and psychological challenges and they should be supported.” Earlier in her speech, the Director, Brainy Educare Services, Dr. Eniola Olajobi, charged parents not to shirk their responsibilities, saying the disorders affecting children could be addressed through effective parenting. She said: “As parents, let us rise to address the disorders affecting our children and not run away from your responsibilities. Parenting is no more business as usual.”