 Six persons have been arrested by the police in Lagos for their alleged involvement in different murders, the command said on Sunday. One of the suspects, Amos Ekuma, a resident of 59, Ajipon Street, Ogijo in Ogun State allegedly pushed a dry learner to death on Friday night at Sabo, Ikorodu. Ekuma, the police said, submitted himself on Saturday afternoon at Ikorodu Division after the deceased, known as Actor died at the hospital where he was rushed the previous night. It was gathered that the incident occurred around 7pm around Kokoro Abu after Actor attacked Ekuma with an iron rod following a disagreement the duo had earlier that day. Although neighbours were said to have intervened in the scuffle and brokered peace, a dissatisfied Actor, Ekuma said, attacked him when he was not expecting it and in retaliation, he pushed him off. Unfortunately, the push off landed Actor at the General Hospital Ikorodu where he died on Saturday from injuries he sustained. According to police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), the corpse was deposited in the mortuary for autopsy, adding that the suspect was taken into custody. He said discreet investigation into the case by detectives from homicide unit, State Criminal Investigation Department (SCIIDA), Yaba, had commenced. Similarly, Elkana said three suspected cultists were arrested for killing one Enoch Obaro, whose body they dismembered and dumped in a bush. He said the deceased’s wife Yemisi Obaro reported at Agbowa Police Station that her husband left home in the morning and did not return. She reported that all efforts to trace his location were unsuccessful. Elkana said: “Messages were sent to all police stations across the state through the Police Control Room to help in finding the missing person. On December 8, the police received a call that the remains of the missing person was sighted at an isolated bushy area at Fadayin junction,  Imota, Ikorodu. “A team of homicide detectives was drafted to the scene and the decomposing body evacuated for autopsy. The corpse was mutilated with the two hands severed and  a leg cut off. “Expended cartridges and broken bricks were equally recovered at the scene. Three suspects were arrested in connection with the murder. They are members of Aiye confraternity who were on police wanted list for various offences ranging from armed robbery, violent attacks, cultism and land grabbing.” In another development, Elkana said one Ayanda Yemi reported at Elemero Police Station that three armed robbers invaded his house and locked them inside a room. “The victim said he was tied him up and disposed of his techno phone and car key, prompting him to raise an alarm which attracted neighbours. “One of the suspects, Ibrahim Hassan was instantly arrested while the remaining two escaped. “Detectives conducted a thorough and painstaking investigation and finally arrested the two fleeing suspects,” he said. Meanwhile, the command also arrested one Liasu Raji, a security guard attached to Luri Filling Station, for unlawful possession of firearms at Morogbo. The spokesman said the suspect was arrested with an English pump action, a single barrel riffle with ten rounds of live cartridges. He said investigation was ongoing in all cases and suspects would be charged to court.