Our Reporter  The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG)  plans to build a new secretariat valued at N5.5billion. The new secretariat will be named NUPENG Tower, according to the union. At the groundbreaking of the project in Lagos, the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, described the tower which is projected to be eight floors as a massive project. Kyari, who spoke through the Managing Director, Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Bala Wunti, expressed confidence that NUPENG would execute the project. He said: “The NUPENG Tower, a multi-billion naira project of eight floors with all the services included is a massive project, but who says NUPENG cannot do it?  “There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind that with the uncommon commitment, dedication, and determination NUPENG always deploys to all its struggles, this project will not be an exception.” He pledged the support of the NNPC to the project, saying, “we will go on this journey with you as we urge you to be bold, courageous, determined and frugal so as to achieve this dream within the timeline set for it.” He praised the petroleum tanker drivers branch of the union whose patience and endurance in the face of hard times had ensured that the “oil kept flowing” in Nigeria. In his remarks, the National President, NUPENG, Williams Akporeha, recalled that the union had resolved to build the NUPENG Tower during its 40th anniversary last year. He said: “NUPENG Tower is a multi billion naira project, a mix  structure of residential, recreational and office building of eight floors with all the services including lift, adequate car park, water treatment facility, event/conference halls, offices for NUPENG staff, officials and corporate bodies, flats and a penthouse. “The project is expected to be completed within a period of two years, almighty God willing.” Akporeha explained that the infrastructural initiatives embarked on by the union were aimed at enhancing its efficiency and effectiveness.