 The General Overseer of Christ Apostolic Church, Agbala Olotun ni Gbani, Pastor Moses Olagunju, has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to make frantic effort to relieve corrupt persons serving under his government of their appointments as that will strengthen the anti-corruption efforts of his administration. He said this in an interview with The Nation ahead of the church’s 14-day Freedom Festival which starts today at the church headquarters in Egbeda, Lagos. The festival is tagged: In the beginning and will bring together thousands of Christian faithful, feature prayers, bible teachings, song rendition and prophetic ministration. He said that the anti-corruption efforts of the federal government is commendable, as it is boosting investor confidence in the Nigerian market and is creating a positive image of the country. Olagunju noted that Nigerians will support the anti-corruption fight of the government if the president relieves corrupt or alleged corrupt individuals serving in his cabinet. He noted that corruption in public spaces has brought Nigeria to its knees over the years and must be addressed decisively if Nigeria will ever make progress. God, he claimed, told him that Nigeria will continue to suffer because of the sins of and wicked practices by selfish and corrupt leaders, adding that President Buhari is on the right path but must not harbour corrupt persons in his administration. He went further to charge church leaders to continue to speak truth to power and intentionally prepare men for heaven. Olagunju warned ministers of God who have forgotten their calling and are focusing on acquiring money, fame and power. “If you acquire all the money, cars, and other material things of life and you continue to deceive the people, what will be your gain at end of the day?” He asked He added that if we place our priorities on deliverance, healing and prosperity of our congregants without repentance and genuine salvation, they will continue to be under perpetual bondage and torture of the devil. He stated further that the essence of the Freedom Festival is to celebrate the day he gave his lives to Jesus in 1986 and since then, he has taken out time to reach out to as many people as possible with the message of the gospel of Jesus. 