By Dr Joel Akande  The skin, in part, is a barrier against external attack. In another part, our skin defends us against diseases. Yet, our skin may be the face of what we carry internally or as a front shop for our lifestyles. In this article, we will discuss how infections that we suffer from manifest through and in our skin.  To this category belongs sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and non-sexually transmitted diseases. STDs and the human skin: STDs are caused by microorganisms that are transmitted through sex. Amongst this class are bacteria: N. Gonorrhoea causing gonorrhea, chlamydia trachomatis agents of syphilis. Others are Heamophylus ducreyi and U. urealyticum. Virus:  Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and 2 (HIV).  Herpes simplex, Hepatitis B and C,  human papilloma virus, human lymphotropic virus (HTLV-1) and molluscum contagiousm. Parasites include T. vaginalis and G. G lamblia, vaginalis, P publis. Readers may be surprised that there are some microorganisms that are sexually transmitted, but in essence they are not so defined. Examples are E.coli, staphyloccosus and streptococcus bacteria. Fungus can also be sexually transmitted. Example is yeast that is especially common in reproductive age women and men. Why is the skin involved? Except the victim uses barrier methods such as condom during sex, skin (penis) insertion into body cavity (vagina, mouth etc) may get into contact with resident bacteria or viruses or parasites (in mouth, penis, vagina) that get transmitted from one person to the other. Consequences: The following may follow STDs (1) urethral discharge:  This is the commonest symptom of and STD.  This is especially so in men. Urethral discharge in women is uncommon; rather vaginal discharge appears to be the rule.  Commonest causes of penile or urethral discharge are gonorrohea and chlamydia, T vaginalis, candida, and U. urealyticum – all of which are sexually transmissible;  (2) swelling of scrotum: In men, the scrotum may become swollen and painful in a condition called epididymo-orchitis.  The most important cause is gonorrhea. Staph and E.coli and chlamydia have also been known to cause this condition; (3) In women, vaginal discharge are common presentation of STDs and non-STDs.  In complicated event, pelvic inflammatory disease may occur. Infertility may follow; (4) In both men and women, ulceration of local vaginal areas and penis may occur; (5) The groin may become swollen and painful as well; (6) Syphilis is notorious in showing up in the skin. After the initial exposure, 2-4 weeks and up to 90 days, the genital (penis or vulva/vagina), lips, tongue (kissing) fingers, anus (anorectal penetration), may show ulcer or chancre. This is called the primary lesion. Three to four months after, the secondary lesion appears that may affect the genitals and other parts of the body. Meanwhile, syphilis may affect newborn from the womb. It appears bulbous eruption on palms and soles, knees and elbows; (7) HIV affects the skin too. The skin plays a key role in manifestation of both AIDS and HIV. Some are indeed unique to HIV. Generalised itching without skin eruption may occur. AIDS may show skin rashes, which are easily recognised by clinical doctors. Treatment: The key message here is that if you experience unusual ulcers in your genitals, body itching or swelling in the groin, it may be a sign of an ongoing infection. It may signal sexually transmitted infection. Rashes that may appear innocent may be a sign of something more serious and or life threatening. Thus, it’s particularly important that you pay attention to events happening in your skin. Go to see a competent and qualified physician for evaluation as soon as possible.  Do not delay. 