Progress OBERIKO As at 2018 Nigeria was ranked 6th in annual suicide list. I wonder what position will be in our report card this year.  O Lord, do not allow us rise to first. This rise in suicide deaths is appalling, alarming and astonishing; it wasn’t so in the good old days. I can recall Chukwuemeka Akachi, a poet who dropped a suicide note on Facebook saying “He doesn’t wish to be a burden to anyone anymore, because he has been on life support which he claims to be expensive”; but he failed to realize that his own LIFE is far more expensive. He was a poet, he WRITES, but he had no RIGHT to take his own life, a life which only the “WRIGHT” has the power to control. He wrote in death’s language in the wildest ways, because he had had a rapport with death in his suicide mission. Like the myriad of other suicide deaths whose name I cannot even recall. …The guy who killed himself in Portharcourt as a result of heartbreak. …The student who was found dead in her room after drinking sniper. …The RCCG pastor in Abuja who took his own life And all other heartbreaking completed acts of suicide, including the ones that didn’t go viral. It is too much already! We begin to cultivate thoughts of suicide when we compare our man made time with God’s. We program our time to automatically work for Him, Forgetting that His ways is not ours; 30yrs in your calendar is merely 3minutes on His wall clock! Brother hold on!  “Gods Time is the best no mean say make you go tiff wall clock commot from church o”. What this means can be coined in one word – PATIENCE! Yes I have actually been contemplating suicide, but not in the context of “Taking my own life”, God forbid! Na me create myself? But rather I’ve been thinking about suicide in the context of “WHY DO PEOPLE TAKE THEIR OWN LIVES”? Why! So I’m writing this piece in the language of a suicidal; lending my voice to all those frustrated and are contemplating suicide; You need to come back to life, because by merely having the thoughts of suicide, you have started killing your self, you’re dying, you need to WAKE UP! In my definition; Suicide is a PERMANENT ELIMINATION of the SOLUTION to a TEMPORARY problem. Suicide most times seems like a gateway to freedom, and escape from all the trauma & wahala of life! But NO! It is instead a permanent termination of a generation full of SOLUTIONS! Your life is not even your own, do not take what you never gave! SayNoToSuicide Don’t Do It! You know why? Because YOU are the SOLUTION to your problems. Trust God! When you say it is IMPOSSIBLE, – “He says All things are possible through Me”! Luke 18:27. When you say I am too tired, – He says “I will give you rest”! Matthew 11:28 When you say “Nobody loves me”.