By Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has advised the United States of America (USA) to avoid relying on one-sided intelligence on happenings in Nigeria when making decisions. The President gave the advice on Tuesday while receiving Letters of Credence of new United States of America’s Ambassador to Nigeria, Ms Mary Beth Leonard. Buhari advised that sources of intelligence should cut across all sectors of the country, noting that some people might provide misleading and manipulative narratives for self-serving purposes, ignoring the larger picture of a united country. According to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President said the recent listing of Nigeria for human rights concerns created an impression that some people were being unfairly treated or marginalised in the country. He, however, told the new Ambassador that he has been fair in his dealings with all segments of the country, noting that he has so far kept faith with the oath he took as President. “I know that those with access have created an impression of being marginalized. I sit here with a clear conscience. I took an oath and I am honouring the office,’’ he said. Buhari said he took some time to explain the situation in the country when he met with President Donald Trump in Washington DC as the American President expressed concern with reports of attacks on segments of the society. “It is not an easy task to work for the unity of the country, and I am doing my best. During your stay in the country I am asking you to ensure that your sources of strategic information cut across,’’ he added. The President urged the envoy to use the opportunity of her posting to Nigeria, with her experience, knowledge and energy to get the facts on the country. The United States Ambassador said Nigeria was listed on a watch list to deepen conversation on the humanitarian situation in the country, accepting that some people could “flare the flames and crystalize issues’’ that could affect peaceful-coexistence. “There are people who make things less attractive than they seem,’’ she said, noting that the report will deepen conversation of the situation in the country, especially with religious leaders and mediators. “I want to assure that the United States recognizes and celebrates the integration in Nigeria.’’ She said the United States will always side with transparent processes. The Ambassador said Nigerians and America have a lot in common in terms of “being big among neighbours, enthusiastic and entrepreneurial”. Leonard assured President Buhari of support from the United States, especially on the humanitarian challenges, while appreciating the willingness to always share useful information and intelligence with her country. “I feel it’s a privilege and great honour to be here; coming to see the giant of Africa. I have worked for 30 decades before coming to Nigeria. We will do a lot together for peace, security and delivering humanitarian assistance,’’ she added. Buhari also received Letters of Credence from the High Commissioner of Sri Lanka to Nigeria, Ahamed Lebbe Sabarullah Khan. The President appreciated the country for supporting Nigeria to provide the President of the United Nations General Assembly.