By Victor Akande  REALNESS Residency has developed 20 film projects in 13 African countries its four years running. Creative Producer Indaba is a year-long professional development program that will bring together 15 participants to develop the capacity of producers on the continent and create a pan-African network of producing talent with the ability to bring African projects to the international market.  Creative Producer Indaba aims to empower producers from Africa with industry tools and business strategies for entrepreneurial development. Thereby expanding sustainable infrastructure and bridging the gap between financial support from North America and Europe, and the lack of policies and treaties in place that could catalyze this support.  Creative Producer Indaba is an initiative presented in partnership with EAVE, International Film Festival Rotterdam’s IFFR Pro and Sundance Institute. Realness Residency is six-week program that takes place in the stunning Cradle of Humankind in South Africa, where the residents undergo focused incubation. Writers are given the space and support to refine their projects from a creative perspective, as well as to position their projects to industry partners for potential financing and production. From the 2019 cohort, the following filmmakers have been granted the following awards by the Realness Institute’s partners: Iman Djionne (Senegal) and Athi-Patra Ruga (South Africa) both attended Locarno Filmmaker’s Academy, Silas Miami’s (Kenya) project and producer, Carol Kioko, were selected for the TorinoFilmLab Meeting Event and Beza Hailu Lemma (Ethiopia) was selected to attend the TIFF Filmmaker Lab. Over and above their Realness awards, Iman Djionne has been selected for Atlas Workshops taking place in December at the Marrakesh International Film Festival. Both Beza Hailu Lemma and Iman Djionne have also been selected for Produire Au Sud in Nantes. ‘There is nothing like it in Africa, especially for African filmmakers, nothing like this exists… It gives space for emerging filmmakers to just swim in their imagination and give them everything that they need to achieving that dream of making a really good first feature film,’ said Beza Hailu Lemma, Ethiopia, Realness 2019.  Realness Institute strives to empower African filmmaker and unearth the wealth of African stories; real stories from the continent, told with an honest and unapologetic point of view by African filmmakers. The Institute is also thrilled to expand its partnership with IFFR Pro form the Creative Producer program into the Screenwriter’s residency with a scholarship for a Realness producer to attend Rotterdam Lab. Mmabatho Kau, producer of Fanyana Hlabangane’s (South Africa) 2019 Realness Project, has been nominated to attend the Rotterdam Lab in 2020.  “We are very happy that an emergent African producer selected within Realness Residency, the pan-African programme dedicated to develop and support the next generation of screenwriting talent, will take part in the 20th edition of Rotterdam Lab, thanks to the new partnership with IFFR Pro and Realness Institute.  “The selected producer will attend IFFR together with a group of over 70 emerging producers coming from all over the world to experience an important co-production market like CineMart first hand. “Rotterdam Lab participants will be provided with a tailored programme which will give them the confidence and skills to navigate the international market space, through workshops, pitching training and active and open round-table sessions with industry experts. “Rotterdam Lab 2020 will take place during the 49th edition of the International Film Festival Rotterdam,” said Alessia Acone, Rotterdam Lab Coordinator. The call for submissions for both Realness Residency and Creative Producer Indaba opened on November 15, 2019 and will close on January 31, 2020. More information and application forms can be found at realness.institute./ (e) submissions@realness.institute. Realness Institute is an initiative by Urucu Media in partnership with: Berlinale Talents, CNC (Le Centre National du Cinéma et de L’image Animée), Cocoon Productions, Deuxieme Ligne Films, Durban FilmMart, The Durban International Film Festival, Durban Talents, EAVE, IEFTA, Institute Français, The French Institute of South Africa, International Film Festival Rotterdam’s IFFR Pro, Toronto International Film Festival, TIFF Filmmaker Lab, Locarno Filmmaker’s Academy, Nirox Foundation, Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie, Robert Bosch Stiftung, Sundance Institute and TorinoFilmLab.