Commander, 107 Air Maritime Group, Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Benin City, Group Captain Nasiru Saidu, has commended the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, for rejigging the state’s security architecture, noting that the government’s collaboration with security agencies has ensured peace and development in Edo State. Saidu said this while receiving the governor’s Special Adviser on Security Matters, Yusuf Haruna, who paid him a courtesy visit. The Commander said the 107 Air Maritime Group is collaborating with the Edo State Government to provide 24-hour control of the night landing facilities at the Benin Airport, after the state government facilitated the installation of the expensive aviation equipment. Saidu added, “We have been rendering assistance to Edo State Government in general and we will continue to collaborate with the government when the need arises, and we will do our best in terms of security. We have our men on patrol 24 hours at the Benin Airport and this has safeguarded the night landing facilities at the Airport.” He said the NAF has continued to enjoy good and harmonious relationship with Edo State Government and has rendered some important services to the state. “We have had a smooth and cordial relationship with the state government. We have been collaborating with our sister agencies and we are doing our best to keep the state safe and peaceful. Edo State Government, under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki, has executed some projects for us and we have had good working relationship, which has led to growth and development in the state. “We have responded to distress calls on fire disasters within the state by sending our firefighters whenever there are fire outbreaks. We are always the first point of call in such instances.” Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Security Matters, Haruna Yusuf said the Edo State Government has enjoyed robust relationship with the Nigerian Air Force, commending the pivotal role played by the Airforce in maintaining peace and order in the state and country. He said the visit would further strengthen the relationship of the NAF with the state government in promoting security. “The state has enjoyed good relationship with the Airforce; Edo State has enjoyed peace, growth and development. We are aware that there can’t be development without security, hence, we need the collaboration and cooperation of security agencies in Edo State to ensure the state continues to enjoy peace and development’, the governor’s aide noted. Yusuf urged Edo people to go about their normal daily activities during this festive period as Edo State Government has put all modalities on ground to keep the state safe for all citizens. “All the security agencies have expressed their readiness to fight crime and criminality in the state, ensuring peace and development in Edo State,” he said.