Our Reporter  Global law firm Hogan Lovells has collaborated with Aluko & Oyebode, Lagos Chamber of Commerce International Arbitration Centre (LACIAC) , Legal Division, the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) to organise a two-day training session for some workers of NLNG. The training took place at the NLNG premises on Bonny Island, Rivers State. It was an opportunity for participants to engage in constructive and interactive sessions with legal experts. The panel of speakers included Hogan Lovells’ London-based partners Nathan Searle, Angus Rankin, and Hogan Lovells International Arbitration lawyer Dr. Ademola Bamgbose; Babatunde Fagbohunlu, SAN, Construction Law and Arbitration lawyer Ngo-Martins Okonmah, Dare Senbore of Aluko & Oyebode; and Funmi Iyayi Managing Director, LACIAC. The discussions revolved around the management of legal risk, international business disputes particularly with regard to Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracts in the oil and gas sector. It also included an overview of the governing laws of the industry and challenges experienced by arbitration practitioners in the Nigerian context. The session provided a platform for participants to discuss global best legal practices and trends as well as explore the issues and opportunities across the liquefied natural gas (LNG) sector in Nigeria. Hogan Lovells partner, Nathan Searle, expressed confidence in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry and said it has a strong future. Acknowledging that Nigeria has one of the largest gas reserves in the world, with NLNG being the fifth largest  producer of LNG in the world, Searle said there is a need to further harness the sector’s potential by continuing to build on existing knowledge through trainings like these. “NLNG is growing in Africa and looking at Nigeria over the past decade. It has had a significant number of international transactions despite difficult market conditions. This has given the industry a strong profile internationally. Through this training, we shared global best practices and solutions that can lead to the sustainable growth of Nigeria’s oil and gas sector; and we are glad to be amongst the thought leaders that shape the way this sector addresses key issues going forward,” Searle said. “Discussions such as these provide an opportunity for the industry to focus on processes that will lead to generating increased value. We look forward to hosting more engagements like this across various sectors with other leading players in the African market,” he added.  Babatunde Fagbohunlu, SAN, Aluko & Oyebode senior partner said: “Large scale projects in the oil and gas sector carry risks and it is important that such risks are properly managed. Discussing how to manage such risks at an early stage from both a legal and commercial perspective is critical to minimising disruption to the business and loss of value. Training programmes such as this, which bring together legal experts and those working directly in industry to share their experience and insights on managing risks is the right step towards consolidating and building on best practice in the oil and gas sector in Nigeria.” The convener of the symposium, Managing Director, LACIAC, Funmi Iyayi, reiterated the body’s efforts towards providing tailored dispute management solutions and assisting businesses not only in the resolution but in the management of disputes through partnerships with local and global thought leaders. LACIAC sees an increasing role for arbitration under its rules to be included in contracts including the Nigerian oil and gas and construction sectors to provide for efficient, cost-effective and local dispute resolution of disputes that may arise during a project.