One-team with exciting 18 teenagers to lead Nigeria’s assault at the U19 World Cup Cricket South Africa 2020. Know the players in the national U-19 team aptly nicknamed the Junior Yellow Greens. SYLVESTER AMEH OKPE: He’s popularly known as ‘Sly’ and currently the captain of the Nigeria U19 World Cup Cricket Team. Born 7th December 2000, Sly is Kaduna-based and it’s in this cricket city that he learned to play the game to be a right-handed batman and right-arm off-break bowler. The teenager has grown in stature and captained the team at the Africa Division 1 qualifier tournament for the 2020 U19 Cricket World Cup. Apart from leading the team to historic World Cup qualification, he was rewarded with the player of the tournament. He was recently named the vice-captain of the Nigeria senior men’s cricket team. He plays club cricket for Government College Ibadan Cricket Club and also for Kaduna State. TAIWO MOHAMMED: Taiwo Mohammed who is the current vice-captain of Nigeria U19 World Cup cricket team. A left-arm fast bowler and left-handed batsman.  He is regarded as one of the best left-arm bowlers at his level and demonstrated as much at the Africa Division 1 qualifiers to secure the ticket for South Africa 2020. Mohammed is a Lagos-based cricketer with Ibeju Lekki 1 Cricket Club in the Division 1 Club Cricket Committee League. He has a twin sister who is one of his greatest supporters and an elder brother who also played for the country at this level.  SULAIMON RUNSEWE:  Hails from Oyo State and was born 7th August 2001. A very energetic and also a member of the men’s senior national cricket team.  He’s a right-handed opening batsman, wicket keeper and right-arm off-break bowler. Though a Muslim, Sule, as he’s fondly called, is also at home with Christian gospel music.   ISAAC DANLADI:  Born 4th September 2002. An experienced member of the Nigerian U19 World Cup cricket team. A Right-Handed Batsman, Wicket Keeper and Right-Arm Off-Break Bowler, Isaac is an integral member of the team and well known for his light-hearted jokes that ease off stress and bonding within the rank and file of the team.  Currently, he plays for Kaduna State as well as club cricket in Kaduna and Lagos.   PETER AHO:  A medium paced right-arm bowler, history will forever remember Aho for hitting the winning runs that got Nigeria her first ever U-19 Cricket World Cup appearance.   A very quiet member of the team but very economical in his bowling. Peter spends his leisure listening to music and playing games on his phone. He has captained Edo State team in the past and plays club cricket in Edo State for Foundation Cricket Club where he was part of the players that qualified his team back to Division 1.  OLALEYE ELIJAH:   Fondly called ‘Elli’ by close admirers. He’s a right-handed opening batsman and will best be remembered for his unbeaten 110runs of 153balls against Tanzania in the qualifiers for South Africa 2020 U-19 Cricket World Cup. Elli loves to bat and on his good day, he can single handed wreck an opponent. He plays for Lagos State and Club Cricket for the first division Ibeju Lekki Cricket Club.   RASHEED ABOLARIN:   The tallest member of the team; he was born 2nd October 2002 and hails from Kwara State. A right-arm fast paced bowler who is known for his Yorkers that can wreck any batsman’s wicket at a blink of an eye. He plays club cricket for Lagos Asians Cricket Club in the Lagos Division 1 League . He is expected to operate in tandem with left-arm paced Taiwo Mohammed.   SAMUEL MBA:   He is a solid right-handed opening batsman and second choice wicket keeper for the national U19 World Cup cricket team. Sammy, as he is fondly called by his mates, resides in Owerri where he learnt the ball and bat game. He has played in the Port-Harcourt and Lagos league where he stood out for his respective clubs.   JIMOH ABDULRAHMAN:   Jimoh is a right-arm all-rounder who bowls and bats for the team. He’s known for his power-hitting; he honed his skills in the northern part of Nigeria. Jimoh is known for his energetic and vocal behaviour on the pitch which spurs the team on the field of play. He loves cooking.   BONIFACE OCHE:  He is a right-arm spinner and a middle-order batsman. His bowling figure of 26-2-10 against Kenya during the qualifiers was very instrumental to the team’s qualifications. Boniface recently captained the North-West U17 team at the PWC U17 Championship where he led his team to victory claiming gold at the maiden event. Boniface is a solid all-rounder who hates to lose while on the field of play but usually exhibits sportsmanship when results go against his team.  AKHERE ISESELE:   Barely featured in the qualifiers but Akhere is a very solid all-rounder and his fielding skills can contribute immensely to the success of any team. Akhere can bowl with the new ball and also comes as a first or second change bowler and he is very effective when duty calls. He is yet to play Club Cricket outside Edo State but he is a solid member of the Edo State Team.  IFEANYI UBOH:  Port Harcourt-based medium pace opening bowler that swings the ball both ways and can be a nightmare to any unguarded opening batsman. Hoping to get capped at the 2020 World Cup in order to contribute on the field since he had long been a major support to the team from the boundaries. He recently got capped in the Lagos Division 1 League where he played for newly promoted Government College Ughelli Cricket Club   MIRACLE IKAIGE:   Miracle is a right-handed opening batsman but a proper ODI batsman that can go all the way to hold his end and bat out the overs. A very good slips fielder that can also keep the wickets and known for his patience at the crease while batting.    ISIAKA AUDU:  He’s also based in Port Harcourt. A seam bowler with decent pace and a handy lower-middle order batsman that can be very dangerous in the death overs having multiple variations of pace in his arsenal.  Also an opening bowler that cuts the ball so well against opposing batsmen. Did not feature during the qualifiers but fancies his chances to get into the first 11 at the World Cup.   MIRACLE AKHIGBE:  Akhigbe hails from Edo State and he’s one of the developmental players that  earned spots in the final team to the world cup. He is a right-handed opening batsman and a right arm off-spin bowler. He will also be hoping to get his first cap for Nigeria during the 2020 World cup.   PROSPER USENI:  Another developmental player on the team. He was born 7th March, 2006 in Benin City. He is a left-arm medium pace bowler and left-handed middle order batsman. He was discovered during the national Men’s U-17 Championship where he captained the team from South-South. He is known for his bowling and batting style. He loves playing table tennis at his leisure and admires cricketer Trent Boult of New Zealand.   NZUBE NWOKIKE:  Also, a developmental player with the prospect of becoming a great player in future. He was discovered during the national Men’s U-17 Championship after representing South-East and his bowling and batting prowess earned him a seat on the plane to South Africa 2020 U19 World Cup. He had an economy rate of under-six at the PWC Men’s U-17 Championship and he’s known for his big hitting abilities at the death.   CHIDI ONWUBUALILI:   Fondly called ‘Cheezzyy’; he is also a developmental player that was discovered during the national Men’s u17 Championship after representing North-West where he won the overall best bowler and most valuable player of the tournament. He will be hoping to gain valuable experience at the World Cup in South Africa.