To celebrate the yuletide and usher in a new decade, the Lagos State government has planned a week-long celebration. Tagged Greater Lagos Extravaganza, the festivities which starts on December 25, and extends to December 31 into 2020, holds simultaneously in different venues across Lagos. The festival would feature 35 free concerts in five IBILE regions of the state  – Ikeja, Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos Mainland and Epe. In Ikeja, the shows take place daily at Agege Stadium, in Badagry, the venue will be Badagry Grammar School, in Lagos Mainland, the venue will be Eko Atlantic City, in Epe, it will be Epe Youth Centre and in Ikorodu, it will take place at the Ikorodu Town Hall. The concerts start by 4pm daily and end after midnight. But on December 31, the concert will start by 12 noon and extend into the New Year. Speaking on Thursday in Lagos, Jermaine Sanwo-Olu, the Senior Special Adviser to the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Diaspora and foreign relations, said “the Greater Lagos Extravaganza will be unforgettable.” Continuing on the ‘One Lagos Fiesta’ which Lagos State celebrated previously, Sanwo-Olu said, “We’ve thought and deemed it fit to take the One Lagos Fiesta to a greater level.” He said that aside performances by superstars like Olamide, Zlatan, Naira Marley, Seyi Shay, Fireboy, DJ Spinall and others, upcoming acts in each locality like Small Doctor, Idowu West, Dotman,  Remiscent, Skiibii and Airboy would also be given a chance to showcase their talents. Sanwo-Olu also noted that there would be a talent hunt within that period. “We’re going to look for the best of the best in these areas and the Top five are going to be selected from each I.B.I.L.E region. Then, the top two from each region are going to perform at Eko Atlantic City for the grand finale.” He said that whoever wins the grand prize out of the 10 persons from the five regions would be placed at the Lagos Film Academy which would be launched soon. “We’re not only just identifying local talents, we’re also developing them,” Sanwo-Olu said. According to the Senior Special Adviser, “the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration wants to celebrate not just his administration’s vision and cross-over to a new year, but also to celebrate Lagosians, for not only supporting him to be governor but also for celebrating their enthusiastic never-say-die spirit and to put on a spectacle for the world to let them know that Lagos, the economic, entertainment, cultural and arts centre of Nigeria, is emerging now as that one representing he whole of Africa.” Sanwo-Olu said the Greater Lagos Extravaganza is also a source of empowerment, volunteering and training. “In the scheme of all these things, we’re also going to be having opportunities for people to have hands-on training for this work itself,” he said. “There are going to be a lot of volunteers that are going to come on board. And so, it’s a way of job creation and volunteering opportunities for the teeming number of Lagosians. “Also in these different venues, we’re going to be having stalls where people are going to be showcasing their goods, locally made foods – jollof rice, pounded yam, whatever it is they are going to be selling on that day. I believe that they’re going to register to get the stalls which they can contact the ministry of tourism, arts and culture. And also, they can reach us on social media handles to find out more information.” He also the state government is getting everyone involved in the one-week festival. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is going to be visiting every single place. He is going to go there. Not only him alone but with his cabinet members because they want to connect with the people. We’re running an inclusive government, one that doesn’t segregate itself from the people, one that wants to feel the pulse of the people, hear what they are feeling, see what they are going through.” He assured of optimum security and stated that all the law enforcement agencies in Lagos would be on ground to guarantee a fun and safe festival.