By Tajudeen Adebanjo  The Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria (ADSN) Akoka Branch has installed a Missioner. He is Alhaji AbdulFatai Popoola Eshilokun. The event, held at the branch’s mosque, featured the 5th Walimatul Quranic, where 19 pupils graduated. Among the principal guests that witnessed the event were ADSN National Chief Missioner Sheikh AbdurRahman Ahmad, Lagos State Council Chairman Alhaji AbdurRahman Salaudeen among others. Akoka Branch Chairman Alhaji Alade Bashir congratulated Alhaji Popoola. He urged the Missioner to bring fresh perspective into the running of the branch activities by adding value to the branch and moving it to the next level. He also congratulated the graduands. He advised the graduands to take the Islamic knowledge acquired serious. “Between western and Islamic education, there is none you can push aside. We believe that if they build on what they acquire, their future will be bright. They will be able to surmount challenges of life and other  life trials they may encounter as they grow older. If you are well grounded in Quranic injunctions they will excel in life” ADSN Lagos State Council Chairman Alhaji AbdurRahman Salaudeen said the installation of Missioners was parts of the directives of National Missioner, to decorate 25 approved missioners with turban. “This is the first installation.  By early next year, we will complete the rest,” he said.  According to him, one of the criteria of being a missioner at Ansar-ud-deen is minimum qualification of Diploma. He urged the missioner to uplift the spiritual knowledge of members of the branch, particularly bringing new innovation that will encourage other people to join the group The branch’s Chairperson, Alhaja Ganiyat Oluwatoyin Toluwaloju advised the graduands to be proud of Islam by showcasing the beauty of Islam. “Let your friends out there know that Islam is beautiful. Being a Muslim does not make you to be inferior, lift up your self-esteem and be proud of whom you are wherever you found themselves,” she said. Alhaji Popoola promised to ensure members are drill to the greatest height of spiritual elevation. He advised the graduands to search for more knowledge. “The graduands should ensure that they deepen their knowledge of Islam because Islamic knowledge is wide. You cannot limit yourself to one school of taught, it must be widened. Knowledge does not end in learning the Holy Quran; you still have to go further. Allow Islam to reflect in what you do so that you will be good ambassadors of this great branch,” he said.