From Onimisi Alao, Yola The Adamawa State House of Assembly is pushing for the establishment of a cottage hospital for secondary health care in every constituency. Adamawa State is structured into 25 legislative constituencies with a representative in the state House of Assembly. The Assembly which recently passed a resolution asking the state executive council to build a cottage hospital in every constituency that does not have it, said during an event at the Assembly complex in Yola that it will ensure the 2020 budget makes provision for the cottage hospitals. The Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt Hon Aminu Iya Abbas, who spoke through the member representing Shelleng, Hon Abubakar Isa, said at a Stakeholders Engagement on Health Bills, organised by the International Republican Institute (IRI), said health delivery in suburban and rural settlements is appalling and some progress will be made if cottage hospitals are located in state constituencies where they do not exist. Primary health centres are already fairly well spread, offering primary health care in communities around Adamawa State, but the Assembly contends that more facilities such as cottage hospitals are needed to offer higher level medical attention and to complement the five general hospitals around the state. “We’ve passed a resolution asking that every House of Assembly constituency in the state ithat does not have a cottage hospital should have one. We’ve just received the 2020 budget proposal. We’ll look at it with a view to providing sufficient funding for the project,” Hon Abubakar Isa said. The Stakeholders Engagement on Health Bills which meeting the lawmaker declared open at the House of Assembly Complex in Yola on behalf of the speaker, is an intervention of the IRI in which it offers technical assistance as a partner nongovernmental organisation. The Resident Programme Director of the IRI in Nigeria, Angela Wambugu, who spoke at the event, said the NGO is committed to providing technical support for improved service delivery. As part of the support, a consultant of the IRI, Dr Samuel Ogwuche, did at the event a critique of two health bills that the Assembly is working on, namely Adamawa State Health Insurance Amendment Bill, and Minimum Standard Bill (a bill which seeks to provide for quality assurance in health delivery.) The critique which incorporated recommendations, was meant to improve the contents of the bills, a fulfilment of IRI’s undertaking to partner the House of Assembly for effective legislation.