 The sum N40million has been allegedly stolen from the office of the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Bayelsa State government, Mrs. Ebizi Ndiomu-Brown. It was gathered that about seven policemen and operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) had been arrested and detained at the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the state police command. The office of the Deputy Chief of Staff is located within the Governor’s Office, which is the last floor with an exclusive staircase and heavy security devices. Sources in the office said workers were shocked when they resumed at the Governor’s Office on Thursday morning to discover that the office of the Deputy Chief of Staff was burgled. It was gathered that the safe where the money was kept was vandalised with all the money carted away. A source in Government House said the incident happened on Wednesday night adding that it caused confusion at the Opolo Government House, Yenagoa. He said: “The money stolen was N40million and not N800million. It happened at night. The office was burgled by unknown person but investigation has commenced. Seven policemen and operatives of the NSCDC were arrested and taken to the CID.” The detained policemen were said to be on duty when the office was burgled. The order for the arrest of the policemen on duty was reportedly given  by the State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Uche Anozia. But a source in the Governor’s Office, who spoke in confidence, said N3.5million was stolen from the office. “It is true that the office was burgled. But it is not true that N800m or N40m was stolen. About N3.5m was stolen. We are only worried that an exclusive part of Government House, the governor’s office could be burgled despite heavy security details. The police are investigating the matter and we can only wait for their findings,” he said. The Police Public Relations Officer, Butswat Asinim, said N3.5m was missing. Asinim said: “On 5th December, 2019, at about 0850 hours, the command received a report of burglary and stealing in the office of the Deputy Chief of Staff, Government House, Yenagoa. “It was reported that the main entrance door to the office of the Deputy Chief of Staff was broken and the safe inside the office were destroyed. “The crime scene was visited by policemen and it was further revealed that the sum of  N3.5 million was stolen. “Three Policemen, four personnel of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and one maintenance staff on guard duty at the Governor’s Office were arrested and are being interrogated at the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department, Yenagoa. Investigation is ongoing.”