Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  Dr. Somadina Ikedife, son to former President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Dr. Dozie Ikedife has described his late father as a symbol of simplicity but a man of many parts. Somadina said the elderstateman was a deep and free thinker who interacted with everyone with an inquisitive but open mind. In a statement titled “A View of an Avatar”, issued on Tuesday in Nnewi, Anambra state to mark one year late Ikedife joined his ancestors, Somadina said his late father had very poor tolerance for dishonesty. He said, “My dad cherished the Catholic priests for their depth of knowledge, the Jehovah’s Witnesses for their strong character, the traditional religions for their punitive system, and the Islamic call “Al akhbar” because he believed that God is really great. “These created a bit of confusion to many minds about his religious affiliation. “He welcomed those various groups he interacted with, but belonged to none of them.” According to him, late Ikedife who died on December 11, 2018, became a very prolific reader and eagerly sort knowledge. He revealed that the late Ikedife placed much value on education that he preferred starving to ensure hundreds got a university degree. “He acquired his first degree in Anthropology, University of London whilst an undergraduate medical student at University of Glasgow, Scotland. “This degree and further quest for knowledge exposed him to different philosophies, religions, sects, cults and schools of thoughts,” he stated. Somadina, who has taken over the management of Ikedife Hospital, Nnewi, Anambra State, said his late father realized his physical frailty early in life after he had learnt that “strong men ruled the world.” He added, “Ikenga thought of other ways to develop his strength and chose to develop a very strong mind and character which lit in him a very strong desire to acquire knowledge and wisdom. “His kindness was widely displayed most through numerous free medical and surgical services especially to those who could not afford them. “He developed strong bonds with men and women at the head of these various groups. “My dad was averse to collecting gifts and very shy at asking for personal favours, yet would go miles seeking favours for others. “One needed no appointments to see his late father, all that was required was one’s patience for him to consult with his patients first then he would interact and engage with you in diverse topics irrespective of your background. “He had a very big sense of contentment, ever grateful to God for His many blessings to him. His prayers were always “thank God for His blessings and May God’s will be done.”  