Thousands thronged the Expo Centre of the Eko Hotel and Suites for the yearly musical youths’ fiesta, Musical Youth Fiesta Initiative (MYFI). With the theme: Sacrifice of Praise, a bouquet of churches and musical groups left the hall dancing with their musical skills, reports EVELYN OSAGIE.  Thousands of children, the young, dressing in multi-coloured attires, flocked the Expo Centre of Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. They were there for the interdenominational gospel concert, tagged: Musical Youth Fiesta Initiative (MYFI). The event, which debuted in December 2011 with 20 youth choirs and over 5,000 persons in attendance, has since become a yearly staple at Yuletide, in addition to being an enabling platform for children and youth of various backgrounds and denominations from across the state to exhibit their musical talents, interact and network whilst using music to celebrate God. The yearly fiesta initiated by the senator representing Lagos Central District, Mrs.  Oluremi Tinubu, was an occasion for revelry, thanksgiving and reminiscences.  Performances With the theme: “Sacrifice of Praise”, there were several highpoints at this year’s fiesta. As a usual custom at the fest, guests were treated to exciting performances by different church choir; but the presence of Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy Obafemi Hamzat, who joined other dignitaries to witness, added spice to this year’s edition. They attended in the company of their spouses – Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and Oluremi Hamzat. Many, particularly governor, will not forget in a hurry the energetic songs and dramatic musical performances. The classic performance of an all-men acapella group from Mountain of Fire and Miracles (MFM), stole the governor’s heart as they got him dancing and singing to their tunes. He was not alone. The group managed to keep guests, which included chairmen of several local governments dancing for over 30 minutes. The diverse performances of MFM, Redeemed Christian Church of God(RCCG), Christian Pentecostal Mission (CPM),  among other choirs, added a lot of flavour to the event. Each group gave their best on stage.  Praises, soul-winning  Like a young prophet, young Ganiyu Olayemi, who opened the prayers, chose his words carefully while praying for the event, guests and the country. This year’s had a unique twist to it. While guests were expecting a long speech from the convener as it was the practice for such events, Senator Tinubu began and ended hers with an altar call, to usher in God’s presence and loose the heaven over the worship session. For her, the concert was more than just another jamboree. “Each edition comes out by inspiration. Hebrew 13:15-16 says when we offer praise continually, God is well pleased. But the sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to God. I call on my Patron who used to be my teacher at the Bible College at RCCG, Pastor Bolarinwa to pray for the children. This year we are doing things differently,” she said. According to the convener, the ninth edition of MYFI was borne out of the concern for the state of our nation. She said: “We all, including the youth, have a role to play. Unpleasant incidents happening around us are not peculiar to our nation, Nigeria alone but are occurring in other nations around the world. For the church, it only signifies the return of our Saviour Jesus Christ, which could be any moment from now. Are you ready to meet the Lord if he comes today?  And may 2020 be crowned with God’s goodness, and our paths drop fatness in name.” On the significance of praise in the polity, Dr. Sanwo-Olu, observed: “This ninth edition, themed: ‘The sacrifice of praise’ is apt, considering what the country is going through. In praising God regularly and daily, He hears our prayers. It is obvious that the role of the youth is very important now. “It is said that ‘Out of the mouth of babes, we shall hear praises of the lord’. And so, our dear children in the lord, it is very important that you offer sacrifices of praises every day to lift up the souls and spirits of workers and leaders in Nigeria. I believe as we lift up our voices and praise God with all our heart, there will be a great turn around come 2020”. While commending the efforts of the convener, she restated the governor’s commitment towards education and youth development, she said: “Education still remains the passport for tomorrow to those who prepare for it today. But even in the midst of learning, there should also be avenues to showcase talents, like what we’re doing today. “For being steadfast in the development of our youths and sustaining this festival annually till date, I commend the distinguished Senator Tinubu, OON. With the positive impact it has achieved, I can only imagine the efforts put in to organising the event, yearly.”  Gifts It was also a banquet of gifts for guests. From the entrance into the hall, children and the young went home with all sorts of gifts, such as beverages, books, devotional and MTN special packs. According to the Chairman, Organising Committee, Pastor Kunle Ajayi,  “On behalf of the convener, Senator Tinubu, patron and members of the BOT of MYFI, I want to express my genuine gratitude to all, especially to God Almighty who has made this ninth edition possible and successful. “We are profoundly grateful for the display of gifts, skills and talents exhibited by the various choirs, drama groups, bands and individuals who added colour to this event. “May your gifts never diminish, but they will also let their light shine and spearhead the future that we hope for. We thank you all for being a part of this beautiful end to what has been a glorious year; and wish you joyous celebration this Christmas and beyond.”