 The Nation won three honours at the prestigious Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME) last night in Lagos. This newspaper had 11 nominations. It was the 28th edition of DAME organised by the Lanre Idowu-led Organisation. Awards were given for stories published in 2018. Assistant Editor Chikodi Okereocha’s “How smuggling stalls rice self-sufficiency target” won in the Agriculture Reporting category. Our reporter Oluwakemi Dauda and Isioma Madike of New Telegraph were the other nominees in the category. The Nation also won in the Sport Reporting category, where it had two nominations. Taiwo Alimi won with his entry: “The real winner of the World Cup,” published last July 29. Olalekan Okusan of The Nation was the second runner-up. Ajibade Olusesan of New Telegraph completed the list of nominees. Deputy News Editor Joseph Jibueze continued his winning streak by clinching the Judiciary Reporting category. His story: “Can the law tame murderous doctors?” beat entries by Ade Adesomoju and Afeez Hanafi, both of The Punch. Jibueze won back to back to make it the fifth time he will win the DAME Judicial Reporter of the Year award. The Nation was the first runner-up in the Newspaper of the Year category, which was won by The Punch. The Nation’s former editor Gbenga Omotoso, now Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, was the first runner-up in the Editor of the Year category, won by former The Punch editor Martin Ayankola. Musikiliu Mojeed of Premium Times was the other nominee. This newspaper also had a good outing in other categories. Senior Correspondent Kofoworola Belo-Osagie was a nominee in the Education Reporting category, in which she was the second runner-up. Cletus Ukpong of Premium Times won the category, beating Afeez Hanafi of The Punch. This newspaper had a nomination in the keenly-contested Investigative Reporting category with an entry by serial winner Innocent Duru. Fisayo Soyombo of The Cable won the category, with his entry: “With N46, 000 bribe, I drove a stolen car from Abuja to Lagos and back.” Abdulaziz Abdulaziz of Premium Times was the other nominee in the category. Duru was also a nominee in the Child-Friendly Reporting category, won by John Chikezie of New Telegraph. Jesusegun Alagbe of The Punch was the other nominee. Multiple award-winner Associate Editor Olatunji Ololade, was first runner-up in the Nutrition Reporting category with his entry: “Dangerous loaves,” published last November 17. Chioma Obinna of Vanguard won the category with her story: “Sad story of Nigeria’s stunted and ‘wasted’ children” Samson Folarin of The Punch was the other nominee. Besides Newspaper of The Year and Editor of The Year, The Punch also won the Best Designed Newspaper, beating ThisDay and Vanguard. The Punch cartoonist Bennet Omeke won the Editorial Cartooning category, beating New Telegraph cartoonist. The Punch also won the News Photography category, beating Premium Times and The Guardian. Premium Times reporter Nicholas Ibekwe won the Lagos Reporting category, sponsored by the Lagos State government. Other nominees in the category were Tunbosun Ogundare of Nigerian Tribune and Tope Omogbolagun of The Punch. Daily Trust won the Child-Friendly Medium category ahead of Vanguard and ThisDay. The Punch won the Editorial Writing award, beating The Guardian and Nigerian Tribune. Lasisi Olagunju of Nigerian Tribune beat Joel Nwokeoma of The Punch and Sulaimon Olanrewaju of Nigerian Tribune to win the Informed Commentary category. Nkoli Omhoudu of the African Independent Television won the Television Documentary category, beating Plus TV Africa reporters.