The Edo State Government has alleged that suspected arsonists, working in cohorts with unscrupulous politicians, burnt Ekiosa market and other markets to sabotage the government. Governor Godwin Obaseki, who spoke yesterday when he led members of the state executive council to inspect the extent of damage at Ekiosa market and the Edo Development Property Agency (EDPA), said that the incident was not an accident, but the handiwork of arsonists out to sabotage markets and discredit the state government. The governor, who approved the release of N100 million to compensate traders whose goods were destroyed in the fire, noted that it was unfortunate that several markets had been gutted by fire within a short period, a development he attributed to the antics of the enemies of the state. The reality of losses dawned on traders at Ekiosa market in Edo State on Monday. The victims’ shops were gutted by fire on Sunday afternoon. Many of the traders, who did not hear of the fire incident, collapsed on seeing their burnt or looted shops. They were rushed to hospital. Some scavenged the remains of their shops in search of scraps, to prevent scrap collectors from picking them. Some of the traders, who salvaged their goods before fire spread to their shops, resorted to street trading. The popular Second East and Third East Circular roads were taken over by traders, who displayed their wares, not minding being apprehended by officials of the Public Works Volunteer. Officials of the Edo Property Development Agency were seen outside discussing the incident. The top floor of the building adjacent to the market was razed by the fire. Sketchy details emerged about how the fire started, although some traders insisted it was the handiwork of arsonists. The market was razed and over 2000 birds, dogs and goats were burnt. It was gathered that the fire was caused by a power surge from one of the shops and efforts to put out the fire failed. The leader of market women in Edo State, Mrs. Blackky Omoregie, said it was shocking that three markets were gutted by fire within one month. She said the ancestors of Edo land would deal with those responsible for the fire. Omoregie said: “I know this is not the first one. We have had three markets that were burnt within one month. Oliha, Santana and this one. I know that the fire was caused by people who do not want the progress of this state, but this state is going to move forward. We are still compiling names of affected traders. If the people caused the fire, they will prevent the fire fighters from gaining access to put out the fire. Thieves looted traders’ goods yesterday. “All the market got burnt. We want the state government to assist the victims. I know the governor will rebuild this market.” Commissioner for Special Duties Damian Lawani, who visited the scene, said new fire trucks acquired by the government would be delivered on or before Friday. He, however, condemned frequent attacks on firemen. One of the affected traders, Mrs. Victoria Enagbaere, said she heard about the fire around 1pm on Sunday, but her shop had been gutted by fire before she arrived. “Before I got here, my shop had already been razed. I have generators and grinding machines. You can see that everything has been burnt. The machines I use in working are gone. I do not know where to start. The government should help us. This is Christmas. But it is bad that there are no firemen in this state.” Amara Onuegbunam, who sells kitchen equipment, said she lost so much money. Harriet Eze that deals in food items advised the government to recruit fire fighters. “This is the time to sell and buy things for children. There are many widows here. All we need is help,” she said.  