 What won’t you hear, see or read about when it comes to Nigerians and their passion for sports? From the obscene to the ridiculous are some of the scenarios you are confronted with, which tell the story of Nigeria – only unified by sports – no place for tribe and/or creed. How about this lamentation from an Arsenal fan who was in my office on Monday morning – angry, unable to understand what had befallen the Gunners, so much so any team can beat them, even at the club’s sacred ground – Emirates Stadium in London. Pity. Hear the Arsenal fan, dear reader: ” Oga, you see what I have been saying about my team, Arsenal? I advocated long ago that Arsenal’s management should go for Jose Mourinho. They kept faith with coaches who are not winners. See what Mourinho has done with Tottenham? Can you imagine Brighton beating Arsenal at the Emirates? ”Look Sir, in that game, Brighton, for instance, the visitors had more of the ball possession, more of the shots at goals, they had more of the corner kicks and free kicks. The only thing Arsenal players did better than Brighton was to get more yellow cards flashed at them by the referee.” I ‘collapsed’, almost choking because this colleague was dead serious and wasn’t in the mood for jokes. Omase o, I retorted and my colleague stormed out angry. He walked away from my office. A case of transferred aggression. I’ve brothers (please don’t ask me if they are older or younger than I), who  are avid supporters of Arsenal. One of them wrote on his WhatsApp chat after Arsenal’s home loss to Brighton last week, that he had dumped the Gunners. I couldn’t call him, knowing that it would have caused him more pain. My other brother who supports Arsenal has been bombarded with teasers from his friends. But he is adept in receiving such jokes and knows how to return fire-for-fire to his friends when their teams falter. Today’s column isn’t about Arsenal or other teams and how they are faring because the season is just gaining momentum. It would be unwise for anyone to make any predictions. However, the build-up to the Fight at the Dunes in Saudi Arabia last Saturday was very interesting with both boxers entertaining the media with different perspectives to the fight, which, on the hindsight  turned out to be an anti-climax. No knock downs. There was blood and that was the only time that one of the boxers realised that he had to box. He smelt blood and knew the implications on the umpires’ scorecards. However, Anthony Joshua drew the support of Nigerians when he entered the ring with one of the songs which endeared music lovers to the late Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, omi o lo ta (water no get enemy) blaring from the loudspeakers. The lyric typified what eventually happened, although most people couldn’t really follow the fight live on television. Indeed, Joshua has shown tremendous love for Nigeria, even though it hurts that he carries a British passport. The one got to represent England at the Olympic Games. We want to claim Joshua as a Nigerian, yet no local station could show the boxing bout against Andrés Ruiz Jr. But every TV/cable network in the UK beamed the historic event live across British cities. So, why the noise that he never mentioned Nigeria in his victory speech? How could Joshua mention Nigeria when he knows that over 200 million Nigerians relied on several parties to catch glimpses of his fight? Several supporters from England came to Saudi Arabia for the fight. And the loud noise  from where the fans sang, Joshua, Anthony Joshua , Joshua … took over the entire hall as they celebrated. “I want to thank God. I want to say that the first time was so nice, I just had to do it twice. A man like me don’t make no excuses. This is about boxing. I’m used to knocking guys out but I had to correct myself and put on a boxing master-class. You have to hit and not get hit. “I stay hungry and humble. Thank you to everyone, I don’t know what to say. So to everyone around the world and in this building – let’s go! “Careers are all about experiences, I took my ‘L’ and hit back. I’d do it all again, if you are heard, we going to do a third,” Joshua said in last Saturday’s post match analysis. Joshua is expected to be in Nigeria by the middle of January. He will be guest of President Muhammadu Buhari inside the seat of government Aso Rock in Abuja. What this shows is that the President recognises the importance of sports in reenergising the populace. The President has seen the Public Relations tool which sports uses to change people’s perception of the country. It was easy for the British media to tag Joshua a Nigerian in his troubling times with drugs and being on the wrong side of the law. But the moment Joshua became a celebrity, the narrative changed – Joshua became British born. Of course, he has been developed and taken out of his dark past to the part of glory which he presently enjoys. Sports minister Sunday Dare has shown remarkable understanding of the workings in sports with some of his decisions so far. Dare could use the interactive session with Anthony Joshua  next year to jumpstart the process of reviving boxing in the country. Joshua emerged from the dark corners where he took drug to stardom because the British government’s sports policy is robust. What the administrators did to Joshua was channel the energy in him positively to boxing. And it has paid off because there were trained coaches in the British boxing system who refined his skills and exposed him to the world at the Olympic Games. Joshua was transformed at the corrective centre by a system that works, which is lacking here because of the kind of ministers we have had. Today, Dare has changed the narrative. He has introduced several schemes to ensure that potential medallists are attached to sports friendly firms and individuals, with government’s function restricted to providing the facilities to train the athletes. With functional sports centres and coaches across the 774 Local Government Areas in the country, it would be easier for the budding stars to exercise and take to sports of their choice. President Buhari can impress it on Joshua to use his contacts in world boxing to get good coaches to visit the country periodically to train and re-train our coaches while working in our hinterlands to discover potential boxers to win laurels for the country. The new discoveries will open new horizon for themselves.  Nigeria did well in boxing winning medals and belts from our amateur boxers in the past. Dick Tiger was a Nigerian-born professional boxer who held the World Middleweight and World Light Heavyweight Championships. Tiger was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 1991. The Ring magazine named him Fighter of the Year in 1962 and 1965, while the Boxing Writers Association of America (BWAA) named him Fighter of the Year in 1962 and 1966. In 2002, Tiger was voted by The Ring magazine as the 31st greatest fighter of the last 80 years. Hogan “Kid” Bassey MBE was a Nigerian-British boxer; he was the first man of Nigerian descent to become a world boxing champion. Nojim Maiyegun is a retired Nigerian boxer, who won the bronze medal in the men’s Light  Middleweight (71 kg) category at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan,  Nigeria’s first Olympic medallist. David Izonritei is a former Nigerian boxer. Also known as David Izon, Izonritei won the Heavyweight silver medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics. Duncan Dalnajeneso Danagogo Dokiwari is a retired Nigerian boxer. At the 1996 Summer Olympics he won a Men’s Super Heavyweight bronze medal, together with Aleksei Lezin of Russia. Efe Ajagba won a gold medal at the 2015 African Games and bronze at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. As a professional, Ajagba holds the record for the fastest victory in boxing history after his opponent was disqualified for leaving the ring 1 second after the opening bell. there was also Ikemefula Charles “Ike” Ibeabuchi, whose story isn’t pleasant to narrate here. This list shows how well Nigeria could box even though it doesn’t capture all our exploits, especially Isacc Ikhuoria’s bronze medal winning feat at the Munich 1972 Olympic Games. Ikhuoria groomed other boxers, with the most prominent of them being Davidson Andeh. I ask, where is Davidson Andeh? tears on my face. Andeh’s story isn’t pleasant too. I digress. Indeed, the Lagos Boxing Hall of Fame anchored by Olawale Edun changed the face of boxing in the Centre of Excellence, without grave cost to the government.  The Lagos Boxing Hall Fame reawakened the fistic trade in state, especially the novel boxing tournament where boxers from Repton Boxing Club in the United Kingdom (UK) came to trade punches with those discovered from the local government areas in the state. Nigerian boxers were taken to London to box against their English counterparts in 2013. Imagine how those boxers felt entering the aircraft, possibly for the first time. Imagine the boxers’ gaze  as the bus drove through the streets of London. Imagine how they would felt putting calls across to their parents from London to Nigeria and what transpired in such telephone conversations. Imagine calling their friends to show that the Lagos Boxing Hall Fame is where they should be to learn and earn a living from boxing. Lagos Boxing Hall of fame began in 2009 and has held 107 editions monthly, where boxers were taught the rudiments of the fistic trade. Imagine how the boxers reacted to English meals as against Nigeria’s? Imagine how they coped with the weather and what ran through the minds during the period? Such is the message with sports and how it ought to be government’s biggest Public Relations tool. Such visits as Joshua’s help to raise the consciousness of Nigerians towards the sports, especially, those who used their big physique to bully people around the state instead of embracing boxing. It would be easier to convince them to embrace sports, having seen what others have achieved, especially their friends. 