By John Ofikhenua, Abuja  The Acting Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Engr. Busari Kamoruon Monday moved to strategise for emerging trends in hydrocarbon value chain that include discovery, exploration and other activites. He made the call for the news strategies owing to the paradigm shift in the oil and gas sector at the 4th National Council on Hydrocarbons in Abuja. The theme of the event was “Strategies for enhancing the global competitiveness of Nigeria’s hydrocarbons value chain.” He said that the experiences of the stakeholders that were also operators in the industry had put then in a unique position to evaluate the memoranda and recommend ways options that will open up new strategies for the unfolding trends in the oil and gas value chain. His words: “In this regard, our experiences as operators and stakeholders have placed us in a unique position that will unbundle new strategies for emerging trends in hydrocarbon value chain: discovery, exploration and other activities up to the point of sale of products to end-users. ” He noted that the forum would evaluate the various memoranda received on the theme in order to make appropriate recommendations to the National Council on existing policies. The evaluation, according to him, was in a bid to review and strengthen the recommendations and initiate robust policies and strategies for the sector. The Acting Permanent Secretary asked the forum to bear in mind that the policies that would be initiated at the meeting would impact directly or indirectly on the socio-economic stability of the entire nation. Kamoru urged the meeting to work throughout the course of the technical session to make quality contributions with the aim of proffering ways of maximizing the nation’s hydrocarbon deposits in a manner that would launch Nigeria to the next level. He maintained that the theme of the event was in line with the priority areas of the present administration. The Permanent Secretary said that the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Silva and all the heads of parastatals of the ministry have resolved to drive with energy and passion the consolidation of these issues into workable policies that would enhance Nigeria’s competitiveness in critical areas such as: (a) achieving the domestic LPG penetration in Nigeria (b) overcoming refining, supply and distribution challenges in the downstream sector: (c) optimizing and improving cost efficiency, (d) harnessing digital technology to boost and sustain hydrocarbon economy. Kamoru also pointed out that the technical session was to provide the platform for the stakeholders to review the extent of implementation of the decisions and resolutions reached at the last meeting held in Calabar, Cross River State. Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) Executive Secretary, Dr. Aliyu Gusau said that the theme of the event was very apt, especially in view of the importance of hydrocarbon to the nation’s economy. His representative, the General Manager, Strategic Planning and Documentation, Mr. Jide Adebulehin, was hopeful that at the end of the session the stakeholders would come up with valuable contribution to enhance the hydrocarbon value chain.