 Hundreds of worshipers from different parts of the country converged on the city of Ibadan, Oyo State to attend the annual Harvest Thanksgiving Service of the Mountain of Light of the World Church Inc. C&S, Ibadan to express thanks and gratitude for God’s protection and blessing in the outgoing year, 2019. The worshipers, who came with their family members in their flowing white garment,  to attend the week long activities lined up for the thanksgiving service, used the opportunity to seek for God’s favour, mercy and protection through prayers for the incoming year 2020. Prophetess Olayinka Ayodele, Founder of the church, in a chat with The Nation was elated and advised Nigerians on the need to draw close to God especially at this time when the country is facing socio-economic, and political challenges. While explaining the importance of the thanksgiving service to the church and the congregation, Prophetess Ayodele stated that God is happy with a grateful spirit, and anyone who appreciates God’s undeserved kindness, saying that only the thankful person can trust and show faith, not in his ability, but God’s power to provide for our daily needs. She charged the political class to imitate God’s mercy in dealing with the suffering masses, while noting that without the fear of God among the leaders, the nation will suffer. Also, Apostle Adebayo Ayodele, the husband, in his remarks explained that the purpose  of the programme was to give praise to the Almighty God for His divine protection throughout the incoming year. On why there is hardship in the land, Apostle Ayodele blamed the nation’s problems on too many sins in the land, and said the only solution is that the people must repent from their sins, and return to God. He lamented the high rate of crime , killings, kidnapping, looting , banditry, and armed robbery among others in all parts of the country, and blamed the lack of fear of God for all the atrocities. According to him, “The land is polluted with bloodshed, theft, immorality, banditry, and kidnapping etc because of lack of fear of God. The country is good, the only thing that is bad in Nigeria is the crop of leaders we have today. Many are saying Nigeria will, but I will tell nothing of such will happen, we are in the dire situation because the leaders failed to lead with the fear of God.” Among those expected to grace the thanksgiving service which began from December 2, are Pastor Adebayo Odubiyi a.k.a. Omo Bishop , from CAC Church, Abanla , Ibadan, and Prophet I.O. Ajilore from C.A.C. Atamatase, Ibadan. The week long programme is to end on December 8.