Many prospective tenants in Lagos have lost millions of naira to fraudulent estate agents. Sometimes, this happens with the tacit support of landlords. The Lagos State government is ready to end the ugly trend, OKWY IROEGBU- CHIKEZIE reports Taiwo Ogundele got married in July, last year and planned to move into a self-contain apartment in Mafoluku-Oshodi Lagos with his bride. They met the landlord who showed them a mini-flat and asked them to pay N250, 000. They were asked to prepare to move in the following week. When they went to take possession of their apartment which they had paid for after the seven days, they met 27 other prospective tenants creating a scene in the compound. They discovered that they have been duped just like the other desperate prospective tenants. The landlord disappeared and the police were invited but nothing tangible was done about the matter. Obinna Chukwujekwu, a trader who lives in Ajangbadi, was ‘settled’ by his ‘master’ after six years of apprenticeship in Alaba International Market. When he was ‘settled’, he paid the sum of N150, 000 to a developer who encouraged him to pay to secure a decent accommodation very close to where he got a shop. Enthusiastically he paid with some of his mates and others he didn’t know until they met at the police station where they discovered that they have been defrauded of their hard income. Mrs. Iyanda Bose, who lives in Ejigbo, recounted how she lost her co-operative savings with an agent. She recounted to The Nation how she registered with an agent who introduced her to a developer who allegedly was developing flats in Bucknor Ejigbo. She visited the place to monitor the rate of development and recounted how she met others coming to also check out the building. She said she didn’t suspect she would be defrauded as there were several flats in the building under construction until they heard the landlord has escaped to Cotonou. The developer also disappeared. She said she became homeless for almost six months until she found a make-shift shelter where she moved in with her children until she saved up for another apartment. She would want the state government to come up with a drastic measure that will curtail the activities of fraudsters who pose as genuine landlords or developers and who have destroyed several lives and families. He wanted prospective developers to register with the government, even as she said providing their details should be one of the criteria for registration so that an aggrieved member of the public can easily find redress should he or she is defrauded. She regretted that taking them to police station does not solve the problems as they are seen walking freely without minding the lives they have destroyed. Mrs. Iyanda further asked for a special court to try them so that it would serve as a deterrent to others. Stories such as these are countless in cosmopolitan Lagos where almost every other person is an estate agent. Hundreds of them seem not to have any inkling of what their deleterious activities have done to a lot of families. Special Adviser (SA) to Governor Sanwo-Olu on Housing, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, said the government is set to sanitise the agency business by making those involved fall in line with the laws of the land. She said though the government is desirous of the prosperity of residents, it frowns at businesses that profiteer from other people’s sweat. She spoke at a recent stakeholders’ engagement on real estate/agency business with the theme “Lagos Real Estate: Achieving 21st Century Compliance.” She stated that the 21st Century Smart City of Lagos requires that virtually all Real Estate stakeholders and transactions be known and captured electronically with access to data by the citizens in real-time, as Real Estate is important to Lagos as oil is to Nigeria. She said: “There is the need to provide, develop and continuously capture and update a Unified Central Database of Real Estate activities within the state while making it accessible for the objectives of planning and policy decisions. “Our vision is to provide an enabling environment and transparent Real Estate sector conforming to international best practices while safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders. Our mission, however, is the creation of an innovative and sustainable environment to promote Lagos as a Real Estate Investment destination in Africa and the World.” She explained why the government came up with an agency known as Lagos State Real Estate Transaction Department (LASTRED). The SA said it was as a result of deep frustrations suffered by members of the public and losses encountered. She recounted how her office has battled with so many cases of transaction failure. She further explained that in the last five or six months, they have dealt with large-scale fraud in places such as Alapere in Ketu were a developer and a landlord conspired to dupe 262 members of the public on 15 units of self-contain apartments. Reliving the experiences of some members of the public, she said usually one man will put up “To let” signpost and ask people to call or get in touch if they require accommodation. She said this was exactly what happened in Alapere Ketu where such advert attracted over 262 people who inadvertently paid for 15 flats while the developer duped them of over N68 million. She said: “In Gbagada, there was a situation where they had five flats with 17 people paying for them without knowing until the bubble burst. “I received a report this morning that a certain gentleman in Agege collected monies from over 300 prospective tenants and smiled to the bank with millions of naira belonging to innocent people. “We have cases such as these. There is also a case of a man in Ajebo Estate. Luckily for us, he was prosecuted and found guilty and subsequently sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. His property has also been forfeited to the state and we are going to sell the property and refund the money back to the victims.” On the scope of their regulation, she said it will focus on “Stakeholders, Estate Agents, Landlords and Tenants, Redress Schemes” authorised by Lagos State Tenancy Laws and will also be open to other property professionals to ensure their commitment to excellent consumer service and improving best practice within the Real Estate Sector. She maintained that “the development and growth of the Real Estate industry depend on how to foster enduring client relationships and building trust. The objective of the agency is the protection of citizens from the initiation of the transaction to the conclusion of renting, buying, leasing or selling a property,” she added. The SA further explained that it was the responsibility of government to partner with relevant professional bodies in the housing sector to eliminate impostors, fraudsters, charlatans and sharp practices associated with members who claim to be accredited building or housing sector practitioners, but whose sole objective is to defraud unsuspecting members of the public who engage their services in renting, leasing, buying, selling and property development. Mrs Benson-Awoyinka said the ultimate aim of the government is to eliminate the bad eggs in the industry and punish offenders under relevant provisions of the State Law, thereby restoring the integrity of the profession within the state and Nigeria as a whole. She pledged the administration’s preparedness to fulfil its social contract to the people in the protection of lives and properties. Governor Babajide Sanwo- Olu said emerging issues in the sector over time necessitated the gathering which is intended to device creative ways of finding lasting solutions to incidences of fraud and unprofessionalism in the Real Estate business.  He said the intention of government is in sync with LASTRED motives which are to purge the sector of bad eggs that hide under agency business to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. Sanwo-Olu also said the planned programmes will protect professionals who are also being affected by the unscrupulous activities of the few bad eggs impersonating genuine business owners in the real estate sector. The governor said the theme “Lagos Real Estate: Achieving 21st Century Compliance” is apt considering the role played by Real Estate business in the financial sector, particularly in a cosmopolitan and commercial state such as Lagos. On the need to sanitise the sector and protect the genuine ones from the quacks, he said: “Apart from facilitating business relationships between people selling or buying, leasing or renting of landed property across the state, you also in no small measure contribute to the state Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through your activities. The need to bring prospective buyers and sellers of landed property together and managing their expectations and making both parties come into agreement, happy and satisfied during business transactions have greatly impacted the economic growth and development of Lagos State.” He described the role of the agents as very crucial, stressing that it is the realisation of that fact that made the government establish the Lagos State Real Estate Transaction Department (LASTRED) with an Executive Order NO EO/BRF/009 of 2012. Sanwo-Olu pointed out that the idea is to establish, regulate, monitor and develop the institutional framework while enhancing the integrity of the property market by sanitising the system. He advised them to form a formidable force and join hands with the government to work towards salvaging the present situation within the profession. He assured that his administration will declare a total war against unfair treatment that had been meted to residents. He said: “Let me assure you all that the present administration is very passionate about the housing sector and LASTRED and we are determined to strengthen the operations of this department to achieve the 21st Century vision of the government in the Real Estate business.” He encouraged the estate agents to explore the deployment of new technology to create a platform for establishing business relationships with potential clients and also maintain the existing ones. “Today, we are in an era when the internet has made the whole world a global village. You should, therefore, advertise your services and products to boost your real estate business and re-position it through modern social media platforms to strengthen the industry and ensure that people are better informed about your business,” he said.