By Raymond Mordi A GROUP, Oyo Kajola Group (OKG), has praised Governor Seyi Makinde for repositioning the state for excellence. The group advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) to desist from attacking the governor. OKG, in a statement by its Media Coordinator, Mr. Adebayo Ayandele, said recent outbursts by the APC and ALGON on the management of local government matters by Makinde underscored the attitude of bad losers. According to OKG, the criticisms against Makinde by the APC and ALGON are not only baseless but a clear demonstration of undemocratic tendencies by political actors who have unfortunately benefitted from the nation’s democracy. “We can only urge them to stop being bad losers and stop the incessant display of undemocratic conducts, including their call for unconstitutional intervention in Oyo State,” the OKG said. The group said the APC’s statement calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to adopt intervene was not only a shameful, but a portrayal of ALGON as namby-pamby democrats. The group described Oyo APC’s call to President Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly to prevail on Makinde on local government administration. According to the group, the claim made by the APC that Makinde’s plans to appoint caretaker committees was an affront and a decision to position his lackeys in office was not only strange, but totally baseless, especially coming from a party that administered local governments with caretaker committees for seven of its eight years. The group added that the claim that Makinde tried to ‘bribe’ known APC members appointed into the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) by the immediate past government was a wicked lie, noting that Makinde’s offer to pay the OYSIEC members off the appointment was lawful and well-intended. The Oyo Kajola Group (OKG) advised Makinde to go appoint caretaker chairmen for the local councils, as according to it, the move will enable the grassroots in Oyo State to feel the impact of government more than before. It noted that if the governor decides to do so, he would not be committing any infraction on the laws of the land, pending the election into the councils. The group also warned the Oyo State APC and its appendage, to perish the thought of its evil intention of planning to snatch the people’s mandate freely given to Governor Makinde through the Court, noting that the APC’s false hope would end up being deflated.  The group said: “On Monday, the Oyo State chapter of the APC, for the umpteenth time and in its characteristic frustrated manner, treated Nigerians to another round of its garrulous but baseless attacks on the Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde. Silence would have been the best answer for the ninnies that Oyo APC leaders and members have become ever since they lost the March 9, 2019 governorship election. “However, the namby-pamby democrats and bogus progressives known as Oyo APC had gone too far this time, as they called on President Buhari and the National Assembly to “prevail” on Makinde on how to administer a federating unit, Oyo State. This call, to say the least, is disgraceful, uncanny and not well-thought-out and we can only ask whether the writer and sponsors of the APC statement actually went through school or learnt anything about the federal system of Government. “They cited some cases to buttress their disgraceful claim but they were only clever by half, as they hid a substantial part of the matters from the public with an intent to deceive and mislead the public. The truth is that Governor Makinde would not be disobeying any order by appointing an interim management for the local governments. By doing so, he would only be contributing to making the impact of governance felt more at the grassroots.” 