By Charles Onunaiju  Anyone who watched the clip of a community report about Igbeti town in Oyo State aired by TVC Television about two weeks ago, would bay for the blood of those who have been in charge of the state for at least, the past 40 years. An abandoned ceramic industry even as the town is endowed with the finest marble stone that nature could bestow, a decrepit community hospital built in 1968 but now, a total wreckage that cannot stand an abattoir. The inscriptions on the hospital wards indicating its various special departments showed the bold visions of those who originally conceived and built the hospitals but reduced to ruins by subsequent predatory leadership that has followed. But the spectacle of the community secondary school totally in ruins with rickety roof, falling ceilings, broken walls and surroundings littered with human waste is enough to challenge the sanity of those who have been in charge of government in the state. But the worst sight of the painful spectacle came when students have to take turns to write on each other’s back, as classrooms are not only bare and empty but with broken floors. And it is the same Oyo State the new governor complained almost helplessly how the outgone administration of Mr. Abiola Ajimobi allegedly cleared about N5.2 billion weeks before its departure and left only N19, 000. For the avoidance of doubt, neither Igbeti town nor Oyo State is an isolated case in the gruesome and expansive abuse of public space, by those who offer themselves to oversee and manage them. Recently in Imo State, top managers of a N1.5 billion hospital, associates of the former governor of the state, Mr. Rochas Okorocha could not offer any explanation to the source of funding and following a court order that the mystery hospital could certainly be, from  proceeds of corruption, the Economic and financial Crime Commission (EFCC) has taken it over. But the authors of the infamy who left basic and primary health care centres across the state to rot, while they milk the state dry to build their world-class hospital that over 90% of the residents cannot afford, can sleep in the comfort of their homes and any time, they are called out to account, a community of legal hustlers, would jump into the fray, screaming rule of law. By the way, the abuse of the practice of law has become part of the absurdities of our contemporary landscape of our life. The excesses of profiteering in legal practice are gradually overwhelming the purpose of the law. The purpose of law is much beyond the guarantee of the individual freedom, which reaches even more importantly to the regulation of the social space and guaranteeing the security of its ambiance which is the pre-condition for an individual meaningful existence and the liberties that is inherent therein. No individual freedom is possible if the social space is left to dissolve into anomie. Nothing in the preservation of the social order would warrant the abuse or violation of individual right, without whose aggregation, the social space would have been void. However, the rule of law or the supremacy of the law is predicated on the social purpose of law and therefore any meaningful interpretation of the rule of law must be underwritten by the social purpose of law. Outside this inclusive and holistic framework, the rule of law plays into the hands of elite privilege, which currently is the defining praxis of Nigeria’s legal practice and even the administration of justice, defined mostly in the abstract without its social content. Even democracy is getting hollowed out, not so much by its abusers that by its defenders. Without contextualizing democratic practice to solve practical problems, deliver tangible results and clearly set parameters for measuring success, democracy is rendered both nebulous and ambiguous and offering its worst enemies the pretense to dress in its bright colours, while at the same time ensuring the burial of its substances. At every election heist that has characterized the electoral process since 1999, pro-democracy activists and civil society election monitors would scream electoral reforms as the answer. But no electoral reform would be meaningful, without understanding the existing nature of state power, the only reason to appreciate the persistence of election heist that runs through the gamut of all electoral malfeasance including vote-buying, compromise of personnel of election umpires and violence. The related nature of the contemporary state power, a far more toxic variant than its immediate post-colonial form, accounts for the impunity and extreme arrogance of the current wielders of state powers at all levels and in all branches. Recently the 360+109 men and women in the House of Representatives and Senate, voted to renovate the National Assembly complex with a whopping sum of N37 billion. Despite torrent of criticisms, they will not listen. Even as students and pupils in public schools across the country squat on bare floor, taking turns to use each other backs as writing tables, the “honourables” and their “distinguished” colleagues cannot compromise on their deserved opulence. As one Malaysian sociologist observed in his book, “the fools in developing societies,” that modern “western political science has focused attention on the problem of legitimacy, the problem of systems of government, the problem of participation and a host of other problems, but it has not focused attention on the problem of manpower with relevance to the fool. No matter what the system is, be it a democracy, a dictatorship, communist or liberal democratic, the factor of the fool is significant. Any system dominated by fools will not work.” In offering description of fools and their collective impact in understanding travails of developing societies, Professor Alatas outlined their distinct characteristics. According to him:  ”A fool does not think contextually both in terms of time and space, and in the dynamic interrelationship of factors;   A fool reacts only to the immediate and cannot see beyond; A fool has a mind that thinks in terms of limited causes and not of successive causes and effects; A fool is a creature of habit and is not critical of the foundation of his thinking; A fool lacks mental energy and always follows the line of least resistance; and,  ”A fool cannot speak at a high level of abstraction without contradicting reality.” The census of fools in governance is hard to ascertain as no country in the world has yet attempted a census on fools, and therefore, there is no statistics on the subject of fools. It is even impossible to select a sample survey. Since it is no crime to be a fool, we cannot, as with criminals conduct a direct study of convicted fools. A fool is not an occupational category. It is also even more degrading to be a fool hence questionnaires cannot be distributed for those selected to answer would obviously resent it. Hence, the only way to know the impact of fools is the effect of the preponderant of fools in public life  which includes the missed opportunities, the continual decline in the quality of lives of the majority of the population even with resources to make life better, ballooning cost of governance where there is lesser cost to deliver efficient services. Fools generally regal in public office and because they are unable to understand that it is a public trust, are quick to turn it to an instrument of self-aggrandizement and also foolishly believe to have been appointed by some extra-terrestrial powers and therefore accountable to the people. Looking at what the fools revolution have done to many developing societies and the absurdities in our public life that have even surpassed the chicanery of fools in other places, Nigerians must exercise their imaginations beyond the constraints of the existing fool’s paradise. 