To make December a memorable experience for consumers, carbonated soft drink giant Pepsi has unveiled its yearly brand campaign, tagged: We Got Taste. As part of activities to place consumers in the forefront of its brand awareness effort, Pepsi has lined up musical concerts for December. These include Grammy-nominated Burna Boy’s ‘Burna Boy in Concert’, MeganTheStallion, Teni ‘The Billionaire Experience’, Tiwa Savage with ‘Savage Experience’ and Pepsi ‘Star Boy’s Wizkid Live Concert. Speaking at the unveiling in Lagos, Seven Up Bottling Company’s Marketing Manager Segun Ogunleye said the campaign was part of the company’s strategy to create a memorable experience for consumers every December.
“There is a long line of events that will exhibit the true character of the taste that Pepsi stands for, through the intrinsic taste of the pop soda, the dynamic brand ambassadors, and the array of concerts planned out. All these have been put together to give Nigerians the ultimate taste experience this December. “Pepsi over the years has owned December with Music +Football events which have become a driving force. As a brand we are in the forefront of driving contemporary pop culture, and we have done this again and again and that’s the spirit of what our brand is about. The new campaign, We Got Taste, which has been premiered on digital platform received 80 per cent applaud from consumers on various social media platform,” he said. Pepsi sponsored the just-concluded show Livespot X Festival, which featured American rapper Cardi B. Othere events the brand is involved with this December are DJ Cuppy’s ‘Cactus at the Roof Party,’ DJ Xclusive’s ‘All White Party’ and DJ Spinall’s ‘Party of your Dreams’ and Pepsi Rhythm Unplugged. Over the years, Pepsi has been making December a memorable experience for customers through its campaigns and promotions. In 2016, it unveiled the Turn Down 2 Turn Up, while in 2017 and 2018 it unveiled the No Shaking, Carry Go Disembaa and No Chill Disembaa Campaigns.