By Emma Elekwa, Onitsha  The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra state said it would set up camps at the Niger bridgehead and other flashpoints in Onitsha to tackle traffic challenges during Christmas and new year celebrations. The State Sector Commander, Andrew Kumapayi disclosed this yesterday in Onitsha during the lunch of operation no traffic 93.7 Wazobia FM Onitsha, tagged “I WONT” at the Onitsha bridgehead. He said no fewer than 600 officials would be deployed to the commercial city during the period with about 50 to be stationed at other camps located at flashpoints in the town with heavy traffic congestions. “The camps are to be manned twenty-four hours by our men who we’re withdrawing from the neighbouring commands so we don’t overburden those in Onitsha,” he said. Kumapayi commended the media organization for partnering with the corps through the volunteering service towards a traffic-free season. He called for commitment and discipline on the part of the staff, assuring them of maximum support and corporation. He added, “We in the FRSC are set to ensure safety on the highway. We’re synergising with other relevant stakeholders to ensure there’s ease of movement before, during and after the festive season. “You’ll be booed and insulted by the motoring public, but keep your calm. You’ll be working hand in hand with my men and I expect the best from you.” Also speaking, Managing Director, Anambra State Traffic Management Agency (ATMA), Nwachika Obiefuna urged the staff of the media outfit to see the work as a sacrifice, urging them to carry it out with courtesy and decorum. “You must acknowledge that this job is a state responsibility. Since the bridgehead is a gateway to the state, we expect you to be courteous so as not to represent the state in a bad light,” he added. Earlier, Head of station, Wazobia FM, Onitsha, Mr Ugo Enwerji explained that the exercise was part of the organisation’s corporate social responsibility. He said the media outfit was also partnering with the FRSC in Delta to ensure the traffic jam that characterised the bridgehead was greatly minimized during the festive season. “We carried out a similar campaign in 2018 and continued on our radio station because we expect massive vehicles on the road following the closure of the Enugu Airport,” he said. Enwerji revealed that the campaign would be temporarily suspended on December 25 and would continue on December 29 till January 1, 2020 between the hours of 11a.m and 4p.m.