By Adebisi Onanuga  Justice Lateef Lawal-Akapo of an Ikorodu High Court has adjourned  hearing of all pending applications in a suit filed over the disputed large portion of land in Elewu Ala Mosenne village, Ikorodu to February 5, 2020. Justice Lawal-Akapo fixed the new date after taking submissions from counsels to parties in the suit. The Olomo Mosenne descendants family are challenging the Ewuade descendants family of Ikorodu, Adefowolu descendants family of Imota, Adeigbe descendants family of Ikorodu, Abiodun Alapinni over the disputed large portion of land in Elewu Ala Mosenne village, Ikorodu. In the suit filed through their counsel, Tunji Busari, the claimants  who are descendants of Olomo Mosenne of Mosenne Village, Ikorodu are seeking an order of perpectual injunction restraining  the defendants, whether by their servants, agents, assigns, privies and workmen from going into, selling, leasing, transferring, alienating in any way whatsoever, and or carrying out any construction of development works on the vast track of land, the subject matter of the suit. They are also a declaration that the claimants are the persons entitled to a customary right of occupancy over the entire large parcel of land being , lying and situate at Mosenne Eleu-Ala Village, Isiu, Ikorodu Local Government. The claimant prayed the court for possession of the entire vast track of land being, lying and situate at Mosenne Eleu-Ala Village, Isiu, Ikorodu and an order setting aside any sales agreements, purchase receipts and or any land instruments issued by all or any of the defendants and or any authority whatsoever in respect of the land. The 1st  to 4th claimants  are Kayode Olomo Mosenne, Waheed Olomo Mosenne, Bode Orilonise Olomo Mosenne and Lasisi Olomo Mosenne, (for themselves and on behalf of Olomo Mosenne Descendants Family of Mosenne Village, Ikorodu). The 1st to 5th defendants respectively are Bode Ewuade, Osho Ewuade, Alebiosu Ewuade, Ekiyoyo Ewuade and Akeem Alakan, ( for themselves and on behalf of Olomo Mosenne Descendants Family of Mosenne Village, Ikorodu),  while the sixth to tenth defendants respectively are Debo Adefowolo, Mrs Sakirat Adefowolo, Yayah Adefowlo, Musiliu and Mufutau Adefowolo, (for themselves and on behalf of Adefowolo Descendants Family of Imota, Ikorodu). Others are Mrs Kuburat Adeigbe and Lekan Adeigbe, (for themselves and on behalf of Adeigbe Descendants Family of  Ikorodu) as 11th and 12th defendants , Abiodun Alapinni as 13th defendant and  14th defendants as unknown person. The claimants averred that the entire land now known as Elewu Ala Mosenne village, was settled upon by their great ancestor, Ajalorun Odua, as a virgin land from time immemorial. According to the claimants, Ajalorun migrated from Ile-Ife in search of greener pasture and settled on the Elewu Ala Mosenne village and started farming various crops extensively w ith his family and wives. They averred that all the descendants of Ajalorun, who was a son of Odua, Yoruba originator from Ile Ife farmed extensively on the disputed land without any disturbance whatsoever. The claimants stated that the entire land in Elewu Ala Mosenne village had been partitioned among three major stocks of Salu Apesin, no split into Adefoolo and Adeigbe and Aina Odukomade Mosenne now generating into  Olomo Mosenne Descendants family under Yoruba native and customs from time immemorial between the two direct male children of Ajalorun Odua, and that each stock knows its boundary. They averred that chieftaincy title called Mosenne was bestowed  on Aina Odukomade around 1886 When the Queen of England visited Nigeria and honoured the claimants ancestors, Aina Odukomade with what is being titled Mosene to the exclusion of Salu Apesin descendant. They contended that the 1st to 5th defendants  of Ewuade descendants are total strangers to the entire Eleu-Ala Mosenne village and the land in dispute.  They maintained that their immediate ancestors leased the land in dispute to on Ayo Atere as the lease otherwise called Eleibiko around 1971. They averred that various receipts were issued by the said Eleibiko  from 1975 to 2001 before his death and that the defendants equally have layout plan showing the portion of the claimants parcel of land. They said the defendants have trespassed upon their own portion of land and began to sell same indiscriminately without their consent. Earlier during resumed proceedings,  Alabi had  informed the court of their pending application dated October 29, 2019 and prayed the court to grant it’s requests as stated in the application. He told the court that parties have been duly served. While not opposing the application, counsel to judgment debtors ,  Olu Otayemi, confirmed service. He  told the court that the judgment the judgment creditor was attempting to enforce was obtained in 2001 and that order for its enforcement gotten in 2016. He however informed the court that most of those listed as judgment creditors are deceased. The court also struck out an application filed by October 29 by counsel to judgment creditors, S.O. Alabi, seeking enforcement of judgment on occupants of Mosenne village land. Justice Lawal-Akapo struck out the application for being incompetent and for improper naming of respondents. The trial judge noted that the manner the respondents were named created confusion in the matter. The court noted that all the processes filed by the judgment creditors have been taken over be developments He ordered him to file new processes and list respondents in the application properly.  