Abuja,  midweek, witnessed a protest over the killing of Mrs Salome Acheju Abuh, a 60-year-old mother of three males and a female. She was killed in her home in Ochadamu, Ofu Local Government Area of Kogi State. Before her death, she was a resident of Abuja. At her polling unit on the recent governorship election, a suspected political thug was said to have marched to where she was seated, dealt her a heavy slap and kicked the chair from under her. Her husband rushed her to the hospital. When she recovered, he asked that they returned to their base (Abuja). She opted out. As the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP’s) Woman Leader  in the area, she was said to have been optimistic that her party would upstage Governor Yahaya Bello. She would not like to miss the moment. She, however, was killed in a dastardly manner two days after the governorship election. But barely 24 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari directed security agencies to fish out her killers, the police announced the arrest of six persons in connection with the crime. The last wednesday’s protesters, who could not hide their anger, bore placards calling for justice for the late retired civil servants. A first cousin to the deceased, Mrs. Ruth Acheme, said the sponsors of her killers were spreading rumours to cover up. Mrs. Acheme, who spoke with The Nation in Lokoja, the state capital,  said her cousin’s remains were burnt to near ashes, and that they were only able to retrieve a part of her burnt skull, which they packed and buried last week Friday. She said: “They claim that some of the louts were from Ibaji. The husband (also a retiree from the Presidency) pressured her that they should go to Abuja together on Sunday, but she persisted, saying PDP would win the election and she wanted to be on the ground. Even her younger sister called from Ajaka and said: ‘What are you doing there?’ But, she said: ‘If you people are afraid,’ she was not afraid of anything, and it was that day that they killed her and burnt her body.  “They came inside and packed her belongings and loaded them into their Sienna bus and another smaller car. “One of her younger brothers came from Ogwalawo, but he was advised to go to the police station. It was after that we went with the police. “The police passed by us to other houses that were burnt; five in all, belonging to PDP members. “The member of the House of Representatives came to inspect the scene of the crime, he met us under the cashew tree where we stood, and together, we went to the house. “There was little of the head and chest, they packed the whole thing in a cloth.”