At a forum convened in Lagos to unveil its objectives, the Global Citizen Nigeria reaffirmed its commitment to lifting millions out of poverty by revamping 774 primary healthcare centres across the country, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  Like an army on a rescue mission, members of Nigeria’s organised private sector have thrown their weight behind the Global Citizen initiative. The mission: to lift millions of Nigerians out of poverty, targeting billions to revamp at least 774 primary healthcare centres across the country. The organised private sector reaffirmed its commitment towards fighting extreme poverty in the country when the Global Citizen convened a policy forum in Lagos to present the policy objectives for Global Goal Live: The Possible Dream campaign to stakeholders from Nigeria’s public and private sectors, civil society and the media. It is a common belief among members that there is an urgent need to deepen access to quality healthcare services in the country, especially through improving primary healthcare infrastructure across the country. If the commitment to wage a united war against poverty is matched with action, which requires billions of dollars to actualise, it means better times await the masses, as an improved primary healthcare system is generally seen as a panacea towards solving some of the crises afflicting the country’s moribund health sector. Revamping the primary healthcare system is also seen as a weapon to help improve the country’s terrible health indices, as more people will be able to access quality healthcare in primary health centres closet to them. The Global Goal Live: The Possible Dream was launched by the Global Citizen, in partnership with Teneo, during the United Nations General Assembly in New York on September 26, 2019. The most recent Global Citizen festival in South Africa secured financial commitments of $7.2 billion. The campaign in Nigeria aims to exceed this by mobilising billions in commitments for Nigeria. Specifically, $2 billion of the money allocated to Nigeria will be used to impact the lives of millions of impoverished women and girls. The campaign will feature a series of events throughout 2020, culminating with the global events on September 26, 2020. Speaking at the launch of Nigeria 2020 in Lagos, Global Citizen Nigeria Chairman, Tunde Folawiyo, said Achieving Nigeria’s pledge to lift 100 million people out of poverty in the next decade will only be possible if the public sector, private sector and civil society collaborate closely. A co-ordinated, multi-stakeholder approach is essential, he said. In his words, “Achieving Nigeria’s pledge to lift 100 million people out of poverty in the next decade will only be possible if the public sector, private sector and civil society collaborate closely. A co-ordinated, multi-stakeholder approach is essential.” The Global Citizen Nigeria Vice Chairman, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, also said the government alone cannot deliver the resources that are needed to win the fight against extreme poverty. “We must create multiple entry points to allow local and global influencers come together and make a difference. Innovative financing models, creative partnerships and new technology are what this movement needs to end poverty. We must deliver,” he said. The Global Citizen Co-Founder, Mick Sheldrick, said the world needs $350b annually if it wants to end extreme poverty and achieve the Global Goals in the 59 poorest countries by 2030. “And as we’ve seen, each year we do not meet this cost, more people will fall into poverty and the cost of inaction will go up. That’s why 2020 must be a year of urgency where we remind the world’s governments and businesses of the budget gap facing the goals, they all signed up for. We look forward to working with the Nigerian private sector to help drive progress toward the Goals,” Sheldrick said. On September 26, 2020, the largest live broadcast cause event in history will come to Lagos, Nigeria. The historic 10-hour global media event will showcase simultaneous festivals in Lagos and New York’s Central Park — as well as satellite events in Seoul, Korea, and to be announced cities in Latin America and Europe  — and will see the worlds of pop, policy , and business unite to create unprecedented change and lasting impact. To be on target to achieve the United Nations Global Goals by 2030, 120 million people should have been lifted out of extreme poverty between 2016 and now. The 2019 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Goalkeepers report estimates that 83 million people have escaped poverty during that period, demonstrating progress, but falling short of the required rate. For every year we remain behind the target, the work needed to achieve the Global Goals increases. Despite the positive global trend, poverty rates in Africa have increased. Today, two-thirds of those living in extreme poverty globally live in Africa, and at current rates, by 2030 the continent will account for 90 per cent of all individuals living in extreme poverty. Nigeria tops the list of the African countries where rates of poverty are increasing, with 6 people falling into extreme poverty every minute. Current estimates put the number of people living in extreme poverty in Nigeria at 89 million – the highest anywhere in the world. More than 40 per cent of the population also face stark realities in terms of inability to afford treatment in a country where the health system revolves largely on out-of-pocket payment system. However, since the Federal Government of Nigeria has pledged to lift 100 million people out of extreme poverty over the next 10 years, an average of 10 million per annum, which requires that all hands need to be on the deck to achieve success. Besides Folawiyo, Aig-Imoukhuede and Sheldrick, the policy forum in Lagos was also attended by Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, SSA to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); Dr. Paulin Basinga, Country Director, Gates Foundation; Mr. Oscar Onyema, CEO, Nigerian Stock Exchange; Mrs. Solape Hammond, Acting Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State Government; Yebeltal Getachew, Manging Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria and Olakunle Oloruntimehin, General Manager, Cisco Nigeria. Since the first Global Citizen Festival in New York in 2012, Global Citizen has grown into one of the largest and most visible platforms for people around the world calling on world leaders to honour their responsibilities in achieving the United Nations Global Goals and ending extreme poverty by 2030. The Global Citizens has mobilised $48.5 billion in commitments and policy announcements from leaders, which has impacted the lives of 880 million people living in extreme poverty. The Global Citizen Nigeria, which is located in Lagos, is working with its counterparts around the world in conducting a year-long campaign to get the world back on track to achieve the United Nations Global Goals by 2030. Working alongside, and in support of the United Nations, this campaign will call on governments, philanthropists, and the private sector to step forward, take responsibility for the goals, and provide the $350 billion needed annually for people and the planet to achieve the Global Goals in the 59 poorest countries.