By Adebisi Onanuga  The Ogun State Ministry of Justice has pledged to boost efficiency by address the shortage of lawyers and staff. It said recruitment of more staff would also boost human capacity and stem justice delay. The state’s Solicitor-General and Permanent Secretary Mrs. Yetunde Oresanya stated this at the ministry’s 2020 Budget Defense at the House of Assembly Complex in  Abeokuta, the state capital. Oresanya, who was represented by the Director, Public Prosecutors (DPP) Mr. Adeyemi Adewole, explained  that the construction of Information Communication Technology, (ICT), facilities in the Ministry has become imperative, to properly project the justice sector and the state government. Analysing the Ministry’s budget proposal, Adewole said N1.46billion was proposed for the 2020 fiscal year. The current expenditure would gulp N1.18billion representing 80.9 percent and the capital expenditure estimated at N279million, representing 19.1 percent, putting N350million in the targeted Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the Ministry. He added that both personnel and overhead costs of the ministry would gulp N600million and N582million respectively, saying that the construction of an out station at Ilaro, Sagamu would be implemented and the total overhauling of its Ijebu-Ode out station.  He said the reviewing of the state’s laws to meet up proper standards would also be implemented in the budget proposal, noting that they were reviewed last in 2006 under the administration of Otunba Gbenga Daniel. Adewole said the ministry would procure five additional vehicles, two cars and three buses to timely convey lawyers and other staff to their various work places, adding that training and retraining of staff would also not left out. An e-library, he added, would be put in place for law officers and other staff in the state, “so as to make references to their defence and when necessary to strengthen the staff capacity. The House of Assembly Chairman, Finance and Appropriation,  Olakunle Sobunkanla and Chairman House Committee on Justice, Ethics and Public Petition, Solomon Osho advised the ministry to work hard, in order to achieve the set goals, while urging it to put more effort on quick dispensation of justice, training and retraining of its workforces. 