Our Reporter  Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company Plc (IBEDC) has assured its customers of efficient electricity supply throughout the holidays as all its offices would be open for business. Its Chief Operating Officer, Mr John Ayodele, gave the assurance in his Christmas message to customers. He said alternate channels of payment such as the online and USSD would remain operational as usual. Ayodele, however, appealed to customers and Nigerians in general to observe safety rules during the holidays to ensure accident-free celebrations. He advised parents to ensure proper supervision of children to prevent domestic and electrical accidents. He said: “No cooking or partying under high-tension wires. Switch off all electrical appliances not in use. No engaging of quacks to repair electrical faults. Motorists should avoid drinking alcohol to prevent collusion with electrical poles and accidents.” He said IBEDC in 2019 introduced several policies and initiatives for improved service delivery and customers’ satisfaction. He said these included the implementation of the Meter Asset Provider Scheme (MAP) to bridge the metering gap across its franchise.  “The Introduction of the Advance Metering Infrastructure (AMI) on distribution transformers is to allow for two-way communication between the meter and the utility provider, ensure efficient billing and outage management. “The introduction of the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) initiative routed through the Customer care line, gives customers better and faster access to getting their complaints resolved. “We focused and made huge financial investment on safety. This led to award of ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) 45001 Certification on Zero fatality and injury to customers and staff,” he said. He said the company also rehabilitated and upgraded over 10 major installations and substations across the franchise, and pledged that the company would consolidate on the polices and more. He urged Nigerians to imbibe the virtues and morals of the season by showing love and tolerance, adding that it was time to reflect on the imagery of compassion, hope, humility and reconciliation that Jesus Christ embodied. 