 THE National Assembly has considered and passed the Finance Bill 2019 submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari on October 14. The objectives of the Bill, as outlined by the President, are to strategically “promote fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation; reform domestic tax laws to align with global best practices; introduce tax incentives for investments in infrastructure and capital markets; support small businesses in line with the ongoing Ease of Doing Business Reforms; and raise revenues for the government by various fiscal measures, including a proposed increase in the rate of Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent.” Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna-Ahmed had revealed that “going forward, the annual budget will always be accompanied by finance bills to enable the realisation of revenue projections. “Future finance bills will, therefore, provide additional opportunities to incrementally improve the fiscal policy and regulatory/legal environment to further strengthen our domestic capital market and ultimately ensure sustained and inclusive growth and development,” she said. The Bill is to, among other things, amend the following tax provisions and make them more responsive to the tax reform policies of the Federal Government and enhance its implementation and effectiveness. “Companies Income Tax Act, Cap. C2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 (as amended to date): The Bill seeks to amend the provision of the Companies Income Tax Act to, among other things, curb Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) as proposed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and thereby broaden the triggers for domestic taxation of income earned by non-resident companies in Nigeria through dependent agents and via online market platforms. “The Bill also seeks to address the taxation of industries, such as insurance, start-ups and the capital markets, evaluated by the Federal Government as critical to the growth and development of the Nigerian economy to stimulate activities in those sectors and foster overall economic growth. Specifically, the Bill seeks to promote fiscal equality by ensuring companies are not taxed twice on the same income stream; to implement proposals to promote investments in Securities Lending Transaction and stimulate activity in the capital market. “With regard to Value Added Tax Act, Cap V, LFN 2007 (as amended), the Bill proposes to improve the efficiency of the Nigerian VAT system taking into considerations recommendations from various stakeholder groups. In addition to simplifying the VAT landscape, the Bill also seeks to expand VAT coverage by addressing some critical issues, such as taxation of the digital economy, VAT registration thresholds and intangibles. “In the case of the Customs and Excise Tariff and others, (Consolidation), Cap C49, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, the Bill seeks to create a level playing field by subjecting certain imported goods to excise duties in similar manner as their locally manufactured counterparts. “The Bill also seeks to provide clarity and efficiency in the administration of individual income taxes in Nigeria as contained in the Personal Income Tax Cap P8, LFN 2007 (as amended). For Capital Gains Tax Act Cap C1, LFN 2007, the Bill also covers the taxation of business combination and seeks to prevent abuse of provision of the Act on group restructuring. Under the Stamp Duties Act Cap S8, LFN 2007, the Bill also seeks to increase revenue generation from duties on electronic stamps. “Petroleum Profit Tax Bill seeks to improve revenue by removing the tax exemption granted for dividends or income received from companies charged under Petroleum Profits Tax Act. The Bill contains some changes to the Companies Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax (VAT) Act, Petroleum Profits Tax Act (PPTA), Personal Income Tax Act, Capital Gains Tax Act (CGTA) and Customs and Excise Tariff and others (Consolidation) Act and Stamp Duties Act.” Mrs Shamsuna-Ahmed had pleaded with the National Assembly that “the Bill will support the implementation of the 2020 Appropriation Act. This is expected to encourage growth and investment by different sectors of the economy.” The idea behind the Bill is to come up with modifications to the fiscal rules around taxation aimed at creating an enabling business environment and alleviating the tax burden for small and medium enterprises. Looking at Companies Income Tax (CIT) and specifically, Tax on dividend distribution (excess dividend tax) as espoused by the new Bill, Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) in its analysis of the components of the Bill stated that “currently, companies are charged to tax at 30 per cent on their dividend distributions where such dividends exceed the taxable profits for the year notwithstanding that profits being distributed may have been taxed in prior years, exempt from tax, or taxed under a different tax law.” This PWC said: “Particularly affects holding companies on dividends received from their subsidiaries thereby making Nigeria unattractive as a headquarters or group holding company location. The Finance Bill proposes changes to limit the application of the tax only to untaxed profits that are not exempt from tax.” On tax on interim dividend as proposed in the Bill, PWC noted that “currently, companies that declare and pay interim dividends are required to remit income tax at 30 per cent on such dividends to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). There is a proposal to repeal this provision (which also specifies that Withholding Tax (WHT) should not be applied on dividends that are not paid in money). The audit firm argued that “while the repeal will address the intended exemption of advance tax on interim dividend, it may also imply that WHT should be applied on bonus shares or dividend-in-specie.” With regard to the Commencement and Cessation rules, “the Bill seeks to amend the contentious commencement and cessation rules in CITA. The effect of these rules is that companies suffer tax twice on profits of at least 12 months, when they commence business. “Conversely, on cessation of business, a period of up to 12 months escapes tax. The removal of these rules is considered a welcome development.” For Anti-avoidance provisions for business reorganisation, PWC noted that CITA empowers the FIRS to grant certain exemptions on group reorganisations, where certain criteria are fulfilled. Some of the criteria include (i) The companies involved should be part of a “recognised group of companies”, and (ii) The transaction should be for the purpose of the “better organisation of that trade or business”. The Bill proposes that to obtain the exemption, the entities involved should be part of a recognised group of companies 365 days before the transaction and the relevant assets should not be disposed earlier than 365 days after the transaction. The Bill defines “recognised group of companies” as “…a group of companies as prescribed under accounting standards”. Under the proposed Personal Income tax Act, the Amendment will attempt to clarify that pension contributions no longer require the approval of the Joint Tax Board (JTB) to be tax-deductible; On the other hand, the Bill seeks to remove the tax exemption on withdrawals from pension schemes except the prescribed conditions are met; Child relief (2,500 per child up to a maximum of 4) and dependent relief (2,000 per dependent for a maximum of 2) are to be deleted; Banks will be required to request for Tax Identification Number (TIN) before opening bank accounts for individuals, while existing account holders must provide their TIN to continue operating their accounts; Emails are to be accepted by the tax authorities as a formal channel of correspondence with taxpayers. Penalty for failure to deduct tax will also apply to agents appointed for tax deduction. This penalty is 10 per cent of the tax not deducted, plus interest at the prevailing monetary policy rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria; the conditions attached to tax exemption on gratuities have been removed. Therefore, gratuities are unconditionally tax exempt. The duties currently performed by the Joint Tax Board (JTB) as they relate to administering the Personal Income Tax Act, will now be performed by the FIRS. This, PWC believes “seems to be an error in the process of amendments to replace the word “Board” as it appears in Federal Board of Inland Revenue.” For Value Added Tax (VAT), The Bill is introducing VAT exemption on group reorganisations, provided that the following conditions are met: The sale is to a Nigerian company and it is for the better organisation of the trade or business; the entities involved are part of a recognised group of companies 365 days before the transaction and the relevant assets are not disposed of earlier than 365 days after the transaction. To PWC, the current practice is that companies send an approval request letter under CITA Section 29(9) to the FIRS and include a VAT exemption request, even though there is technically no basis for this in the VAT Act. For infractions, there are penalties. Penalty for VAT late filing of returns has now been increased to N50, 000 for the first month and N25, 000 for subsequent months of failure; the penalty for failure to register for VAT is reviewed upwards to N50, 000 for the first month of default and N25, 000 for each subsequent month of default; the penalty for failure to notify FIRS of change in company address to be reviewed upwards to N50, 000 for the first month of default and N25, 000 for each subsequent month of default. This penalty also covers failure to notify FIRS of permanent cessation of trade or business. Similar to the VAT amendment, the Bill is also introducing Capital Gains Tax (CGT) exemption on group reorganisations, provided that the following conditions are met: Assets are sold to a Nigerian company and is for the better organisation of the trade or business; the entities involved are within a recognised group 365 days before the transaction and the relevant assets are not disposed of earlier than 365 days after the transaction. According to PWC, the current practice is that companies send an approval request letter under CITA S29 (9) to the FIRS and include a CGT exemption request. Currently, the CGT Act imposes CGT on compensation for loss of employment above N10, 000. The Bill seeks to expand the coverage of this provision by renaming it “compensation for loss” and increase the minimum threshold from N10, 000 to N10 million.  Implications for the banking sector and capital market Assessing the impact of the Bill on the banking sector, Price Waterhouse Coopers argued that “overall, we expect the general changes being introduced by the Finance Bill and the specific amendments targeted at the banking sector and the capital market to have a positive impact, especially in the medium to long-term.” The clarifications, the audit firm said “provides better certainty around taxation for companies operating in the sectors. It is also expected to bring about a significant increase in investments and stimulate activities in the capital market.” However, they insist that “there are areas that still require further clarity. For example, the amendment does not solve the ambiguity of how general expenses would be attributed to tax-exempt income for tax purposes. Also, the thin capitalisation rule will require detailed guidelines or subsidiary legislation to address grey areas that may arise regarding definitions and interpretations. Therefore, affected companies should carry out an impact assessment and engage with government early to ensure best outcome and limit disputes with the tax authority.”  What’s in it for the insurance industry? PWC noted that “the proposed changes will drive positive growth in the industry and encourage foreign direct investment into the sector. This will also reduce the cost of compliance for insurance companies as ambiguous sections of the law are either eliminated or amended. The proposals also reduce uncertainty of tax treatments and the need for negotiation with tax officials which could, sometimes, provide an avenue for compromise.”  Implications for the energy and utilities secto While the Bill is still at the National Assembly awaiting final harmonisation and passage into law, PWC has maintained that “if the Finance Bill is passed into law, the energy and utilities sector (in particular, oil and gas) would witness an increase in their tax costs, including royalties. “Contrary to the outlook of the 2020 Budget proposal that envisages that the non-oil sector would contribute more to revenue generation, we expect that the oil and gas industry may, in fact, contribute more than it did in 2019, based on the current proposals. The lack of certainty around the fiscal outcomes of impending PSC reviews may also be an additional disincentive for future investments in the sector. Affected companies should assess the commercial impact of these changes on their current and future cash flows /returns.”  Implications for the consumer and industrial products industry According to PWC, the proposed changes were aimed at raising revenue for the government and easing tax compliance burden on taxpayers with a focus on small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs). However, one major issue that needs to be addressed is making VAT in Nigeria a proper pass-through, where only the final consumer bears the burden.” This, PWC said, “means that businesses should be able to obtain credit for their VAT costs. Currently, VAT credit is only available for goods purchased for resale or used in manufacturing other products. The current “VAT” system in Nigeria is closer to a cascading sales tax structure, and unfairly increases the cost of doing business along each level of the value chain.” PWC also noted that “while the 7.5 per cent VAT rate is low compared with the rate in other countries, these countries have a proper VAT system that avoids these challenges. Any further increase in the VAT rate without addressing this issue may be detrimental to the economy.”  Implications for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises Price Waterhouse Cooper in its assessment noted that “it is clear from these amendments that the government is trying to improve the fiscal policies and regulatory environment to stimulate growth in the MSME sector. However, there is also a deliberate effort to ensure that the sector contributes to revenue generation without excessive financial burden.” Specifically, PWC noted that “an area of focus for the government would be to formalise these businesses through the TIN project in collaboration with the banks. “Although the definition of instruments for stamp duty has been expanded to cover electronic transactions to give legal backing to the Central Bank’s N50 stamp duty drive, the increase of the chargeable amount to N10, 000 and above would reduce the challenges faced by SMEs and retailers who have recently transferred the N50 as an additional cost to their customers. “Most of the incentives in the bill are targeted at SMEs, and we hope that this will improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria. Some other incentives that would impact the SMEs include Export Expansion Grants and the Pioneer Incentives Schemes, especially given that the effective tax rate for a small company will now be less than the personal income tax rate for an informal business owner. This presents an opportunity for many informal sector players to formalise their businesses.”  For real estate investment companies The proposed tax changes, PWC said, “are geared towards making Real Estate Investment Companies (REICs) tax transparent investment vehicles in respect of dividends and rental income and placing the obligation for tax on the respective shareholders subject to meeting the minimum distribution threshold and timing.” This, it noted “would make Real Estate Investment Companies (REICs) more attractive. From a legal perspective, REICs are more attractive than Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) because they offer the legal protection of a company that limits liabilities to the unpaid capital. With the Finance Bill, they become more attractive as the tax effect produces the same result as REITs. As such, this initiative has the potential to encourage public investments and mobilise more liquidity for real estate projects with a corresponding positive impact on the capital market.”  The digital economy PWC believes that “a bit more engagement would be required to avoid double taxation in the area of corporate income tax.” The FIRS, it said, “may need to provide some clarifications on what mode of returns would be required for the permanent establishments. The FIRS may also need to invest in capacity to understand the businesses of taxpayers in this sector to determine what services are being provided to Nigerian residents and how to fairly determine and attribute the profits.