Tax experts have said that the e-tax payment platform rolled out by the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) over the weekend in Lagos was to eliminate all forms of fraud and inefficiencies in tax payment and remittance. According to Bar Akin Doherty, Managing Director, Alpha-Beta Consulting, the initiative was to make sure that tax payers are involved in the process of tax payment by themselves. “The era of going to tax station before paying tax has been eliminated by this platform. With this platform, a tax payer has to access the portal by himself and would also be able to know and see their tax history,” he stated. Explaining the importance of e-tax regime, he said, the goal is to primarily expose the features and capability of the new tax administration software to the end users and also provide guidelines and easy steps for effective and smooth adoption of the e-tax software. “E-tax platform is a digital tax administration solution leveraging on over 19 years of experience working with the largest state tax authorities across sub-Sahara Africa as well as the best in class tax processes and frameworks.” The E-tax leverages an open standards platform and enables enterprise wide data business rules management, greater transparency and increased taxpayer self-services, with a highly flexible technology architecture designed to accommodate change and integrate easily with legacy systems,” he stressed. Earlier in his presentation, Ayodele Subairu, Chairman, LIRS expressed that the e-tax platform will improve internally generated revenue, explaining that e-tax electronic invoicing and billing platform and its multi-channel digital payment collections functions enable simple seamless and secure tax payment collections for increased revenue generation. Subairu said, “e-tax offers a self-service portal to support tax payers in filling their legal obligations and help to improve tax compliance. This ensures tasks such as tax payer enumeration, assessment, return payers, reducing the turnaround time for business processes. It enables tax agencies have a comprehensive dashboard of tax payer data in one interface, such as employment records, cases, payment and assessment records amongst others, hence adding tax compliance and audit related activities.”