Text of a book review by The Nation Editorial Board Chairman Sam Omatseye in honour of former Inspector General of Police Sir Mike Okiro.  When we look at celebrities, men and women who have made an epic out of their lives, we see only the glitter. It is like the ephemeral white foam on the brand of coffee sometimes called café latte, its true colour, a deep blackness, smothered in a sort of royal froth. We see them on television, speaking with humble hauteur. Whether a political hero, an entrepreneurial maven, a soldierly avatar, a cultural pathfinder, a literary torch, an engineering disruptor, a police firebrand, or a social icon, an inventor, an innovator, a revolutionary, or even a martyr, they seem not to be like the rest of us. Somehow, God made them complete, as though they were a masterpiece that the master did not make from pieces. On the public square, their swagger is unmistakable, like a glamour lion roaring harmless before our eyes. We admire their attires, the babaringas, or Wole Soyinka’s mockery of the opera Wonyosi, the fez and bowler hats, or the suit from Manhattan, the ties knotted with the delicacy of the hands of the Brooks Brothers, the shoes at once pointing up to the heavens and the earth. They exoticise the concept of the automobile, their homes playing host to more cars that the car dealership. We see a blend of the lofty and the vain, of God and Mammon, of what that American novelist Scott F. Fitzgerald calls the beautiful and the damned. And some of us want to be beautiful even if it means we should first be damned. We weave myths about them because we know little about how they grew. May be their fathers were from Mars, and their mothers were related to the woman who sat beside Jesus and said her two sons, James and John, must sit beside him in the kingdom of heaven. If we don’t go that high, we come down and say, well, maybe their mothers were mammy water, and their fathers descended from Sango or Amadioha. That is why when they die, we see them on the moon, or we don’t just build statue in their honour, we honour them like deity. That is why biographies and autobiographies are necessary. They justify the humanisation of the hero, they clutch them from the skies, they free them from the fable, and put the epic into a narrative of their toils, grind and sweat; they see the blood, the sweat, the tears, the rise and fall of the human spirit, the dynamo of the march of history. Hence Ralph Waldo Emerson noted that “there is properly no history but the biographies of great men.” So, many might have woven a story about the life of Mike Mbama Okiro. Who was this guy who rose to become the commissioner of police in Lagos and Benue States, who earned double promotion to become the deputy inspector general of police, and then became an inspector general of police in a force where that position of DIG was often a death knell of careers? He finished it and became the chairman of the Nigerian Police Commission. All of these are in the public space. Yet in spite of his visibility over the past two decades at least in the public eye, the average Nigerian, even those who live in Oguta where he hails, know that an inquiry into Okiro’s life is still like peering into the dark. Few know what I know having read the biography ably put together by the writer Dozie Kingsley Bonseh Okebalama. His story reads like a novel, a boyhood of truancy and brilliance, of daring and obedience, of naivety and defiance, of a charmed life unknown to the fellow himself. How many know for instance, that Okiro is a firstborn but not the firstborn of his father Samuel Okiro and mother Amaruomunma Okiro. That they gave birth to thirteen children, and only four survived? And Okiro was by that cruel fate the first one that survived and thrived, opening the way to three others, although in between some of them still passed on. Some at birth, others in infancy. These strokes of ill-fortune turned the couple into refugees from infant mortality, moving from place to place, hoping the air and water and ambience and the spirit of a new place would save their children. The couple stuck together in spite of entreaties and pressures to break the marriage. But Okiro’s story is that of escapes and paradox, ultimately showing triumph of surprising beauty. He started, for instance, as a seminarian and that meant he was headed for the priesthood, but later he developed a love of writing and wanted to be a journalist like me, but ended up doing what he himself described as a gamble: he became a police man, to the shock of his father; and, looking back, to his own amazement. So, even when he resigned over principle as an officer years into the career, his letter was rejected. So, a man who started by trying to be a servant of God, rejected the pulpit and was unlike Paul who could not resist the heavenly calling. He then opted for the pen, but ended up with kondo and gun. He exchanged the frock for the police uniform. He did not want to wrestle with spirit like Jacob but with flesh and blood in the underbelly of society, the criminals who arguably were the devil made flesh. The other irony was that as a writer in school, especially as a student at the University of Ibadan, he became a discomfort for the authorities, and a young man who was going to confront students later in life as a police man was earlier in life a scourge of the police as a student, such that when students wanted to stage a protest, one of his bosses called Okiro and described the student protesters as “your people,” and was asked to take charge. But as a pupil, he was exemplary, scoring high marks. In fact, how do we explain how a person scores 105 marks over 100? Read the book and find out? Read how a boy who was believed to be too small to attend school wowed teachers by answering questions that pupils could not and earned  double promotion, just as it happened later as a police officer. But his gifts are manifold, a great swimmer, a cunning chess player, a drummer of taste, net-maker of intricate fingers, a marksman that prophesied his future not in priesthood but security, et al. But he was awful in the queen of all sports: soccer. As a swimmer, he became a local hero when he saved the life of a friend who was drowning. He became a drum major in the civil war. As a chess player, he beat the best in the country and he was going to represent Biafra in Switzerland just before the civil war ended. As a young man, his civil war exploits are benumbing. More so because he was not a soldier. At one time he ran home stranded in his village when he went in search of parents who had all fled from an advancing Nigerian army to Owerri. His only hope was a man and his son, who would not take him along. If the fellow looked away after his visceral plea, the soldiers might have caught up with him. A few minutes after he joined the ferry, their shouts of oshobe resounded and bullets landed frantically in the water beside them. Or shall we recall his conscription by a detachment of the Biafran forces. He was to go on a battle. But before then a certain priest saw him and identified him as a seminarian and he was let go. Everybody in that group was wiped out later by a Nigerian force. We cannot forget, of course, his many acts of truancy. One was being caught in a group of hemp-smoking boys, who had special names, but Mike was sober enough to call himself Mike as nickname. Or the fellow known as Baba Agba who sent him as a courier of hemp and set him up to buy it while hiding in the bush. A naïve Mike was lucky not to get caught. He also showed himself a man of great integrity when in the dormitory, he committed with his peers what was described as cockroaching, that is prowling about at night when all students should be on their beds. The school master caught them but Okiro and was to send them out of school. Okiro turned himself in and identified himself as the fellow he could not pick out. Because of him, everybody was freed. He probably learned this from his mother during the civil war. A woman had run away and left her huge sum in the boat as everyone scampered to safety. The money was in his mother’s hands for a long time. She went to the market to announce for the owner. The woman eventually found Okiro’s mother and his father insisted she counted it to be sure it was all complete. One of the great escapes was as an officer when Okiro’s car burned in an accident, and everyone stood watching until a strapping fellow drew him out of the flames. His wife was in the car, but saved. She thought she had been widowed. She went to the mortuary to look for him afterward. Okiro recovered through an Indian doctor’s recommendation of a certain variant of salt sold in the market, for him to regain not only consciousness but the use of a tongue that was, to all intents and purposes, dead. Ironically, his dear wife was going to lose her life in a freak accident and rather than being widowed, it was Mike that was widowered. Paradoxically, he also escaped lynching by students of the University of Nigeria when as an activist he spoke to them about the virtue of resisting the Gowon regime. The students were miffed that when they did so in the throes of the Nigerian crisis no other school joined them. So, they saw Okiro as trying to disrupt their academic tranquillity. His uncle bundled him out in a truck of livestock in the wee hours of the next day. His escapes were not of his life alone. His academics joined the trail. When he was a student at Ibadan, a certain unnamed female student took fancy to him and followed him around the campus until a friend told him he did not want to graduate because he was too close to a lady who was a professor’s mistress. Mike decided to avoid the lady including coming late to class so she could not sit beside him. He was on the cusp of making a second class upper, but the same unnamed professor argued that Mike did not deserve it because he was too busy playing about campus instead of focusing on his studies. The man was the dean of the faculty, and if anyone wants to probe a bit later for his identity, the archives are available. Because of that same fellow, Mike turned down an offer to work in the university because of the bullying spectre of the love-struck professor or, we may call him the professor of desire, apologies to Philip Roth. Here, Okiro’s escape was with scratches. We cannot forget the family saga when his younger brother Tony, whom he fought for when they were much younger, subjected him to a frog-jumping punishment because Tony was a Biafran officer. He bullied his older brother with his assistants in their own home, until their mother came to the rescue. The story of Okiro as a police officer was full of escapades and compassion. Was it his role in reducing crime in Lagos from its whirlwind years by over 85 percent, or was it the quelling of the restive days of OPC, or the serenity he evinced when the bombs of the Ikeja Cantonment quaked and lit up the whole city? Was it his ability to understand the scent of cohabiting with other ethnic groups? We cannot forget how he made a case for M.D. Abubakar before President Goodluck Jonathan when the latter asked him to recommend an IGP candidate. Jonathan said MD Abubakar was not a graduate. Okiro said the fellow may not be a university graduate but if you put 10 IGPs together and gave them an assignment, Abubakar would beat them all. This was loyalty not only to a fellow professional; he did not hear tribe. His appointment as IG reads like a piece of stage drama. I spare you the juicy detail but a man who went to congratulate his friend who was announced on NTA as IG ended up being the IG. What an awkward situation, and the man helped the disappointed man afterward to succeed him. After all, it fit just as two of them, Okiro and Onovo, wore the same size of shoes, trousers and shirts. The book is a work of great detail and research, and the writer took pains to shed lights on unknown reaches of life. Okiro also wrote some of the pages, expressing his skill in clear earnest. The prose flows without condescension or flattery. But the story flows for pages on end without quotes, which takes away some of its appeal of verisimilitude. But he does well to compensate with a deluge of pictures that tell their own stories. We also do not see Okiro’s thoughts as a young man about the civil war, his thoughts about pacifism or justice. Nor do we get a good read of how the mobile life of a soldier affected his family. Yet, it is a work of great episodes and events, of escapes and escapades, of a young man daring to be himself, a novelistic description of scenes, a probe of a life of a man who loved the adventure of life and tried, in the words of Emerson, to “live the life he imagined.” While following the words of the Poet Robert Browning that “a man’s reach should exceed his grasp but what is heaven for,”Okiro had ambition but not greed; fervour but not fanaticism and energy but not excess, audacity without recklessness and kindness without cynicism. He abided by Apostle Paul’s injunction that “let your moderation be known to all men.” If six children died and by being the seventh, he decided to hold on to life, he made a theatre of it and did it at the very top of human striving. So, he worked with all the presidents and heads of state of his generation, loved his God and his fellow men, and was not afraid to fail. But he did not fall to death because his God was with him like the famous quote that shows God as saying, “The times that you have seen only one set of footprints, Child, is when I carried you.” He is, like the hero of Joseph Conrad’s novel Lord Jim, one of us, but one with a difference. So, like the words of President Goodluck Jonathan in the forward to the book, Striking Footprints, I deeply recommend this book. 