By Oseheye Okwuofu, Ibadan Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde has said that the Supreme Court judgement affirming him as the authentic winner of the March 9 governorship election in the state is a proof of the fact that truth could not be coloured . Makinde’s victory had been contested by his lead rival and former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN) , Oloye Bayo Adelabu of the All Progressives Congress(APC) up to the Supreme Court level. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, on Wednesday, Makinde said that the judgement made it clear that truth could not be coloured. He said: “Those who had thought that the truth could be coloured at the tribunal or in the court have seen beyond reasonable doubt that the truth has only one colour which is constant. This fact has been demonstrated by the judgement of the Supreme Court. “The victory has just confirmed the fact that power belongs to the people and to God, of course. Indeed, power belongs to God and the people had expressed their decision through the power of the thumbs at the poll. It is only through the poll that one can emerge victorious in an election not through the backdoor.” The governor, who urged the people to celebrate moderately, said: “The Supreme Court also referred to as the judiciary in this case, has demonstrated that court is truly the habiter of the people. “My advice is that our people should celebrate in moderation. This is festivity period and the judgement is a big gift to the people of Oyo State. “The governor is not the governor of any political party but the governor of Oyo State duly elected by the people of the state. “We have, so far, being magnanimous in service by carrying all the people along in the provision of infrastructural development and other services. “Think of it; if street lights were provided in certain places, it would serve all and not a particular section of the public. “We have been given the full mandate, both legally at the court and politically, during the poll.”