By Moses Emorinken, Abuja  With Nigeria’s health sector mired in a myriad of issues, telemedicine holds a great promise in terms of alleviating problems at the primary healthcare level. This antidote was provided by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Medflit, Adeyinka Adeniran. Medflit is a health information technology platform that proffers solutions to problems through telemedicine, online pharmacy, hospital booking and home health services to Nigerians, . Speaking in an interview,  Adeniran stressed that any country that is desirous of providing access to healthcare services to all citizens needs to pay serious attention to its primary healthcare system because, being at the base of healthcare pyramid, primary healthcare is pivotal towards achieving  universal healthcare coverage for all individuals and families. “The aim of primary healthcare is to take care of less critical medical issues in the attainment of better health services for all. Effective delivery of healthcare services at all levels, however, requires availability of adequate infrastructure, diagnostic medical equipment, drugs and well-trained medical personnel. Unfortunately, Nigeria cannot fully boast these requirements essential for quality healthcare delivery,” he said. While emphasising on the many benefits of telemedicine, especially how it is being used in many parts of the world to improve access to quality healthcare services, the telemedicine expert stated that the remote diagnosis and treatment of patients by means of telecommunications technology holds a great promise to alleviate primary healthcare problems in the country by providing primary healthcare to Nigerians in the comfort of their homes. “Patients can reach healthcare professionals for evaluation, diagnosis and treatment of less critical conditions at a distance, which in turn reduces demand on primary health facilities. Primary healthcare services, including medical counseling, review of screenings and laboratory results, medication management and provision of ongoing care can all be accessed via telemedicine,” he said. Adeniran further explained that telemedicine will enable people access healthcare readily at an affordable rate cheaper than the cost of hospital visits, adding that telemedicine provides an added advantage in its ability to cater to the needs of patients anywhere and at any given time. With the use of telemedicine, patients do not need to travel long distance to receive medical care; the prompt delivery of healthcare services would ultimately save lives, he said. “We have successfully provided people with connections to physicians for consultations, quality home service with unlimited video and voice calls, doctor’s prescription with no waiting lines, flexible bookings and access to a variety of hospitals. The overwhelming positive feedback we have received from individuals who use the platform has been gratifying to me and the team. Our vision is to build a platform where people can access quality healthcare at minimal cost and we will continue to innovate to fulfill this vision. “We are also looking forward to starting a TV program soon to educate Nigerians on health related topics while debunking myths and fake information about health. Our beliefs, culture, and access to information can shape how we think about our health and having the wrong information can be extremely harmful. In line with its vision to improve access to quality healthcare at an affordable rate, our telemedicine platform has taken up a mandate to educate Nigerians on prevalent disease conditions, prevention and early detection. Our recently introduced array of educational health materials and resources will equip users with knowledge on prevention and management of diseases,” he said.