THREE years after the eighth senate rejected his earlier bid for foreign loan, President Muhammadu Buhari returned to the body seeking approval to borrow about $29.9 billion for development projects. The president stopped short of accusing the eighth senate of bad faith for not approving his administration’s 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan in its entirety, with the exception of the Federal Government’s emergency projects for the Northeast covering four states’ projects, and one China Exim Bank-assisted railway modernisation projects for Lagos–Ibadan segment, out of a total of 39 projects. According to the president, “the outstanding projects in the plan that were not approved by the legislature are, nevertheless, critical to the delivery of government’s policies and programmes relating to power, mining, road, agriculture, health, water and educational sectors.” Is the president saying that the misgivings of the eighth senate are entirely without foundation? That would certainly be most uncharitable. Aside the weight of public opinion which clearly dictated caution at the time, there were also genuine apprehensions about the appreciable surge in the debt trajectory in the five years of the Buhari administration.  That the $10.32 billion external debt inherited by the administration at inception in 2015 more than doubled to $22.08 billion by 2018 would attest to this fact. The other is the N7.9 trillion – an amount equal to the 2018 budget – said to have been spent by the Federal Government on debt servicing in the last five years.  In all, we do concede to the president’s prerogative to set out his spending plan just as the senate has the duty to either approve or withhold approval. We understand the imperative of borrowing considering that the current revenue profile leaves little choice in the face of the nation’s yawning infrastructure gap. We note for instance a study conducted by Mckinsey which puts the amount needed to bridge the infrastructure gap at $31bn annually, over a 10-year period. Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex Okoh, in his own estimation puts the average required to turn the infrastructure tide at $100 billion per annum for the next six years. These figures, although disparate, attest to the same reality of the nation’s yawning infrastructure gap that requires to be bridged, which, unfortunately, cannot be met under the current budget profile. Caution, however, is the word. We urge the senate to take a dispassionate look at the loan request.  It is certainly not enough for the executive branch to state that the projects for which the loans are meant are needed to catalyse the economy; nor is it acceptable to hand the executive a carte blanche simply because it claims that the country is under-borrowed. If anything, the loans must be strictly for investment in critical infrastructure. For each, the senate must demand a convincing business case as well as realistic repayment plan. It must insist on a tracking mechanism to enable it follow through its utilisation. Two vital areas which are sorely needed to free up funds for development but which the government has done little about are the humongous wastes in the bureaucracy and the outrageous wages/remuneration claimed by political office holders. A window of the extent to which bureaucracy reeks of swamp is the disclosure by the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, in April, that the Federal Government recovered over N500 billion in personnel costs through the implementation of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System (IPPIS). Just as the government can and should do more, of greater urgency is the need for it to trim down the wages and remuneration of all classes of political officeholders. That done, Nigerians would have little difficulties in appreciating why such loans are sometimes necessary.