When Defence Headquarters (DHQ) spokesman Brig-Gen Onyema Nwachukwu declared that “Boko Haram is not occupying any part of this country,” he must have expected the public to take him seriously. But his assertion didn’t reflect reality. A December 24 report quoted him as saying: “I want to make it clear that Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa (ISWAP) have been defeated and pushed into what we call the Tombus Islands. “These are the islands between Nigeria and neighbouring countries of Niger and Chad, where they have their enclave and from where they come out and carry out attacks on soft targets. Boko Haram is not holding any inch of the country.” But about a week earlier, Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum had said that three local government areas in the state were still under the control of Boko Haram.  The captured areas are Marte, Kukawa and Abadam, according to Zulum. The information contradicted the Federal Government, which had led the public to believe that the terrorist group had been incapacitated, claiming it had been “technically defeated.” Zulum raised the issue when the Minister of Defence, Major-General Bashir Magashi (retd), visited the Government House in Maiduguri, the state capital, on December 16. Magashi was in Borno to assess the counter-insurgency operations. Zulum was quoted as saying: “Under Kukawa local government area, Baga, Cross-Kauwa and Kukawa town itself need to be retaken; there must be military presence and with the resettlement of communities back in these three locations with immediate effect.” The minister didn’t contradict the governor. Rather, the minister repeated the Federal Government’s time-worn reassurances:  “We intend to re-design the battle to suit the environment we are operating so that with seriousness we can take on the Boko Haram and see to their end. “I assure you; the Federal Government is doing its best to provide resources, both human, capital and equipment to ensure that the operation is done properly and with the speed it deserves.” Magashi added: “We are in this operation for the past 10 years and the country cannot afford to continue in this battle. We must take the bull by the horns. “We can do it and I reassure the people of Borno that the situation will soon come back to normal.” Obviously, the minister of Defence and the Defence Headquarters spokesman are not on the same page. What is the true situation? Of course, the governor is expected to know if parts of the state he governs are under the control of Boko Haram. Is Brig-Gen Nwachukwu spreading disinformation?