By Taofik Salako, Capital Market Editor  The board of International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) has begun public exposure on proposed guidance to help IOSCO members address potential conflicts of interest and associated conduct risks arising from the role of market intermediaries in the debt capital raising process. IOSCO is the global body of securities regulators and its members regulate more than 95 per cent of the world’s securities markets in more than 115 jurisdictions. Nigeria is a first-class member of IOSCO, having served on its board. IOSCO yesterday stated that conflicts of interest and associated conduct risks can weaken investor confidence and undermine debt capital markets as an effective vehicle for issuers to raise funding. To help regulators identify and address these risks, IOSCO yesterday published the consultation report conflicts of interest and associated conduct risks during the debt capital raising process. Among other things, the consultation seeks public comments on the use of distributed ledger technology (DLT) in bond issuances and the potential benefits and risks of using this technology, including for managing conflicts of interest. The report describes the key stages of the debt raising process where the role of intermediaries might give rise to conflicts of interest. The proposed guidance comprises of eight measures grouped according to three key aspects of the debt raising process including pricing of debt securities and risk management transactions, quality of available information to investors and allocations of debt securities. “While the guidance focuses on traditional corporate bonds, it may prove useful to IOSCO members considering raising capital through other types of debt securities,” IOSCO stated.  According to IOSCO, the guidance was the second part of a two-stage project on conflicts of interest in capital raising. The first stage focused on the equity capital raising process with the final report conflicts of interest and associated conduct risks during the equity capital raising process published in September 2018. As a global body of securities regulator, IOSCO brings regulators together to cooperate in developing, implementing and promoting internationally recognized and consistent standards of regulation, oversight and enforcement in order to protect investors, maintain fair, efficient and transparent markets, and seek to address systemic risks. The body also seeks to enhance investor protection and promote investor confidence in the integrity of securities markets, through strengthened information exchange and cooperation in enforcement against misconduct and in supervision of markets and market intermediaries. It also promotes exchange of information at both global and regional levels on regulators’ experiences in order to assist the development of markets, strengthen market infrastructure and implement appropriate regulation. 