 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) on Monday said the Federal Government was determined to lift 100million Nigerians out of poverty. This, he said, will be done through the social investment programmes (SIPs) and other weath creation policies. The Vice President said the programmes, especially the school feeding programme, was the first in Africa.
Osinbajo was in Ibadan to honour the former Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi on his 70th birthday. He said through the feeding programme, over 9.9million children are fed daily, with over 500,000 jobs created. The event featured a round table discussion, which held at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan. Dr Ayo Olukotun of the Department of Political Science, Olabisi Onabanjo University, presented a paper on: Managing the dynamics of Nigeria’s advancement: The social-economic perspectives. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, who was one of the discussants, said the rich Nigerians should be taxed and the money used to benefit of the poor. He said: “We must mercilessly tax the rich if we are the cure the problem of poverty. We have two contending forces, the poor and the privileged rich. The rich have no problem; they are comfortable. “The problem is that the poor are in the majority. And the point is if the rich fail to address this problem, the comfort of the rich will be taken away, so they must release much of their money the help the poor.”
The minister disagreed with Dr Olukotun’s submission that almost all the economic empowerment programmes were merely conduit pipes to drain public funds. The university don said despite the government’s efforts to enhance social security, there were still social hurdles, such as urban housing and humanitarian crises and infrastructural gaps. Ajimobi thanked the dignitaries for honouring him and praised Ibadan Elders who, he said, have been his “Rock of Gibraltar” all along. The former governor said it was by God’s grace that he was being celebrated, having served as a Senator and a two-term governor. He said having attained 70, he was no longer concerned about politics for elective offices, but politics of service.
Also at the event were Governors Babatunde Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Dr Kayode Fayemi ( Ekiti), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Alhaji Abdullahi Gaduje ( Kano); General Alani Akinrinade, Alhaja Serifat Aregbesola and former Osun State Governor, Dr Olagunsoye Oyinlola. Others are former Oyo State Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Catholic Archbishop of Ibadan Diocese Gabriel Abegunrin, Chief Imam of Ibadanland Shiek Agbotomokekere and wife of the Ekiti governor Dr Bisi Fayemi. Former Ogun State Governor of Ogun Olusegun Osoba, former All Progressive Congress (APC) National Chairman Chief Bisi Akande, Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, Pa. Ayo Adebanjo, The Nation Editorial Board chairman Sam Omatseye were also present.