 Lagos State Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Mr. Sunday Aroni has urged corps members to disregard a fake letter being shared on the social media that claimed they had permission to travel for the yuletide from December 20. In an interview on the sidelines of the closing of the Batch C Stream II corps members Wednesday, Aroni also said the person behind the fake letter bearing a forged signature of the NYSC Director-General, Brigadier General Shuaibu Ibrahim, would be prosecuted if found. Aroni said: “I want to equally use this medium to let the Public know that some hoodlums, some miscreants have come out with a letter purportedly sign by my Director-General allowing corps members to travel for Christmas holiday, that was a fake letter, that did not come from the NYSC, it was forged and it is very criminal. If the author is caught, he will be prosecuted.  So I want to warn all member of Public to disregard that letter.” The Coordinator said the fake letter was printed on an old letter-head of the Lagos State NYSC which is no longer in use. In his speech, Aroni counseled the corps members to be mindful that their activities on the social media do not promote falsehood and hate speech. “May I use this occasion to admonish my dear corps members to avoid the abuse of social media, broadcast of false news and hate speech in line with the Federal Government’s effort at containing avoidable crisis in our country,” he said. Also speaking, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, Mr Wale Ahmed, advised the corps members to impact the communities they are posted to. “As you move to the next stage of your service year, I encourage you to create visions and execute projects that will advance the overall socio-economic lives of the people in the communities you would be posted to.  I also enjoin you to remain good ambassadors of the NYSC shceme,” he said. The ceremony featured the quick and slow march parade by some of the 1,832 corps members mobilized for the stream led by Parade Commander, Emmanuella Bob-Manuel of Caleb University, the first female to lead the parade in a long while.