 Some law experts and other eminent Nigerians have stressed the need to urgent review the nation’s tax laws. They said this would raise revenue for government and boost the economy. They argued that a review of the laws would bring the nation up-to-date with current realities, ensure effective revenue collection and curb leakages currently being experienced in the tax collection process. The speakers include the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami; President of the Court of Appeal (PCA), Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa and the Chairman of Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Opeyemi Bamidele. Others are: former Edo State governor, Professor Oserheimen Osunbor; Justice Adebukola Banjoko of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT); Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Justice, Ozurigbo Ugonna and Acting Chairman of the Nigerian Law Reform Commission (NLRC), Prof Jummai Audi. They spoke yesterday in Abuja at a national workshop on “The Reform of Tax Laws in Nigeria: The Companies Income Tax Act, Cap. C21 LFN 2004.” All the speakers at the event, organised by the NLRC, hailed the agency for its initiative to reform the laws. They said the decision had become more apt as the nation seeks improved revenue in the face of mounting needs. Represented by the Special Assistant (SA) to the President on Financial Crimes, Abiodun Aikomo, the Justice Minister said a review of the nation’s tax laws would make them more compliant with global and international best practices. “The current policy of the Federal Government is to encourage a diversification of revenue generation through the encouragement of alternatives to oil revenue. “This diversification has become necessary with the realisation that dependency on crude oil earning cannot sustain our public expenditure. “One of such credible and reliable alternative sources of revenue for most countries is, and in our peculiar circumstances, one that can reduce over-dependence on oil. “The reform of the extant law will greatly boost the country’s revenue base and build a solid economic structure. “As things stand, the Nigerian legislative framework lacks the required efficacy to address the challenges resulting from the implementation of Companies Income Tax Act, hence the need to review and reform the Act,” Malami said. Bamidele and Ugonna (who was represented by Dike Uche) assured of the National Assembly’s support.  The lawmakers promised speedy passage of Bills to be generated, at the end of the workshop, for amendments to aspects of the tax laws. Bulkachuwa (who was represented by Justice Mohammed Shuaibu), Justice Banjoko and Osunbor suggested areas to amend among the existing laws and promised their supports to carry the review process. Audi explained that the reform would correct the challenges associated with the operation of existing Companies Income Tax Act and bring its provisions in conformity with global standard as well as re-position the country to attain its full potentials in the collection of taxes to boost the country’s revenue base and build a solid economic structure. “If taxes are to be collected effectively and fairly, both in monetary and equitable terms, for the benefit of all Nigerians, our proposed or intending reforms should be key and must warrant serious consideration, as there seems to be an obvious short comings or lacuna noticed in the operation of the entire Act.” In identifying some of the shortcomings in the existing Act, Prof Audi said: “It is a defect in the Act for tax authority to treat certain undistributed profits of a company as distributed for tax purposes. This is unfair and can lead to forcing a company to declare dividends when it intended to reinvest such profit for growth and development of the company. “Powers of the President to exempt any company or class of companies from the payment of tax under this Act is very wide. “Powers of the President and Minister to allow certain donations to be deducted from the profits of a company for tax purposes is very wide. “Some of the provisions of the existing Act proposed for amendment include section 10 of the Act, where the commission proposed that every company shall after registration with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) register with the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and obtain a Tax Identification Number (TIN), which shall be used in all tax and other transactions. “This implies that aside the Incorporation Number obtained from CAC, a company shall also have a TIN after registration with FIRS which shall be used for tax and other purposes. “In reforming Section 13 of the Act, the commission is proposing an amendment by expanding the section to bring within the tax net companies with significant economic presence in Nigeria and to define the phrase ‘significant economic presence’ and to amend the section to provide for a new provision to impose six per cent tax on all online advertising. “In Section 60, the commission proposes that any person filing a return upon demand by the commission shall do same with a sworn affidavit verifying the truth contained in the returns filed. This is to ensure that those who make false statement can be prosecuted. “Also, the commission proposed increase in the punishment provided in some sections of the Act, e.g. Section 64(7) from N10,000 to N50,000 and six months imprisonment to two years; Section 55(3)(a) from N25,000 to N50,000 and Section 55(3)(b) from N25,000 to N50,000;  Section 94 from N1 000 to N100,000. “The commission also proposed the expansion of the Second Schedule to the Act on Capital Allowances to accommodate assets such as ships, aircraft and intangible assets such as licence, franchise and so on.”