Kwara state police command has said that investigations are on to unravel reasons behind the murder of the former Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) staff Ibrahim Ajayi Allah. The ex-NNPC staff was about two weeks ago hacked to death in his Oke-Oyi farm site of Ilorin East local area of the state by his assistant. The police had reportedly arrested one person in connection with the crime. Spokesperson of the command, Ajayi Okasanmi told our correspondent that police had not concluded investigations on the matter, adding that the command was yet to make another arrest. Wife of the 65- year- old Ogidi, Ijumu local government area of Kogi state born retired NNPC worker, Modinat described her husband’s death and cruel and gruesome. She said: “My husband’s death was cruel and wicked. The attacker has made his three children fatherless and I’m now a widow. The death has also brought untold misery to many homes. “There are those on his scholarships, many are graduates, there are many aged that he was taking care of. He took good care of me as well as his children’s education and well-being. In fact, it’s great vacuum. Many people have expressed sorrow over his demise. “He took care of his workers. This man that killed him was his assistant on the farm. He entrusted him so much. “He calls me every morning around 5:00am. When I didn’t see his call on that day, I was worried, thinking he didn’t probably charge his phone. “When it was around 6:30 am, I called him, none of the lines was going through. At about 7:00am, I succeeded with one of his lines and the person who picked asked what I was to the owner of the line. I said I’m his wife. “The person said he’s a police officer and that he’s speaking from police station. He said my husband had an accident. I called him back and that’s when he said I should come to police station at Oke Oyi in Ilorin. I was already shaking. “I decided to call his brother in Ilorin and he said he’s yet to know what’s going on because he was just called too. He told me my husband’s car was still parked where it was but he had not seen his brother. “However, people had already been calling me to commiserate while in the bus on my way from Abuja to Ilorin. I told myself that my husband is not dead, why the condolences. “By the time I got to Ilorin, it was about 8:00pm. I called the police officer that I was already in Ilorin but he said I should come the next day since it is already late. “Around 9:00 pm, my husband’s brother called me to say that my husband’s phone was found in his Oke Oyi farm where he was reportedly matcheted. I was just wailing and crying upon the reality that dawned on me. “When we got to the police station the following morning, I was showed picture of my husband. He was killed like when one kills a goat. I was showed the assailant too. “I saw him in handcuffs on his legs and arms. I asked him why he killed my husband and he said he wouldn’t have intentionally killed him. “He said he was under a spell (eedi). He said my husband was nice to him, took care of him and promised to buy a car for him but didn’t know how it happened. “He told me physically that he was the one that committed the offence but didn’t know what came over him. I was shaking and couldn’t bear to hear anything from him again before he was taken back inside. They even thought I wanted to fight him because I was so dejected. “My husband’s corpse had been taken to mortuary. We asked for the release but police said they wanted to carry out autopsy. So, he was eventually released to us on Monday evening for burial being a Muslim. The police told us they would have to investigate the matter. “I appeal to the police authority in the state to help me carry out all investigations needed on death of my husband and bring all culprits to book so that justice is prevailed in order to deter others from doing such in future. This is a case of murder. This man must be prosecuted because he deliberately committed the offence”, she said. Former National President of Ogidi Development Union and childhood friend of late Ibrahim Tunde Ipimisho described the deceased as a trustworthy and dutiful personality. “I have just returned from the village where I went to bury my close childhood friend. His was a most painful death.
“Ibrahim Ajayi Allah and I were pals right from the primary school. Although he did not go beyond secondary school, fortune smiled on him. “He joined the NNPC and rose steadily through the ranks and also made some good money. “When I became National President of Ogidi Development Union in 2006, at a most turbulent period in our community, I needed a trusted ally to head the all important Abuja branch. “He took the job and exceeded all expectations. “Three years ago, he retired and chose to pursue agriculture which has always been his passion. “He bought a large tract of land in Ogidi and poured all his passion into it. However, because of so many unanticipated factors, the returns were not as expected. “About six months ago, he decided to gradually move out of Ogidi. So he bought about eight hectares of land at Oke-Oyi near Ilorin and restarted his farming there. “Two Friday, he was hacked down on his farm in a most gruesome way. “The suspect picked up by the police is a man from that community with whom he had developed a close relationship. He was always going in and out with the guy. “In fact, on the day of the murder, they were together and had lunch together before my friend was savagely axed to death at about 5pm. “Then the police searched the guy’s house, they found my friend’s phone, blood stained clothes and other personal effects. He is said to have confessed to having killed my friend.”