 HERE is a time for everything under the sun. A time it was we were born and the time will come when we will be no more. So, whether we live or we die, we must fulfill that purpose of time and this can only be done when we are alive. It is when we are alive that we can commend or condemn. We praise those who are good; we condemn the bad. But whatever we do, one thing is constant: what is good is good and what is bad is bad. This is why the public rises as one to condemn what it considers bad and also praises what it considers good. On such occasions, it does not bode well for those known to be outspoken to keep quiet. In our society, we have men and women that are ready to confront those who misuse power. These people can be found in all walks of life. They are the ones who put those in power in check. Without them, many of our leaders would become dictators. At times, these people stray, but some of them quickly retrace their steps and remain relevant. Many of us know the story of the late Dr Olu Onagoruwa (SAN), who parted way with his friends in the human rights community in 1993 to serve in the Abacha junta. He shunned all entreaties not to serve in that regime, saying he was going there on a ‘’reform mission’’. Onagoruwa lived up to his promise. In 1994, he disowned the eight decrees issued by Abacha, saying he would not be a party to laws that ousted the courts’ powers. Not many of his colleagues, including those who condemned him for taking up the job of attorney-general and minister of justice under Abacha would have done what he did. It is now obvious that not many rights activists are in the mould of Onagoruwa. What happened at the Federal High Court in Abuja last Friday has shown that Onagoruwa towered above many of his associates who took him to the cleaners for serving in the Abacha regime. If Onagoruwa could risk his life and that of his family by repudiating the Abacha decrees, what will some so-called activists serving in the Buhari administration say is holding them back from condemning what happened last week at the Abuja court? Times like this separate the activists from the pretenders. You are not an activist just by shouting aluta! Anybody can do that. You are an activist when you rise to the occasion to condemn what is unjust and inequitable. An activist should know no friends or foes. His only focus should be justice and equity. What happened in Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu’s court was terrible and every rational person must condemn it and demand that those behind it be brought to justice. Was the invasion of Justice Ojukwu’s court the proper way for the Directorate of State Service (DSS) to rearrest Omoyele Sowore barely 24 hours after he was released on her ladyship’s order? Was the invasion organised? Who orchestrated it? Sowore and his lawyers are pointing fingers at the DSS, but the agency denies having anything to do with the invasion. It is hard to believe the DSS in this matter. Everything points to the fact that it knew about the incident. As the Yoruba will say, the baby died today, the witch cried yesterday, who does not know that the hag is behind the child’s death. There is a running battle of sorts between Sowore and DSS which arose over his RevolutionNow Campaign. The agency held on to Sowore for 140 days despite a court order that he should be released. It finally complied with that order last Thursday after Justice Ojukwu gave it 24 hours to release the online publisher or face her wrath. So, if Sowore and his lawyers are accusing the DSS of invading the court to get him, they are justified. Denying the claim, the DSS alleged that Sowore’s supporters mobbed him when he ran back into the court in a bid to shield him from ‘’an imaginary arrest’’. The agency added: ‘’A critical look at the videos in circulation would convince any objective viewer that there was no DSS personnel during the entire period the Sowore crowd acted out its orchestrated drama… and from the latest development, it has become obvious that it was meant…to serve a propagandist purpose as well as bring the Service to disrepute’’. The DSS boxed itself into a corner on this matter. It talked of ‘’an imaginary arrest’’. Was the agency not in the court to rearrest Sowore? If it was not there to rearrest him, what then was it doing in the court’s vicinity? Its story is hard to believe and that is why those who naturally would have supported it are condemning it for playing into the hands of the enemy as it were. The law is the law and you do not need to be aggressive to enforce it. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said as law enforcement agents, the DSS operatives are not above the law. It called for the prosecution of those involved in the incident. Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) Chairman Prof Itse Sagay (SAN) said Sowore’s rearrest looked bad on the surface because he was released a day earlier, adding: ‘’I feel Nigerians are entitled to an explanation. It’s not something you can do and keep quiet. It’s not alright. There’s something wrong in that…” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has also spoken his mind. Giving reasons for not attending the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism ceremony where he was to be conferred with an award, he said, among others, ‘’in view of of the development on Friday in the Sowore case, I think it will be insensitive and inappropriate to attend the ceremony’’. To Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, ‘’the bar must be terror to demagogues. It is when our voice of the bar is heard consistently that it will earn respect. Will people go and desecrate our courtrooms and we keep quiet? The bar must condemn it. There is no explanation anybody can give’’. Nobel laureate Prof Wole Soyinka urged the government to rein in the DSS operatives before they do more harm. As expected, presidential spokesman Femi Adesina said the ‘’invasion was not a desecration of the temple of justice because the DSS has explained how things played out’’. So, we should take the DSS’ explanation hook, line and sinker. That cannot be the gospel truth because there are two sides to a story. Surprisingly, Festus Keyamo (SAN), Minister of State (Labour), a vociferous voice in the rights community before his appointment, has not found it necessary to comment on the incident. It is not in Keyamo’s character to keep quiet over matters like this. He will come out forcefully to side with the victim and condemn the aggressor. May be that is now in the past. A true activist, just as Onagoruwa did, must not keep quiet in the face of tyranny because he is holding political office. Anyway, not every activist can be like Onagoruwa and the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi (SAN), who will not see evil and keep quiet.