 Welcome to the concluding part of this teaching! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Maximising the Wonders of Godliness! From scriptures, we understand that godliness is not a state of perfection but a tireless ‘press’ towards it. It is written, For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come (1 Timothy 4:8). This means that maintaining a life of godliness is a lifelong battle for every believer and we cannot overcome without the fight of faith. Therefore, we must keep pressing because when the press stops, our victory is truncated (Matthew 5:6). It is also important to understand that godliness is a highly profitable two-way virtue that guarantees eternity and ensures all-round profiting on the earth. That is why we must put up a fight against every form of ungodliness or we live under the oppression of sin perpetually. Natures of Sin How, Then, Do We Break the Trap of Sin? Some of these relevant spiritual gifts include: What are the Benefits of Godliness? In conclusion, everyone who genuinely walked in the fear of God in scriptures became a wonder among men. This is why we must guard against any pleasure that seeks to rob us of our glorious future (Proverbs 21:17). Therefore, receive grace to walk in godliness as a lifestyle! However, you must be born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Walking in the Newness of Life, Conquering Controlling Powers and The Blood Triumph. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.  