Prof. Sheriffdeen Tella, an economist and former Vice-Chancellor, Crescent University, Abeokuta, Ogun state is a Senior Lecturer at the state-owned Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye. In this interview with Charles Okonji, he advises all tiers of government on major priority areas for 2020. Excerpts: What is your take on economic projections for 2020? The economy for the Q1 would still be sluggish, assuming that the budget is actually going to be implemented from January. The disbursement of money would be quite slow because of the civil service bureaucracy, except the government removes the bureaucracies. But I know that the economy will pick up by the Q2, should money be released adequately and appropriately, especially for capital projects. However, the money we have to spend servicing debt is very huge, and this is not good for the country, except if we re-negotiate our debts so that we can have enough money to invest in infrastructure. So the initial thing is that the economy would be quite sluggish in the first quarter. You can recall that in the past five years, the budget has never been fully implemented because of the system ran. The budget has been running from middle of the year to the following year, hence, could not actually be implemented accordingly. So, now that we want to start from the beginning of the year, it is expected that from March, we will start seeing the effects on the economy, which would be good for the Nigerian economy. However, the problem we are going to experience is the humongous amount budgeted for debt servicing. We are going to be spending over 25 percent of the total budget servicing debts, and this a very big source of worry. The issue of getting income is also there, when the economy picks up, you cannot get the expected income. Recently, the price of oil just went up to $57 per barrel, but they buy oil upfront and before that money starts coming in, it would be around that March also. Unless we have some savings, otherwise, the economy would be very slow. We should also realise that there is pressure on the exchange rate because our foreign reserve has gone down and that is because we are paying all sorts of money for imports. However, in December like this, we have a lot of inflows from remittance from those in diaspora, but that is not happening this year because the exchange rate is supposed to come down now, but the exchange rate has gone up to as high as N360, and all these indicate that the economy is not going to pick up fast. So we have to bear with the government for at least three months so that the economy can pick up. In terms of inflation, what is your position? Inflation would still be at double digits, it would remain marginally up for the fact that the border has been closed, and this is because the little goods we have would still be rationed. The prices of agricultural products would still be high because people are shifting from rice to yam and all of that. So, for this reason, the price of yam and all other agricultural produce have started rising, but they would come down by the middle of the year 2020 because many people would go back to farm and start producing all these items, and also people would start adjusting their consumption patterns. Inflation rate would not go down but it will go up marginally. What would productivity and manufacturing look like? The fact that many of the products that are competing with our own are no longer coming in through the border, I think the manufacturers would pick up the challenge to produce more in order to meet up with the market demand. Also, for the closure of the nation’s border, the competition has gone down, in fact, there is no more competition. So they need to take advantage of this to improve their productivity, because they have a lot of capacity underutilised. So if they invest more, they would be able to improve their productivity and churn out more goods, but the challenge of forex is still there because they still import some inputs. Also, the interest rate issue is still there, except the CBN reviews it down to single digit and allow capital to flow, so that this can induce production. Productivity must increase, as long as they pay their workers very well. What is your position on growth policies of the economy? If the policy is sustained, that is the monetary and the fiscal policies, growth would be marginal, and if the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies are fully implemented with proper monitoring, there will be significant positive growth from the Q2 (second quarter) of 2020, but from January it would be quit sluggish. With the technical implementation of AfCFTA in July 2020, what will be the impact on the economy as at present? We are talking of trade, but we have to produce before we can start talking about trade, we are not producing yet. The only thing we have to sell is the crude oil. Initially, I do not think it will favour us, but if people start demanding for our products, we are going to meet up with the demand. But for now, we are still struggling to produce for local consumption. Initially, it will not be beneficial but as time goes on, we will benefit. So, what happens in the first quarter of the year would determine if we are going to be a big participant or not. Do you think borrowing of $30m to fix infrastructure will induce economic growth? It may not be too good for the country to borrow for infrastructure. We have been borrowing all the while to fix infrastructure yet we still have infrastructural gap. We have to access what we have on ground before we can think of that, because all the borrowing has encouraged corruption. Once we borrow money to fix infrastructure, people would be thinking of how to embezzle that money. But my advice to the government is to partner with those foreign countries in form of Public Private Partnership (PPP) to build the roads, the electricity, the rail lines and others and to operate it for about 15 to 20 years and collect their money before returning them back to the government. There was the Green Bond, the SUKUK Fund, and the Infrastructure Bond, what have we done with them? The government is advised to give account of all these borrowed funds before they can think of another borrowing for infrastructure, because it will end up in private pockets.