The implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement begins in July 2020. Seven months to its take-off, the National Action Committee approved by President Muhammadu Buhari to drive Nigeria’s readiness in projects and initiatives for AfCFTA implementation has intensified efforts to tighten all the loose ends. This and other trade remedy mechanisms put in place are seen as indications that Nigeria is poised to leverage opportunities within the trade liberalisation deal to shape more inclusive economic development. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  Nigeria looks good to latch on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement to facilitate economic growth and diversification, create jobs and wealth for investors and businesses. Ahead of the implementation of AfCFTA, which begins in July 2020, preparations are in top gear to ensure Nigeria benefits optimally from the trade liberalisation deal. Already, both the National Action Committee approved by President Muhammadu Buhari to coordinate the work of relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and drive Nigeria’s readiness in projects and initiatives, and the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) have commenced work aimed at achieving Nigeria’s objectives under the AfCFTA. The AfCFTA seeks to create a continental trade bloc of 1.2 billion people, with a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about $3 trillion. It was envisaged that AfCFTA – the world’s largest free trade area since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1994 – will boost intra-African trade by about 60 per cent by 2022. According to the Senior Expert of Customs, AfCFTA unit of African Union (AU), Willie Shumba, “Intra-Africa trade is just 15 per cent of its total trade, compared with 19 per cent in Latin America, 51 per cent in Asia, 54 per cent in North America and 70 per cent in Europe.” Speaking at a recent forum in Lagos, with the theme: “The AfCFTA: Current Status of Negotiations,” Shumba regretted that African countries were not trading among themselves; that Africa’s fundamental role in global trade has been to provide raw commodities in exchange for manufactured goods. The AfCFTA, therefore, hoped to boost intra-African trade by committing African Union (AU) member states to liberalising services and trade and removing tariffs on 90 per cent of goods. It was also expected to help boost domestic and foreign investment in the partnering countries. The agreement entered into force on May 30, 2019, having been ratified by the required 22 countries. Currently, 54 countries are said to have signed; 27 countries have ratified the landmark agreement. Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari signed the AfCFTA agreement on Sunday, July 7, 2019, making Africa’s largest and most populous country the 53rd to sign the free trade treaty. The signing was done in Niamey, Niger Republic, at the 12th Extraordinary Session of the Assembly of the AU on AfCFTA. Nigeria signed the agreement after 16 months of foot-dragging, during which government said it carried out thorough consideration of the agreement and country-wide sensitisation and consultation of stakeholders. Now, ahead of the July 2020 implementation of the Agreement, Nigeria, through the National Action Committee chaired by Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo, as well as the NOTN have demonstrated Nigeria’s readiness to implement the agreement. For instance, NOTN Assistant Chief Trade Negotiator AfCFTA/ECOWAS, Ms. Demitta Gyang Chinwude, said a trade remedy mechanism for the rules-based safeguard of the Nigerian economy has been set up in the NOTN with trained specialists ready to counteract injurious trade practices against the Nigerian economy. This, The Nation learnt, became neccessary after members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), particularly the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), initially kicked against Nigeria signing the free rade deal. This was on grounds that it will open the floodgate for influx of foreign goods into the Nigerian market and turn the country into a dumping ground. Manufacturers had kicked their heels in, insisting, for instance, that the Rules of Origin (RoO) in the AfCFTA, which is used to determine the country of origin of a product for the purpose of international trade, cannot be adequately enforced to guard against the influx of goods into the Nigerian market. Specifically, MAN expressed fears that the RoO may not be adequately enforced because goods from the European Union (EU) may find their way into one of the African countries that have bilateral agreement with the EU. “When the goods get into the African country, they can repackage them, change the label from made in Europe to that of the African country. Those same goods will surely find their way to Nigeria, which is the main target market for the EU,” MAN argued. MAN further argued that AfCFTA’s market access was a concern to its members because it leaves low protection to locally produced goods. “The agreement says that 90 per cent of the tariff plan would be liberalised, leaving only 10 per cent to protect manufacturers. That 10 per cent is too low,” it insisted. Indication that MAN’s initial fears may have hit the right chord in the ears of the Nigerian authorities emerged last week when Adebayo reaffirmed government’s resolve that “We will not allow rogue traders to manipulate the RoO and disguise goods from outside the continent as made in Africa so as to qualify for duty-free passage.” The occasion was the National AfCFTA Forum, themed “Effective Implementation for Industrialisation and Inclusive Economic Development in Nigeria.” Co-organised by the Nigerian Government, it brought together the private sector in Nigeria to afford them the opportunity to learn how to best leverage the opportunities within the AfCFTA. The forum, which ran from December 5 to 6, 2019, in Lagos, was also a platform to actively engage with and consult intra-African actors across a diverse range of different sectors to better understand how the AfCFTA Agreement can shape more inclusive economic development in Nigeria. Other co-organisers included the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the EU, MAN, the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), in collaboration with the African Union Commission (AUC). The Forum was part of a comprehensive project, supported financially by the EU, aimed at deepening Africa’s trade integration through effective implementation of the AfCFTA. The ECA has also been working with its partners including the AUC, International Trade Centre (ITC), United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), and a selection of independent trade experts to ensure effective AfCFTA implementation strategies. In partnering to organise the Forum, the Senior Advisor with the African Trade Policy Centre at the ECA, Mr. Adeyinka Adeyemi, stated that the role of the private sector was critical in AfCFTA’s implementation. However, Nigeria, which stands to be the ultimate beneficiary of these international collaborations, has not folded its arms. The Federal Government, through the National Action Committee and the NOTN, has continued to demonstrate its determination to fully implement the terms of the AfCFTA. The Committee’s Chairman, Adebayo, at the Forum, said the president had always maintained that trade was very important to Nigeria and Africa. He, however, added that fairness was key to the success of multilateral agreements. His words: “Our vision for intra-African trade is that of free movement of made in Africa goods. That is goods and services made locally with significant African content in terms of raw materials and value addition. “Nigeria’s vision for the AfCFTA is, therefore, free and fair intra-Africa trade that creates economic growth, wealth for investors and businesses, jobs and prosperity for our citizens.” Adebayo explained that from studies done so far, Nigeria had established that the AfCFTA could facilitate economic growth and diversification, through preferential access to Africa’s market for manufactured goods and services. The minister, however, pointed out that this could only be realised through addition of new production capacity, retooling and up-scaling existing businesses and assisting sectors that would be negatively impacted to migrate to new areas. He also harped on the need to prioritise the resolution of bottlenecks that hinder Nigeria’s competitiveness in production and trade, including hard infrastructure such as power and logistics as well as soft infrastructure such as policies and regulations. The minister sure hit the bull’s eye with regards to hard infrastructure particularly power, which is said to be perhaps, the greatest obstacle to Nigeria’s competitiveness in continental and global trade. The Minister of State for Power, Mr. Goddy Jeddy-Agba, admitted this much when he said Nigeria’s economic growth was largely tied to constant power supply across the country. He cited a 2017 report that showed that Nigeria ranked as the second worst nation with unsteady power supply in the world. Jeddy-Agba spoke in Calabar, Cross River State, during a retreat for heads of agencies and parastatals under the ministry. He said the retreat was to address the existing operational gaps between the ministry and its agencies, and also to enhance good working relationship that would help in the implementation of government policies. Underscoring the need to get the hard infrastructure particularly power right, the Jeddy-Agba said: “I cannot over-emphasise the fact that the entire nation has its eyes glued firmly on the power sector. Ironically, the power sector can be likened to human eye. Once the eyes are closed, darkness takes over…” However, soft infrastructure such as policies and regulations is no less important in driving Nigeria’s effective implementation of AfCFTA beginning from July next year. This must have been why Adebayo said enforcement of trade rules without compromising efforts on trade facilitation and ease of doing business, was crucial to AfCFTA. According to him, the Federal Government was determined to fully implement the terms of the AfCFTA and uphold its commitments on trade and regional integration. “However, we will not allow smuggling and other predatory trade practices to continue unchecked, as it undermines our economic development efforts and destroys local industries, leading to job losses,” Adebayo assured.