Kano State Police Command said on Tuesday that it had arrested over 173 suspects and recovered 500 cows, N17.5 million and 570 tyres from suspected criminals. Parading the suspects for offences ranging from kidnapping to armed robbery, cattle rustling and human trafficking at the Bompai Police Command Headquarters, Commissioner Habu Ahmed Sani alleged that two of the suspects abducted an 11-year-old boy, Ali Mohammed, at Kwana Hudu Quarters, drugged and buried him alive at an uncompleted building in Wase village, Minjibir Local Government. He gave the names of the suspects as Aminu Suleiman, 29 and Abdulrashid Ishaq, 32, of Tundun Murtala Quarters, saying they were nabbed in Kaduna State. The police, in their efforts to rid Kano of criminals, arrested a notorious kidnapper/armed robber, Aliyu Mohammed, of Diga in Kumbotso Local Government Area of Kano State. The Nation gathered that a criminal, Alas Ali Kawara, who has been terrorising residents for about four years on the Falgore forest axis, was trailed and arrested. The police recovered two AK 47 rifles, 80 rounds of live ammunition, a pair of suspected Army camouflage uniform and two bullet proof jackets. Seven suspects, including a security guard, were apprehended for breaking into a warehouse at Sabon Gari Quarters where they stole tyres. During investigation, 570 of such tyres valued at N15 million were recovered from them. “One armed robbery suspect, Hassan Isiyaku, 27, of Doro village in Bindawa Local Government Area of Katsina State was arrested for possessing 10 drums of electric power transformer oil valued at N1.5 million. The suspect confessed to have participated in armed robberies at Kura town.” The police boss said three suspects that specialised in breaking vehicles’ boots, who trailed a man who was about to wed to a bank, were arrested when they broke the boot of the victim’s vehicle and stole N480, 000, which was later recovered from them. Following an operation by the police, 67 thugs (Yandaba) and phone thief suspects were nabbed after an intelligence-driven raid conducted before, during and after the just concluded Maukibi celebrations. The suspects have been charged to court. Sani said: “Seven notorious kidnapping/cattle rustling suspects, who were terrorising parts of Kano, Kaduna and Katsina states, were trailed with technical support and arrested. Items recovered from them include four AK 47 rifles, Dane guns, two pairs of Army camouflage uniform and 500 cows.” He said the suspects arrested in connection with the case of the Kano 10 children, who were kidnapped and rescued in Onitsha, Anambra State, have been arraigned. The commissioner said items recovered by the police during the operations included five vehicles, two motorcycles, 180 knives, 25 swords, 128 clubs and large quantity of dry leaves suspected to be Indian hemp.