Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu has warned police operatives, especially those detailed to man the highways during the Yuletide, to shun acts of misconduct and human rights abuses.
He urged his men to adhere strictly to laid-down rules and standard operating procedures of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). A statement in Abuja by Force spokesman Frank Mba, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), warned that any reported act of unprofessionalism, including extortion and intimidation of road users, would be investigated and decisively punished. In the statement, titled: Towards A Peaceful and Crime-Free Christmas: IGP Strengthens Security Nationwide, Adamu directed all Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and Commissioners of Police (CPs) to strengthen crime prevention strategies in their jurisdictions. “In line with efforts targeted at ensuring peaceful and hitch-free Christmas and New Year celebrations, the NPF has strengthened security across the country. “…IGP Adamu has directed the AIGs and CPs in charge of zonal and state commands nationwide to ensure that no stone is left unturned towards effectively implementing appropriate crime prevention strategies before, during and after the festivities.
“The IGP reiterates his call for effective deployment of human and material assets of the Force in protecting the major highways, recreational centres, motor parks, places of worship, financial institutions and government/private infrastructures, amongst others.” “In addition, the IGP directs that the supervisory officers must ensure that they are personally on the ground to monitor and supervise the officers and men under their watch for optimal performance.” “The IGP strongly warns police operatives, especially those detailed to man the highways, to desist from all forms of misconduct and abuse of the rights of the citizenry and to adhere strictly to laid-down rules and standard operating procedures of the Force. He further warns that any reported act bordering on unprofessionalism, including extortion and intimidation of road users, will be investigated and decisively punished. “Meanwhile, the IGP has expressed profound gratitude to Nigerians for their unwavering support to the Police and other security agencies throughout the year. He also, on behalf of the entire officers and men of the NPF, heartily felicitates with all Nigerians as they celebrate the Yuletide and New Year.”