The National Human Rights Commission has urged all Nigerians to stand up and fight for their rights without been scared of ‘the mighty in the society.’ The Executive Director of Centre for Human Rights Advocacy in Taraba State, Mohammed Bello Mustapha, advised the people not to be scared of even kidnappers. “We do not negotiate with kidnappers. We go after them,” he stated as the world marked the Human Rights Day yesterday. In Taraba state, no day is now complete without news of abduction of a person or group of persons. The Nation gathered that this year alone, over 847 persons have been abducted and taken into the bush and over N600million ransoms paid. Some victims were killed even after ransom was paid. Every December 10, the Human Rights Commission and other organisations, organise protests to alert people of circumstances where human rights are not recognised or respected. Mustapha said Human rights are our basic rights or freedom. They include our right to live, our right to health, education, freedom of speech and thoughts, and equal rights. He asked every person to stand up and fight for his rights. “Nobody is above the law, not even the mighty, and neither the government. But justice will not get to you, until you stand up and fight for it. So, do not be scared; come to us if your fundamental human rights have been abused. We shall fight for you,” he said. In Jalingo-the Taraba state capital, human rights advocates matched from Roadblock, through the Palace Road, to Afolayan Square. They used a town crier to educate people on their human rights that must be protected. The Taraba State Coordinator of Human Rights Commission, Yakubu Garf’au Usman, said this year’s theme for Human Rights Day is “Youth Standing Up for Human Rights.” He said the United Nations, through this theme, says they are celebrating the youth’s potential as “constructive agents of change.” “The youth are leaders of today, not tomorrow; they must be trained and educated by their parents,” Usman said. He disclosed that the commission in Taraba state has handling 57 cases in which the rights of citizens were violated. “Out of the 57, three are rape cases,” he said.