By Lucas Ajanaku  The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,  Dr. Isa Patanmi, has stressed the need for women to have access to digital technology to reach their full economic potential and create more self-reliant communities. Speaking at a stakeholders’ forum with: Connecting Women for Growth in the Digital Economy as theme in Lagos, he said previous efforts at women digital inclusion recorded mixed results. Represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr. M.F. Istifanus, Dr Pantami said digital technologies have become a powerful tool for socio-economic development, delivering substantial benefits for both individuals and society. He emphasised the need to address the digital gender gap to ensure that women are not being left behind in the revolution. at a stakeholders’ workshop on women connect strategic framework held in Lagos for women in Nigeria “Digital technology is revolutionising the world by providing access to information, finance and networks, all of which are necessary for women to reach their full economic potential and create more self-reliant communities. When women are economically empowered, they invest back into their families and communities, producing a multiplier effect that spurs growth and stability.  “To boost development in the ICT industry there is need to expand the demand base. Although women constitute about 50per cent of the Nigerian population  a considerable number is yet to key into the ICT economy. Many are unable to have access to products and services as well as literacy thereby creating opportunities for expansion of demand which will boost revenue for ICT industry operators and vendors and consequently for Government,” Dr Patanmi said. Also speakingt, Director, Planning, Research and Statistics of the Ministry, Dr. Nonye Nwachukwu, commended the minister for putting measures in place to enhance the significance of women in national development. She also challenged the women to move forward without any inhibition. “I believe this is a defining moment. With the workshop today, we are making a paradigm shift and opening a new chapter in the history of the Nigeria women and girl in era of digital economy. “This workshop is a step in this direction as it allows stakeholders to pull their resources together to achieve a common set of goals. It is, in fact, the unity of purpose and unity of action that matters most here as the proverb of our African elders wisely says: ‘if you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to  go far go together.’ “I am sure we want to go far together. But I also know that we want to go fast and indeed we need to go fast, for we have much catching up to do in Nigeria as it connects with the women and girls leveraging ICT,” Nwachukwu  said.