Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Rotimi Ajanaku spoke with OSEHEYE OKWUOFU in Ibadan, the state capital, on Yoruba unity, its future and place in national politics. HOw can Yoruba retain an enviable place in national politics? It is important that we prioritise Yoruba agenda over our personal ambition to make Oduduwa land great again. Our focus should be how to grow and develop economy of the southwest region, improve the standard of living of every citizen of Oduduwa nation. This region is the home of every first in Nigeria, even in Africa. Every sociocultural and civil society group should assume the responsibility of fostering peace among the inhabitants of Oduduwa land and lend great support to the masses, especially the underprivileged. This is what Yoruba Progressive Foundation (YPF) has been offering, granting interest-free loan to market women in yorubaland to ease them the burden associated with loans from Microfinance organizations. Even the capital will not be paid back to YPF’s account, but kept in the account of the Market Women Association for recycling. YPF is founded by Oduduwa children in USA with the aim of giving back to the society that made them. Can Yoruba speak with one voice? Let me tell you first, that the fate of this nation rests in the hands of Yorubas no matter the problems you mentioned . Should Yoruba calls for pulling out of Nigeria any day, there wouldn’t be country called Nigeria again, Yoruba is the ionic bond holding all tribes in Nigeria together. No wonder you find other tribes living successfully in Yorubaland without fear of molestation or attack. In all of the travels I have made, I also have not seen a nation so blessed with the kind of climate/weather we have in Yorubaland. In the world (not Nigeria), Yorubaland has the best weather/climate for agriculture, natural resources and for habitation of humans and all forms of animals, even bulldog that hardly survive in some part of Nigeria, survive in Yorubaland. Although, western scientists keep away some facts from us but practically our cocoa, maize, cassava, oil are the best, likewise other of our agriculture produces and livestock. We have the largest farms for catfish in Nigeria and Africa. Our soil is naturally nutritious than any other soil in the world. Our agriculture is based on organic system. So, i can tell the yoruba are not lacking behind , rather the yoruba hold the pace. What about the obvious disunity among their leaders? Yes, I agree with you to an extent, but It is normal to disagree on issues. That does not mean they cannot unite . Leaders of Yoruba states should come together to work out how they can help each state to maximize its areas of comparative advantage. Implement Land Use Act, control the influx of outsiders, who have turned Yorubaland to residential region. Perhaps, due to insecurity they constantly experienced in their region, they keep acquiring every available land to build estates, mansions and institution. The idea is to kill agriculture in Yorubaland. Should Yoruba put its house together, the race will become a threat for many nations in the world, considering the quality of its natural and human resources, agricultural prowess, rich culture. Yoruba is the ionic bond binding together all regions in Nigeria, keeping Nigeria together as a nation. Do not allow yourselves to be manipulated by dubious and selfish politicians. They use religion, tribalism and politics to perpetrate their evil agenda. How do you address the political leadership question in Yorubaland? Tinubu is an indispensable catalyst for the actualisation of Yoruba’s agenda in 2023 and beyond. As Asiwaju Odo Oodua (Oodua Youths Leader), it becomes imperative that I speak on issues affecting Oodua states and Oodua agenda ahead of 2023. Other issues include discussion on Tinubu’s and subsequent attacks on his person by some uninformed people and those planted by enemies to draw backward the progress and advancement of Southwest region. Or can anyone tell me the essence of teaming up against Tinubu when no one has actually established any of the baseless allegations raised by his accusers? Having cold-bloodedness against Tinubu, especially now when Yoruba ought to work together in realisation of its projection in 2023 is unwarranted and it is against the spirit of our ancestors. Let me ask you a question: should we allow few politicians to deprive Yorubas of our right just because of differences or rancour between them and Tinubu? How sure are we that it is not a case of envy, or rivalry, or jealousy. I am not against the idea of criticising Tinubu, but there is need to make whatever criticism they like to engage in to be constructive. We shouldn’t tolerate baseless and damaging criticism at this time. Tinubu is a Generallisimo and number one in the Southwest. So, a personality who is that relevant should be protected from political termites, looking for cheap means of gaining popularity and subsequently get their pocket loaded with dollars by their paymaster. Some of Tinubu’s accusers are not legitimate Oduduwas. Some are planted to destroy Oduduwa structure like the case of Afonja-Alimi rebellion in Ilorin, some are envious of his achievements and his political strength is a big threat to some. We have some people who are  bereft  of ideas. In the past few weeks, a spate of reckless and malicious falsehoods, defamatory and misleading statements have been peddled in the media against Asiwaju Tinubu by various cliques.  Tinubu  is a political philosopher. He knows what he wants, how to get it. He picks the best brain from every family or community in Yorubaland and beyond, put them on queue for grooming, use his machinery to get them to enviable positions in Nigeria. He believes it’s a cycle that must continue to go round, but unfortunately after assuming exalted positions, some of the so-called boys or political sons believed they have what it takes to tackle him to plant their successor. The idea is to break the circle and deprive some families that are on the queue right to benefit from the ‘cycle of progress.We must remain determined to subdue this challenge and secure the country more than ever before. While the protection of lives and properties is a primary responsibility of government, it is also incumbent on the citizens to share in this responsibility, as security is a collective responsibilityWe must remain determined to subdue this challenge and secure the country more than ever before. While the protection of lives and properties is a primary responsibility of government, it is also incumbent on the citizens to share in this responsibility, as security is a collective responsibility’. These are people who ordinarily couldn’t have won election to House of Assembly, not to talk of higher positions. They might be professionally competent but even in their chosen careers they were struggling for recognition before Tinubu picked them, besides, professional competency hasn’t any value in the dictate of the swinging of political pendulum. Some hate Tinubu for his political dominance and progression. This is arguable, based on the fact that most of the people helped so far by Tinubu are not his immediate family. Tinubu, in my own view, is lifting up Oduduwa sons and daughters, supporting them to occupy influential positions in Nigeria, believing it’s the appropriate way to develop Yorubaland and keep the economic power in the southwest. After all, the North already has political power. So, having economic power residing in the South should never be a crime. What lessons do you want Yoruba to learn from the past? Another group of people are criticizing Tinubu for his closeness to the president. They see Fulani/Hausa as their enemies, alleged them of constantly betraying yorubas. But, as a realist, I have a contrary view on the belief that Hausa/Fulani have for long been betraying Yoruba, rather I see Yoruba problem as a case of enemies within the Yorubas. Yoruba have always been used against their brothers from the onset, who failed Awolowo, our people betrayed Awolowo in his struggle to become the president of Nigeria. How about MKO Abiola? If Babangida could be bold enough to mention names of those that advised against his handling over to Abiola, we would be surprised that Yoruba will dominate the list. Babangida knew Abiola won the election. He wanted to hand over to him, but there were some cabals who had helped Babangida in the past and he must obey them by yielding to their demand. Who were these people? Yorubas. No wonder, he said, “my hands are tight.” In addition, the act of betraying Yoruba leaders in the past by  northerners was successfully carried out because the battle was lost right from home. Bi’ku ile o ba pa’ni t’ode o le pa’ni; eyinkule l’ota wa, inu ile l’aseni un gbe (it’s enemy within that aided enemy from outside). There could be some sensitive information manipulated by rivals within the Yorubas to discourage the northerners from trusting Yorubas. Same is going on now and must be arrested, if we are sincere about our yoruba agenda against 2023. 