Osagie Otabor, Benin  Sacked chairman of Etsako East local government, Alhaji Aremiyau Momoh, has said he would approach the court to challenge his removal from office. Alhaji Momoh was first suspended for two months following a petition by 10 councilors over alleged misappropriation of funds and low revenue profile. Among the allegations leveled against Momoh was that he claimed to have spent N7m on Sallah gift whereas only N2m was spent and he failed to remit N67m collected from trucks taking cement from BUA Cement. Other allegations raised by the councilors were that Alhaji Momoh spent N10m on empowerment, N36m for grading of roads, N8m for security during cult clashes and N16m for Christmas gifts. A contractor also complained that the suspended Chairman demanded kickback for a contract. The Edo State House of Assembly on Wednesday affirmed the removal of Momoh after receiving report of the investigation committee set up to investigate him. Momoh who was reacting to his removal by the Assembly told journalists in Benin City that the investigating panel set up by the governor erred and described the decision as vindictive and unreasonable. He said he was just being sacrificed for his resolve and patriotism to the All Progressives Congress. According to him, “I was never invited for questioning by the panel and how could they (the panel) just conclude an investigation with a mere petition without calling me for questioning. “My projects are there to speak for me. I am one of the most, if not the most performing LGA chairman in Edo State and Governor Godwin Obaseki had affirmed that in one of our meetings right in front of my colleagues in the state. “What I understand is that I am being victimized not playing along with the plan to change the political leadership status quo in the state. I have had a successful political career without blemishes and most of these opportunities were given to me by our national chairman. I won’t be cowed into doing things that negate my political principles. “I have met my legal team and they have advised me on what to do. I think that is the best I can say for now.”