Ekiti football is set to make history as all is set for the finals of the maiden Dr. John Kayode Fayemi U15 football competition for boys and girls in the state. The competition which is the first ever of its kind in the state and organized by Ekiti State Football Association, started in October with 16 male and eight female teams competing for honours at five different venues across the state. After gruelling, but exciting football matches in the groups and knockout stages of the competition that is enjoying the supports of Ekiti State government and its agencies, as well as, Zenith Bank Plc and Gossy Spring Water, all is set to determine the champions of youth football in the state. All the footballers and team officials in the competition have been receiving financial rewards based on their performances. The monies are paid directly into their accounts with Zenith Bank Plc. According to the EKSFA Chairman, Bayo Olanlege, the competition has lived up to the expectations of the organizers as it concerns breeding a generation of educated, talented and morally upright footballers that would go on to do the state and the country proud in future. “I must confess to you that we have been impressed by the level of tactical awareness and technical abilities displayed by our boys and girls, and particularly, their discipline, which I will say, is highly commendable. “We also commend and thank Governor, Dr. John Kayode Fayemi, for his supports and encouragement as well as the Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Prof. Adio Afolayan, the Ekiti State chapter of ALGON, all House of Representative members from Ekiti State, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Funminiyi Afuye and members of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Gossy Spring Waters, Zenith Bank Plc and most of all, the mother of Ekiti youths worldwide, Her Excellency, Erelu Bisi Fayemi Meanwhile, the finalists in the female category are FC Phoenix and Fatoba Queens FC. In the male category, it is expected that Ado LG and Gbonyin LG would put the fans on the edges of their seats, as they battle for honours on the day. 