By Vivian Chimezie  Peace advocates have met in Lagos to discuss the security challenges in the country under the auspices of Global Terriorism Index Launch 2019. The event, which was held at Manifold Place, was organised by The Institute for Economics and Peace. The event featured panel discussions on: The Causes of Violence and Terriorism in Nigeria. Delivering his speech, the convener who is also the President of Mind Reformers Network, Mr Chimezie Okechukwu, spoke on “Peace building and the essence of reducing the issue of war and terriorism in the country”. He made it clear that Nigerians do not have to rely on the government but in every little corner, peace must be the aim of all. He said: “In Nigeria and Africa, most of what we try to achieve is negative peace building which involves resolving of conflicts, mediating violence attacks and others. It is essential we start initiating the acts of positive peace building by having a well-structured and fair-justice system as well as a society that enhances the welfare of citizens instead of targeting insecurity alone.”  In conclusion, he enjoined social change makers in the country not to relent in their efforts but to be zealous  in ensuring that peace reigns all over the county. On his part, the Lagos  State  Coordinator of Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI), Julius Ilori, linked violence and juvenile deliquency to the home, observing that how the youth are brought up affect the person they become as they group. He urged parents, especially mothers, to pay attention to the upbringing of their children. He said: “Youths are very important in promoting the peace of this nation. Their role cannot be overemphasised. That is why a good number of YALI  network members are vibrant and passionate youths, who are eager to make a change in all sectors of the nation through social impacts. Our work is to train them using our curriculum”. Another advocate, who is a member of The Lagos State Youth Parliament, Shosanya Akinola, spoke on the importance of employing peace in conflict resolution, saying the aim of the parliament and their activities. “Our aim in the parliament is to change the mindset of youths in order to improve peace in the state, we also preach peace building and conflict resolution to youths.” 