Augustine Okezie, Katsina The Katsina State Government and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Saturday teamed up to clampdown on drug dealers and abusers in the state. The Secretary to the Government of Katsina State, Mustapha Muhammad Inuwa, who made the declaration while receiving the new Commander NDLEA, Katsina State, Mr Sule Mummodu in his office, said Masari’s administration has been supporting all the security agencies including the NDLEA in order to make Katsina State crime free. He further recalled that in 2015 Katsina was rated as leading gateway of illicit drugs and that the situation had been checkmated few months after Governor Aminu Bello Masari took over. He said ‘’because of the stringent measures taken by the Governor and the relentless efforts of the former NDLEA boss Hajia Maryam Gambo Sani, those drug dealers that were considered as untouchable had been arrested and are now serving various jail terms. ‘’That was the secretes behind the success of the current, administration in curtailing the menace of youths bandits popularly known as Kauraye in the state’’. The SGS further called on the new Commander to bring his vast experience to sustain the tempo. Earlier in his remarks, the new NDLEA boss said he was in the SGS office to formally announce his deployment from Anambra to take charge of the Katsina State Command. He solicited for the State Government’s intervention to enable him tackle the challenges he met on ground In another development, youths in Katsina State have been charged to explore the lots of opportunities now made available for them to obtain higher education. The Secretary to the Government of State, Mustapha Muhammad Inuwa who gave charge when the Local Organizing Committee of the Daura Senatorial 2019 PMB Soccer Cup for Change presented to him the PMB and Gov Masari cups for this year’s football fiesta in his office.
He urged the LOC members as well as the youth leaders especially in Daura zone to enlighten the youths both males and females to make better use of the tertiary institutions now available in the zone to build their future endeavor. He said “besides promoting the sporting activities, the leaders also have the responsibility of shaping the future career of our teeming youths.” The SGS further pointed out that in the past a youth from Katsina had to travel to other States as far as Ibadan, Lagos, Enugu or even Sokoto or nearby Kano for a university education but today in Daura alone one could get any post secondary certificate he wants’’.