Our Reporter The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reaffirmed his support for the new Vice-Chancellor of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Prof. Lilian Imuetiyan Salami, assuring that the construction and rehabilitation of roads in Ugbowo area of Benin City will commence soon. At a reception in honour of the newly appointed Vice-Chancellor in Benin City, Obaseki said the construction will ease movement of students and staff of the university. The governor had last week disclosed that the state government was set to commence the construction and rehabilitation of 16 Kilometres of roads within the Ugbowo area, which houses the institution. Describing her appointment as well deserved, Obaseki said, “Edo people are really proud and happy to have produced the second female vice chancellor; not only that, we are glad that we have produced a very competent, well-bred, distinguished personality. She has all the positive attributes needed to succeed. Hence, we can’t accept less from her. “God giving me another term, we will have 5 years to work together. I assure you of my relentless support as we strive to grow and revamp our state’s education sector.” The governor continued, “I want to congratulate you and your family on this great feat. You will definitely not have any problem with the Government of Edo State. Whatever you require within the confines of the law to make your work easier, we will support you.” “I have approved the construction of roads within the university; I assure you that construction works will start soon, especially in all areas around Ekosodin. Also, for every other thing you requested, we will put machinery in place to attend to them”, he added. Earlier in his opening remarks, the chairman of the occasion, the Esama of Benin, Chief Dr. Gabriel Igbinedion, thanked the governor for making out time to honour the new vice chancellor despite his busy schedule. According to him, “The governor over the years has shown he is a great man and we are glad to have him around here today. May God continue to bless him; no obstacle will block his way.” Prof. Salami in her vote of thanks promised to regain the lost glory of the university. She said, “I assure you all here today that my tenure as the VC will bring back the lost glory of the University of Benin, the actual higher institution that we all desire. You will be proud that you invested in me as the vice chancellor.”