By Munirat Saliman  About 138 new doctors and dentists were inducted by the College of Medicine, University of Lagos (CMUL) at a colourful ceremony on Monday. The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) Register, Dr. T.A.B Saunsi, led the graduates in the oath taking during the induction for the 2018 session held at the New Great Hall of the college. Some students were recognised for their outstanding performances – the most outstanding of whom was  Aladenika Temitope, who won the $1,000 Schubbs Prize and six others out of eight awards. He was also the overall best in the Faculty of Dental Sciences, best graduating student in Dentistry, best student in Restorative Dentistry, best graduating student in BDS, best final year student in Preventive Dentistry, best final year student in Child Dental Health and the best student in Faculty of Dental Sciences. Others were Amira Omolola Ibukunoluwa (who won three awards as the best student in Obstetrics and Gynaecology); Adeniran Oluwademilade Gbemisola (best student in Surgery; best graduating student in Psychiatry and best MBBS student in Orthopaedic Surgery); Okuniyi Monsuru (winner, best all-round performance in the Faculty of Clinical Sciences; and best student in Faculty of Clinical Sciences), among others.  Speaking at the event, the Chief Medical Director (CMD), Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Prof. Chris Bode urged the graduates to remember the college in all decisions they take and come back to make Nigeria great if they leave the shores of the country. He also announced that more than 50 per cent of the graduands will do their house job in LUTH. “More than 50 per cent than of you will serve the house job in LUTH.  We have already selected you and you are starting next week,” he said. The Vice Chancellor Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, represented by Deputy Vice Chancellor Prof. Folasade Ogunsola, congratulated the graduands, saying: “We can beat our chest at the University of Lagos  because our products are excellent.” He added: “A lot of people come to this country with bad intention, we have problems but you are going to be part of the people that will solve that problem and that is our charge to you, because so much has been invested in you”, she said.