Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  The Flag Officer Commanding (FOC), Central Naval Command (CNC), Rear Admiral Suleiman Garba, has advised persons lacking patriotism and loyalty to the country to stay away from the military. Garba spoke at the CNC headquarters in Yenagoa while decorating the Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship Delta, Commodore Ibrahim Dewu, with his new rank of a Rear Admiral. He said the military career was extremely challenging with unforgiving demands of humanity, integrity, intelligence, patriotism and unalloyed loyalty to the nation. Garba described the occasion as an important milestone in the career development of Dewu, saying that to beneficiary scaled through a painstaking screening process. He said: “Additionally, the promotion of the senior officer was premised on his past excellent performance and the resolve of the service to constantly reward excellence. “The increase complex and challenging security environment require the Nigerian Navy to put forward its very best at all times. This promotion comes with greater expectations and responsibility. “The military career is extremely challenging with unforgiving demands of humanity, integrity, intelligence, patriotism and unalloyed loyalty to the nation. A career officer must have these qualities to qualify for elevation and consideration”. On his part, Dewu, commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Defence Staff and the Chief of Naval Staff for finding him worthy to wear the rank. He said: “I’m indebted to the Chief of the Naval staff for trusting me with this opportunity and look forward to being able to share my knowledge and experience with others in an official capacity. “I consider myself privileged to serve under an amiable Flag Officer Commanding central Naval command whose unique work ethic and leadership style have been an inspiring example. I look forward to contributing my qouta and adding more value to the success of the Nigerian Navy high command in moving the service forward”. Dewu, whose operations in Delta are crucial to the ongoing war against oil theft, said his working relationship with the Commander, Operations Delta Safe, assisted his career progress. He promised to utilize all the advice he received from senior officers, who attended the occasion to advance his leadership qualities and growth. “I also hope to mentor subordinates under my tutelage because as they say, investing in people is time well spent, just as you have all proven over the years. For the younger ones I urge you to remain steadfast and sustain a culture of accountability and excellency to progress in all your career”, he said. Speaking at the sideline of the event, Dewu added: “I’m highly indebted to the chief of Naval staff for finding me worthy of this honor. This promotion is for a higher responsibility. They say more promotion, more responsibility and more challenges. “I keep praying to God and all my superiors to continue to support me and advise me so that I will be able to face the new challenge, I’m ready and I’m willing and I’m capable having been in Delta carrying out this responsibility”.