Sanni Onogu, Abuja  Chairman Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, on Wednesday denied reports about likely cracks in the Senate thereby warranting a move to pass a vote of confidence in the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan. The Senate had on Wednesday withdrew a motion sponsored by Senator Kassim Shettima and co-sponsored by 36 other Senators aimed at passing a vote of confidence in the leadership of the ninth National Assembly particularly the Senate President. The co-sponsors of the motion included 25 All Progressives Congress (APC) Senators and 11 of their counterparts from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The abrupt withdrawal of the motion and its subsequent deferment to another legislative day had fueled speculation that all is not well with the Senate under the leadership of Lawan. Answering questions from reporters in Abuja on Wednesday, Senator Akwashiki dispelled insinuations about any form of discontentment in the Senate about the leadership of the upper chamber. He said that “Our loyalty to the leadership is total and complete.” Akwashiki said: “There is nothing to worry about in the vote of confidence in the leadership of the Senate which was stood down on Wednesday during plenary. “It is a vote of confidence and not a vote of no confidence. A vote of confidence is moved when members of a group are in support or in total agreement with the leadership. “I see no big deal in the motion being stood down. I want us to exercise patience and wait for the day that the motion would be mentioned on the floor of the Senate. “I won’t speak further on it because it is a vote of confidence. I would speak more if it was a vote of no confidence and the Senate President decided to use his power as Presiding Officer to stand down the motion. “Those who are moving the vote of confidence are in total support of the leadership, so it is not a serious issue. “On the 36 Senators comprising 25 APC and 11 PDP members listed as co-sponsors of the motion is a normal thing. “All of us are in total agreement of the motion but we cannot all have our names in the motion. “If all of us should put our names on the list, then it’s no longer a motion. Now that the motion has been brought before the Senate, every Senator would have the opportunity to speak on it. The number of sponsors does not matter. “The vote of confidence motion has nothing to do with any crisis in the Senate. There is no crisis. Our loyalty to the leadership is total and complete. It is even possible for two Senators to move motion on vote of confidence,” Akwashiki said.