Two former Nigerian leaders – General Yakubu Gowon and Chief Olusegun Obasanjo – were among eminent citizens who showered encomiums on the wife of the late military administrator of defunct South Eastern State, Mrs. Helen Esuene. Others included two ex-Senate Presidents Bukola Saraki and Senator David Mark, as well as a former Information Minister, Professor Jerry Gana and former Akwa Ibom State Governor Obong Victor Attah. They gathered at the Ibom Hotel and Golf Resort, Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, to celebrate the former Minister of Environment and one-time senator for Akwa Ibom South (Eket) on her 70 birthday celebration. Gowon, who was the special guest of honour, described Mrs Esuene as a virtuous and humble woman who supported her husband, the late Brig.-Gen. Udoakaha Jacob Esuene, to bring unity and stability to Nigeria. The former Head of State said the celebrant has lived an exemplary and sacrificial life, adding that she was among the wives of military governors who were role models to others. Felicitating with her on her 70th birthday, Gowon said Mrs Esuene was known for various acts of charity. He said she expressed these through her scholarship awards and financial assistance to fellow women and the needy in the society. “I wish to very specially recognise the celebrant. She was one of the youngest wives of military governors during my administration as military Head of State who spoke for the interest of the nation. “Helen carried herself with so much dignity and exemplary manner such that I can say that she has contributed a lot to this country. “She and her husband left office with so much honour and without any blemish. She is a good mother. She has been praying for Nigeria and has contributed her quota to her state and country,” Gowon said. Obasanjo, who was represented by his wife, Bola, described Mrs Esuene as a good wife who supported the former President during his tenure. “She is not just a good wife and a woman but a role model to other women in the country,” Mrs Obasanjo said. Saraki, who was the chairman of the occasion, said the large turnout of eminent Nigerians at the birthday celebration was an eloquent testimony to her role and contributions to the Nigerian project. “She carried herself with respect. She is a reservoir of intelligence and provided wise counsel to other senators at the Sixth National Assembly,” he said. Mark said the celebrant provided quality representation to the people of Akwa Ibom South during her time in the National Assembly. Governor Emmanuel said residents of the state were glad for the show of love exhibited by fellow Nigerians to Mrs. Esuene. The governor stressed that the celebrant lives a life of service, sacrifice and commitment to the good and well-being of the people. Mrs Esuene thanked all for making her birthday memorable. She urged Nigerians to work for the unity of the country. “I have worked hard all the days of my life.  Hard work doesn’t kill anybody. I have always put in my best into any position I find myself. And I advise that we shouldn’t allow politics or political office to divide us because those things are temporary,” she said. The highlight of the occasion was the unveiling of a biography, titled: Helen Esuene, An Icon of Destiny, written in her honour. 