Welcome to another exciting week! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. Today, we shall focus on: Exploring the Wonders of Godliness! According to the scriptures, we can only become what we believe. As it is written, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name (John 1:12). It is important to know that whatever God says is established in heaven to be manifested on the earth. If He says Be ye holy for I am holy. That means He has made available the provisions for our empowerment to live a holy life.  So we must believe that we can become holy because holiness is attainable by faith.  Godliness is a value-adding virtue. It impacts positively on every area of our lives. Everything that works in the Kingdom has godliness at its root (Acts 20:32). It takes sanctification to access our inheritance. By the act of resurrection, sin has no more dominion over us. We, therefore, have the legal right to stand against sin (Romans 6:14; Colossians 2:15). Also, it is important we recognise that sin is a mystery and its ultimate goal is to distract us from God’s way, so we can miss the best of life (2 Thessalonians 2:7). However, godliness is a greater mystery (1Timothy 3:16). By inference, the greater mystery of godliness will always swallow up the mystery of iniquity. So we need an understanding of the mystery of godliness to dominate the forces responsible for sin and unrighteousness. Nature of Sin The demonic spirits of sin include the following: What Do We Do To Break The Demonic Hold Of Sin? Benefit of Godliness In summary, godliness may be costly, but the end result is priceless. It cost Joseph years in prison, but he ended in the palace. Thus, godliness is the foundation of every giant in the Kingdom. The race may be slow, but it is sure to end in victory. However, you must be born again. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You, Jesus, for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Walking in the Newness of Life, Conquering Controlling Powers and The Blood Triumph. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m. and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org, Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.