 PEACE is not yet in sight in the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) as the crisis rocking the federation took another dimension on Tuesday with two parallel congresses holding in Abuja and Anambra. From the Abuja Congress held at the MKO Abiola Stadium on Tuesday, the seven-man that constituted the congress suspended the elected AFN President Ibrahim Gusau after several allegations bordering on gross misconduct, abuse of power and mismanagement of funds were levelled against him. Those present at the Abuja congress include George, Gabriel Okon, DIG Sani Mohammed (Rtd), Rosa Collins, Brown Ebewele, Himal Charles,  Tafida Gadzama while Maria Wolphill and Prof. Ojeme sent their apologies for being absent. Among the sins of Gusau listed in the communiqué issued at the end of the Abuja congress include flagrant violation of the constitution. Reading the communiqué on behalf of the board, Acting President Olamide George who read the communiqué,   said the former President called an annual congress of the AFN in utter disregard of the provisions of the constitution section 6 1 4 which stipulates a 50-day notice must be given before an annual congress of the Federation can be convened.” However, in a swift reaction to his suspension, Gusau insisted that he remains the president of the federation, describing as the Abuja Congress  illegal and allegations against him null and void. “I think all the allegations against me were null and void because the mid-term congress would have been held in August, but we all agreed that we will hold it later in the year after the World Championships in Doha. So I cannot just wake up and call a congress when I am conversant with what was stipulated in the constitution,” he said. On the directive of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to recall  the Technical Director, Sunday Adeleye  during the World Championship in Doha, Gusau said: “I cannot unilaterally remove the technical director without the board and this is what I told them that this will be decided at the Congress. “ What they are doing in Abuja is null and void as the delegates from the 36 states are all here for the congress holding tomorrow (today) while the board meeting would be held later today (yesterday).”