The Supreme Head, Cherubim & Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria, His Most Eminence, Dr. Prophet Solomon Adegboyega Alao and a 92-year old Professor of Church History from Scotland, Andrew Walls have been  honoured by the University of Ibadan (UI). They were inducted as Distinguished Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Church History and Missiology (NACHAM), which is an integral part of the Department of Religious Studies, Faculty of Arts, of the university. The Vice Chancellor of the 71-year old university, Prof Abel Idowu Olayinka, emphasised the importance of religion in nation building and urged the church to continuing praying for the country. Prof Olayinka who was represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics) Prof Adebola Ekanola urged the religious leaders to pray for the university. Other religious leaders honoured include, the National Vice President, The Apostolic Church Nigeria, Pastor (Dr) Emmanuel Segun Awojide, President Christ Apostolic Church, Pastor (Dr) Abraham Olukunle Akinosun, and Primate Church of the Lord (Aladura) Most Revd Okikiola Oshitelu (PhD). The Head of Department, Religious Studies and National President of the Academy, Prof Samson Adetunji Fatokun said, “”The honorees are, “indeed men of ‘timber and caliber’ who have significantly contributed through their respective church denominations to the advancement of Nigerian indigenous Christianity both in African countries and overseas, as evident in their numerous branches outside Nigeria with striking Nigeria indigenous identities.” He said that all researches conducted so far extolled St Moses Orimolade Tunolase as a true prophet of God and admonished some churches using candles for what Baba Tunolase never used it for. He said he was particularly happy that Alao was toeing the path of Orimolade, the reason why the university gave him the honour and will constantly call on him and other awardees to contribute to religious studies in the Ivory Tower. Alao, who expressed his appreciation for the award and said he was particularly happy that the first university in Nigeria held St Moses Orimolade in high esteem and recognised the good works he did for salvation and spiritual deliverance of many people. He urged religious leaders to join hands with President Muhammadu Buhari in his quest to fight corruption and make the country better. He assured the University of Ibadan of his cooperation and that of the Cherubim & Seraphim Unification Church of Nigeria in any research work on the C & S as the first Pentecostal church in this part of the world with over 750,000 branches worldwide.    