 THE Comptroller-General, Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) Col. Hameed Ali, at the weekend sought a separate funding source for the Nigeria Command and Staff College, Gwagwalada, Abuja. Represented by Deputy Comptroller General, Aminu Dangaladima at the graduation ceremony of junior course five of the college, he revealed that the college is still being funded from the NCS budget that is even inadequate. According to the Customs boss, similar institutes in the nation’s military establishments, have their separate direct funding sources for their colleges and administrative staff. Ali however, noted that the NCS effort at running the college and appreciating hard working staff and students will continue to depend on the present available funding within the provision of the law. The Comptroller General said that it is for the purpose of effective incentive package and other issues that the management of is seeking a separate funding source for the college. Stressing the need for a separate funding source for the college, the Customs boss said that “We will depend on the support of the NCS board to working towards initiating appropriate legislative process to achieve this desired issue.” The allowances that are available in the college for the staff, according to him, range from responsibility allowance, teaching allowance, research allowance and book allowance are to be paid to the directing staff. Speaking at the ceremony, the College Commandant, Deputy Comptroller General, Elijah David Chikan noted that the NCS belief in capacity building will never be in vain. He said that the initiative will continue to yield the expected results. He was thankful to the CG and the military for contributing to the success of the training. Of the 47 grandaunts of this year’s, seven received different categories of awards. They are as follows: Deputy Superintendent of Customs B. l. Adigun, best in shooting range; DS M. Suleman best in service paper; D.SC. I.M. Bala, best in general study term; DSC A.C. Fanyam; third overall best DSC A. Lauwalu; second overall best DSC A.C. Fanyam; and first overall best DSC I.M. Bala.