 The President of Christ Apostolic Church,(CAC) Worldwide, Pastor Abraham Akinosun has urged the National Assembly to drop the hate bill currently before it. Instead of proceeding with the bill, he said the lawmakers should strengthen the existing laws guiding public utterances. Akinosun maintained that the Federal Government and the National Assembly should utilise the existing laws of defamation and libel to deal with those involved in hate speech. According to him, capital punishment of death sentence was too harsh as penalty for such offence. Akinosun stated these during a chat with reporters at Joseph Ayo Babalola International Miracle Centre, Ikeji-Arakeji after the ordination of over 2000 new pastors of the church. He stressed that the current administration needed prayers to surmount all the challenges facing the country. According to the cleric, the federal government was not totally against freedom of speech, emphasising that no individual has been arrested for hate speech so far. He however cautioned Nigerians on the need to be obedient and law- abiding for the nation to move on. Akinosun also called on leaders to make policies that would be beneficial to the citizenry. The CAC President called for the release of Sowore from the custody of the Department of State Service (DSS) He said: “Sowore should be released since a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered his release.” The church leader at the same time, warned Nigerians against actions capable of truncating the nation’s democracy. His words: “There is a limit to freedom in any democracy. We should not abuse the democracy we are enjoying in Nigeria.” Akinosun emphasised that no responsible government will open its eyes and allow any individual or group of people to contravene the law of the land and truncate the duly constituted government. He urged Nigerians to learn how to be obedient and respect the rule of law while the government should also respect the rule of law and avail the citizenry the fundamental freedom of expression.