The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has congratulated the newly elected chairmen and councillors of the 16 local government councils, following official announcement of Saturday’s council election results by the State Independent Electoral Commission. Governor Fayemi also commiserated with the family of Dotun Kosedake, who was killed in the fracas that took place in Ikere-Ekiti and called on police authorities in the state to get to the roots of what actually transpired with a view to bringing the culprits to book. The Governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, however, expressed satisfaction at the conduct of the election. He lauded the professionalism of the SIEC officials under the leadership of Justice Jide Aladejana, saying that the hitch-free nature of the election was a reflection of their professional conduct. Governor Fayemi said he was particularly impressed the election held under a peaceful atmosphere as voters and SIEC officials conducted themselves in orderly manners. While congratulating the newly elected council chiefs, the Governor urged them to see their election as a call to serve, adding that they cannot afford to disappoint those who voted for them. He reminded them of his administration’s zero tolerance for corruption and mediocrity, adding that it is no longer business as usual in the councils. The Governor said : “I congratulate the good people of Ekiti State, for demonstrating their peaceful nature and love for democracy during Saturday’s council poll. The professionalism of SIEC under the leadership of Justice Jide Aladejana is also commendable. “I also congratulate and welcome on board all our newly elected chairmen and councillors. I urge them to see their election as a call to serve and should do their best not to disappoint the people that voted for them. “They should be guided by the fact that our administration has zero tolerance for corruption , and it is certainly not going to be business as usual in our councils this time around. “While the election was largely peaceful, the incident in Ikere was a sour point. We commiserate with the family of the deceased, even as I have directed the police in the state to investigate what actually transpired and bring the perpetrators to book”, the statement added.