In today’s business landscape, an enterprise IT mandate is characterized by rapidly increasing pressure to deliver the network speeds, technology, and expertise to increase employee productivity, support diverse devices, and provide exceptional customer experiences. One of the strategic ways to make this vision a reality for enterprises is to deploy network technologies as an enabler. However, the existing enterprise-wide area network (WAN) is found inadequate to support the ever-expanding demands for data, applications, and bandwidth. In order to deliver these experiences at scale, IT departments are looking to build adaptive networks using tools such as software-defined WAN (SD-WAN) solutions. Delivery of Expected Networking Experience and Legacy Technology: There was a time not so long ago where it was possible to meet the immediate enterprise needs using purpose-built wide area networks that were inflexible. Today, top-level enterprises are operating in an environment with an enormous amount of data from multiple sources. Naturally, this has shortened the duration for processing, analyzing, and acting on this information. One of the ways to address this changing business demand is to evolve the individual, static networks to integrated, dynamic platforms. Static WANs can be transformed into programmable platforms using software-defined solutions. This simplifies the process of analyzing, prioritizing and delivering workloads for the team members over secure networks that are scalable, flexible, and capable of adapting promptly to shifting operational priorities. For example, SD-WAN creates an overlay network to eliminate the need to manage multiple access providers. This network is decoupled from the WAN, hardware, and links. The teams can make use of all WAN connections and choose the best available path dynamically by managing traffic at the application layer. By using adaptive networking solutions, procurement of bandwidth and related network functions is possible for the enterprises, in an on-demand manner. It is also possible to ensure faster response by centrally defining, configuring and managing network policy administration. Today’s Enterprise and Adaptive Network: Transitioning into SDN powered solutions allows IT leaders to turn technology into a significant competitive advantage by reducing networking complexity. Mentioned below are some of the top factors influencing the IT decision-makers to focus on building adaptive networks. 