Damisi Ojo, Akure  The founder of Sotitobire Miracle Centre, Oshinle Quarters in Akure, the state capital, Prophet Alfa Babatunde was on Monday remanded at the olokuta correctional centre over two- count of conspiracy to kidnap and aiding kidnapping. The cleric was arraigned before Magistrate Charity Adeyanju, sitting at Oke-Eda, Akure alongside six persons who were said to have committed the offence on November 10 at about 11:45 am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state. The charge sheet reads, “That you Prophet Alfa Babatunde, Omodara Olayinka, Margret Oyebola, Grace Ogunjobi, Egunjobi Motunrayo, Esther Kayode, Peter Anjorin, and others now at large on the 10th November 2019 at about 11:45 am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No 48, Solagbade street Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state did conspire together to commit felony to wit, kidnapping and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 516 of criminal code cap 37 vol 1 laws of Ondo state. “That you Prophet Alfa Babatunde, Omodara Olayinka, Margret Oyebola, Grace Ogunjobi, Egunjobi Motunrayo, Esther Kayode, Peter Anjorin, and others now at large on the 10th November 2019 at about 11:45 am at Sotitobire Praising Chapel, No 48, Solagbade street Oshinle quarters Akure, Ondo state did aid the kidnap of one Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole aged 13 months and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 5(i) of the Ondo state anti-kidnapping and anti-abduction law, 2010. “That you Peter Anjorin on the 10th November, 2019 at about 2pm at premises of the Department of State Services, Alagbaka, Akure did destroy evidence by secretly taken away the vital evidence that would have aid speedy investigation in respect of the missing child (Gold Eninlaloluwa Kolawole) and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 123 of criminal code cap 37 vol I laws of Ondo state 2006”. The prosecuting counsel, Joshua Dada who prayed the court to remand the accused person in prison custody for further investigation emphasised that if he was given bail, it would jeopardize their investigation. Counsel to the accused person, Olusola Oke who spoke with reporters after the court proceeding said, “There was an arraignment of Alfa Babatunde with some members of the Church before the magistrate on the allegation in respect of a missing child. “But it is important for us to bring this to the knowledge of the general public contrary to insinuation and an allegation that they have shaved his beard and his hair. ” It is obvious today that such did not happen. The prosecution presented two contradictory positions and in the first instance, there was an application filed on Friday where they alleged that the cleric, Babatunde confessed to the allegation of kidnapping. But quite surprising today, we challenged them to present the evidence of his confessional statement but they did not bring something like that to court. “They were charged with conspiracy, and aiding kidnapping these are two different situations because if he actually kidnapped, it would actually be brought to the public that he kidnapped but apparently they have nothing against him. For us as lawyers, we believe that if the man indeed culpable we believe very strongly in the rule of law that he should be punished. But at the same time, there is no need for us to crucify somebody against any that he didn’t commit. “As at now there is no evidence levelled against him, that led to the burning the Church last week and there was nobody exhumed in the Church, no evidence was established from the alter. For us as lawyer we are not interested offering undue confer canopy of our clients, but we are interested in truth and justice. And justice means, innocent should not be punished but someone who is culpable should be punished. “But at the end of the proceeding, magistrate ruled that she does not have the jurisdiction to try the alleged offences and ordered him to be remanded in prison custody pending the conclusion of investigation “