The government of Abia State has officially announced the passing away  of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB),  Nnamdi Kanu, HRM Eze Sir Israel O. Kanu, the Egwu Ukwu II of Afaraukwu Ibeku, Umuahia North LGA. The Nation had reported that Eze Kanu’s father died about a month after his son announced the death of his mother, Lolo Ugoeze Sally Meme in Germany after a long battle with undisclosed illness. A statement  signed by the state’s  Information Commissioner, John Okiyi, described the death of Eze Kanu as a rude shock, adding that the unwavering love and sterling contributions of the late monarch who died at the age of 86 to the development of his community including the lasting legacy and indelible impression would be missed. “It was with rude shock that we learnt of the passing on of one of our great royal fathers, HRM Eze Sir I.O. Kanu, the Egwu Ukwu II of Afaraukwu Ibeku, at the age of 86 years. “His unwavering love and sterling contributions to the development of his community in particular, and Abia State in general, are well documented. No doubt, HRM left a lasting legacy and an indelible impression on the minds of Ndigbo everywhere in the world. “Death is not the end of man but a necessary passage to a better place in eternity where there is no strife, sorrow or pain. Indeed, Papa has only gone to that better place, and in his usual manner while on earth here, he is praying for all of us from above, especially for the peace, unity and progress of not just his community but also of our state and Alaigbo. “This should be our consolation so that his beloved family and community he left behind do not continue to weep since we all know that he is resting peacefully now. “As a government, we assure the family of late Eze Sir I.O. Kanu and Afaraukwu community of our continued support in all ways we can to help ameliorate the pains of his departure. Lastly, we pray that God in His infinite mercies grants the soul of our late Eze eternal rest. Amen!” Though the family is yet to make public any arrangement for the burial of Kanu’s parents, there are still doubts over the availability of Kanu for the burial as security agencies are said to be on the watch to know when he will return to his family’s compound. Members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has also commiserated with its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu over the death of his father, Eze Sir Israel Okwu Kanu the Egwu Ukwu II of Afaraukwu. The IPOB leader had earlier lost his mother, Ugoeze Sally Nmeme Okwu Kanu who is yet to be buried. In a statement by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group said the death of both parents of its leader would not weaken the members’ resolve towards the restoration of Biafra. The statement read in part:  “We the global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu,  wish to console the family our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the entire Kanu family and the community of Afaraukwu over the passing  of their father, uncle, brother and traditional ruler, His Royal Majesty Eze Sir Israel Okwu Kanu the Egwu Ukwu II of Afaraukwu, who joined his ancestors as a result of health complications arising from the trauma of the invasion of his palace by Nigerian soldiers on September 14, 2017 and most recently over the  shock of the sudden death of his wife, Ugoeze Sally Nmeme Okwu Kanu. “We are left in no doubt the military attack on Isiama Afaraukwu and the Kanu family by the armed forces of the Federal Government of Nigeria is the principal cause of the death of our leader’s parents. “We confidently state, without fear of contradiction, that our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has also sacrificed his parents in pursuit of freedom for the people of Biafra. There is no greater act of devotion to a noble cause than this. “Rather than weaken or diminish our resolve to restore Biafra, the passing of our leader’s parents will infuse us with a greater sense of determination because only by accomplishing the liberation of Biafra will we truly mourn them. “We are asking Almighty God Chukwu Okike Abiama to grant the family, friends, lovers of freedom, Afaraukwu Eze-in-Council and entire community the fortitude to bear the great loss and vacuum the passing of His Majesty has created in our midst.”