Osagie Otabor, Bénin  A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, has said that the few individuals that defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) with Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu were promised various positions and in some cases the Deputy Governorship slot. Chief Dokpesi said Pastor Ize-Iyamu gave the promises even when he was yet to defect to the APC. Dokpesi who spoke Tuesday in Agenebode, headquarters of Estako East local government while addressing PDP faithful in the locality denied rumours that he was leaving the PDP. He told the PDP supporters that those that defected to the APC did so for selfish reasons. Dokpesi stated that there was nothing that will impress or attract him to the ruling APC. According to him, “There have been a number of alleged defections from our party. People who are said to have gone with Pastor Ize-Iyamu. “It became clear that individuals left for their personal reasons. Majority of the people are still with the PDP.” On his alleged defection to the APC, Chief Dokpesi said, “It is most unfortunate. I came down to reassure the people that there was no iota of truth that I have left and abandon the PDP. I am still fully in the PDP. There is nothing that impresses or attract me to the ruling APC. I don’t think that membership of a party is based on what I want but on certain well-grounded principles and views about how society should be governed, how society should be managed and how to bring about development and progress to the people generally. I have not seen those values in the APC. I have no cause to go the APC for now. “Ize-Iyamu was the candidate in 2016. There are other younger more brilliant more vibrant people in the PDP. The 2012 candidate left. The candidate for 2098 left the PDP. We will have other candidates in 2020. The leaders of the PDP will look for the best candidate who will serve the interest of the people and not of the masters. Ize-Iyamu’s departure will not affect the fortunes of the PDP.”