By Okorie Uguru Southern Sun Hotel, Ikoyi, Lagos recently marked its ten years of operation in Nigeria. As part of the events marking the celebration, the hotel hosted its customers and business partners to a cocktail. Speaking at the party, the General Manager of the hotel, Mr. Mark Loxley for  their unwavering commitment, especially   key stakeholders who have consistently supported the journey of the Southern Sun Ikoyi brand over the past 10 years. “We will also use this medium to appreciate the support of the management team members and stakeholders, whose fantastic support has allowed the hotel to be positioned as a prominent member within the hotel community in Lagos and has also allowed us as a business to take pride and position as a true 4-star internationally branded hotel within the Nigerian Industry.” Mark added. Mark Loxley also noted that the concerted efforts in the ongoing staff trainings and development have always been core within Southern Sun Ikoyi’s mandate in ensuring that the human capital within the hotel is maximized to the fullest extent, which has further allowed for a great and consistent service culture to be extended to all the hotel’s guests. He used the medium to share updates on the recent renovations embarked by the Hotel across its rooms in upgrading its fittings, rugs and other resources which were all sourced by local vendors in promoting local trade patronage and ensuring that guests have a memorable experience at the hotel. Also speaking at the occasion, Director, Southern Sun Ikoyi, Ernest Orji, recalled the unique opportunity afforded him in playing a role in reviving the then decrepit Ikoyi Hotel and the transformation into the new Southern Sun Ikoyi, forged by the strategic partnership with the Tsogo Sun Hotels. Ernest Orji used the medium to appreciate the highly esteemed customers of the hotel, who through their patronage have and positive reviews have ensured that hotel has remained a choice destination and most especially, the fantastic staff and their work ethic, which has consistently kept the hotel as the best performing hotel in Lagos. The dignitaries at the event which included the Consul General of the South African Consulate General, Darkey Ephraim Africa, Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Honorable Lateef Abiru, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Networks Limited, Olusegun Ogunsanya, amongst many others was a gathering of stalwarts from across the Lagos business community in celebrating an iconic brand.