SIR:  The environment is losing its biodiversity every day. The Global Risks Report emphasizes this trend again and again. Pollution of the sea and air has become a serious threat to human health. Insects required to pollinate plants are in sharp decline in many places in Nigeria. Are we able to make the alterations necessary for a safer and more secure environment? Some environmentalists feel that education should be part of the answer. If so, what kind of education? Environment is the sum of all external conditions affecting the life, development and survival of an organism. The worsening environmental issue in Nigeria is a major concern for all. Unfortunately, despite awareness nothing has changed. The adult community destroys the environment without governmental mechanisms put in place to stop the trend. The result is that the new-fangled generations are quickly buying into the destructive culture, and one wonders what will become of the environment, many years to come. There aren’t bottle banks where people can drop bottles for recycling purposes. It used to be so in the past when recycling of used products was a government policy. Not any longer. Even though environmentalists frown at the destructive activities of man, this concern does not translate into action. Young children do not know anything about “ozone layer,” “global warming,” “greenhouse effect,” Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without comprising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs; not simply the use of resources at a rate which could be maintained without diminishing future levels, but development which also takes social implications into account. The environment is a system, which must be treated fairly so as to make it be in equilibrium. It appears that this system is in disequilibrium in Nigeria. Nigeria has not been able to manage her waste. What is worse it seems is that adults debase the environment and pass on the culture to youngsters. If this trend continues, what would be left for future generations? Citizens drink water from bottles and sachet and throw it on the floor not in garbage bins. You could probably give them latitude, for there are no garbage bins in strategic places, in most places in Nigeria. Is that enough reason to be environmentally reckless? Environmentalists and regional planners say that a well-planned city benefit everyone. Further, such cities bounce back when environmental disasters strike, especially those that are properly zoned. Are the cities in Nigeria properly zoned? Major cities from Australia (Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney) – New Zealand – Canada (Calgary, Vancouver) – Finland are credited amongst some of the best places on earth to live a happy life. The crime rates are low, quality of health services are high, they have very many nodal-transportation –links as well as a balance in the indices (positive) for measuring growth of a society.  Nigeria should aspire to have such aesthetic scenery. Garbage litters every corner and bends as you drive into almost every city in Nigeria. The country hasn’t been able to manage its environment. So poor and out of life are many cities indeed. Nigerian cities can be another Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney, Calgary, Vancouver if only the managers of the environment can maintain the environment in the right manner even as they plan to expand the city. Drainage pathways are blocked with garbage, chemical products are emptied in open water channels, and garbage dumps are arbitrary, and most are around homes where people live. Every person in Nigeria everywhere has the right to health, and to a safe and healthy environment. Regrettably, these rights are often not valued. Nigerians suffer from severe health problems caused by glut of harmful substances in the environment. Harmful materials which despoil the environment are no respecter of status, race, ethnicity, religion, gender, class, poverty, or for other reasons. There is the need to promote campaigns for a healthy, safe, productive, and enjoyable environment. The education of people for environmental justice especially at the primary and secondary schools must begin now. There are too many people and communities suffering unreasonably from environmental health tragedies, and the numbers of people forming coalitions to protect and defend their right to health and environmental justice in the wake of these tragedies are few. I feel pained. Really pained. 