 Lagos State government has once again reiterated its commitment in ensuring total eradication of gender-based violence in the state, as the state has zero tolerance for perpetrators of such crimes. Speaking at a two-day Advocacy/Sensitisation workshop on gender-based violence for men/boys, which was tagged Men/Boys too can take action to end gender-based violence, which was held in Alausa, Lagos, the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs. Cecilia Bolaji-Dada, pointed out men and boys can help in changing the narrative by taking decisive actions to end all forms of gender-based violence. “As fathers, husbands and head of families you must bear in mind that it is your duty to do a thorough soul-search and spread the news about dangers associated with domestic violence. Every woman you come across in your journey must be treated with love and respect,” she warned. According to Bolaji-Dada, “the man who is able to put his emotions under control is indeed a very strong man, whereas the man that has no control over his emotion or temper is like a city without a wall, who is prone to any magnitude of destruction. This is highly uncalled for, let us ensure that our homes are places of peace, love and tranquillity.” While charging students who attended the second day of the workshop, Bolaji-Dada enjoined them to avoid all forms of violence against girls. “On our part, Lagos State government, through the Ministry of Poverty Alleviation, has from time to time organised sensitisation programmes in both rural and urban areas of the state. Government therefore reiterates its commitment in ensuring total eradication of gender-based violence in the state, as the state has zero tolerance for perpetrators of such crimes. The state is concerned with issues affecting the welfare of the citizens and would do anything possible to ensure that the people enjoy a good and secured life,” she said. On his part, the Assistant Director, Social Welfare, Mr. Jubril Abisogun, who is one of the facilitators, said “The result of violence is grave, and it can be prevented by being tolerant, this boils down to understanding and loving your spouse, prevention is always better than cure.” Participants were exposed to topics such as ‘The psychologist view to the prevention and management of gender-based violence’; ‘Prevention, response and the legal implication to gender-based violence in the family’, among others. 