 The Senate on Tuesday alerted the Federal Government to the security implications in the implementation of its visa-on-arrival policy for Africans visiting Nigeria. The policy was recently announced by President Muhammadu Buhari in Egypt. The Senate summoned the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbosola, to appear before it with the Comptroller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammed Babandede, to explain the policy. Aregbesola and Babandede are to brief the Senate Committees on Interior, Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters on “the technical, logistics, legal and constitutional issues that are available and are required for compliance before the implementation of visa-on-arrival policy”. The invitation to Aregbesola followed a point of order raised by the senator representing Ekiti North, Olubunmi Adetunmbi, titled: “Urgent need to seek domestication of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement by an Act of the National Assembly prior to the implementation of the proposed Visa-on-Arrival for citizens of African countries as recently directed by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Nigerian Immigration Service.” The senator told his colleagues that the Executive did not seek necessary amendments to extant laws through the National Assembly before the policy became operational. President Buhari, in his speech during the Aswan Forum on peace and sustainable development held in Egypt, said African passport holders can apply for a visa upon arrival in the country, in a move aimed at encouraging free movement of people on the continent. In his contribution to the motion, Senate President Ahmad Lawan urged the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice to forward similar protocols and international agreements entered into by the country to the National Assembly for ratification and domestication. He said: “There are other treaties and agreements that we have signed as a country. I think the AGF should be able to forward these to the National Assembly for us to file them appropriately and give them the legal backing that they require.” Adetunmbi alluded to reports on December 12, 2019, that the NIS had approved all Africans to enter Nigeria without visa, as from January 2020. he senator urged his colleagues to also note that the visa-on-arrival policy is in furtherance of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement signed by Nigeria in July 2019. He insisted that Section 12 of the Treaties Making Procedures Act, 1993, “requires that as a requisite, the National Assembly ought to enact legislation for the purpose of giving effect to all treaties after their ratification by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria or other members of the Executive arm of government of Nigeria”.
Adetunmbi urged his colleagues to be concerned that neither the Federal Executive Council (FEC) nor a member of the Executive arm of government had submitted to the National Assembly a Bill for domestication of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, “which is a necessary prerequisite before its implementation”.
He added: “Therefore, it is premature constitutionally and legally impossible for the provisions of the said agreement to have any effect within the territory of Nigeria.” The senator said he knew the National Assembly had not delegated its powers of legislation to domestication of international treaties and agreements under Section 12 of the 1999 Constitution to either the President or to the NIS or any other agency. He urged his colleagues to be worried that the nation’s security, from the viewpoint of insurgency, could be jeopardised by the implementation of the AFCTA through the visa on arrival policy without necessary domestication. Senate Minority Leader Enyinnaya Abaribe said Nigerians were worried about the policy because of the spate of insecurity caused by some foreigners. “I know that Nigeria is a big brother of Africa. But sometimes if you try to be big brother when you don’t have anything left, you may just find yourself with nothing. And we want to make sure we take care of our citizens before we start taking care of the whole of Africa,” Abaribe said. Senator Gabriel Suswam (PDP, Benue Northeast) said: “For me, the President made a policy statement within the context of African Heads of States. I don’t think it was intended that the policy was going to be implemented without all the necessary amendment. This is because if you look at the Immigration Act, it states clearly the method of coming into this country.
“You must have a visa before you come in. We don’t have a policy that allows us or allows other nationals to come into this country to get visa on arrival. “So, we must necessarily, as a National Assembly saddled with that responsibility, legislate on that before it is implemented. Otherwise, I don’t think there is any problem.”