A total of 16 companies were sanctioned this year at the Nigerian stock market for failing to adhere to best corporate governance practice that requires quoted companies to submit their periodic results within a stipulated timeline. A regulatory report by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) at the weekend indicated that several companies across the sectors failed to meet their stipulated timelines and were sanctioned by authorities at the Exchange. The highest fine for the period was N41.1 million while the lowest fine was N200,000. The list included Flour Mills of Nigeria, Lasaco Assurance, Afromedia, Niger Insurance, RT Briscoe Nigeria, Greif Nigeria and Universal Insurance, which all failed to submit its 2019 audited report within schedule. Several companies also defaulted many times, which increased the amount of fine. Other defaulters included Thomas Wyatt Nigeria, Royal Exchange, Union Bank of Nigeria, Conoil, Access Bank, Guinea Insurance, Interlinked Technologies and Anino International. Under the rules, quoted companies are required to file their unaudited quarterly accounts with the NSE not later than 30 calendar days after the relevant quarter, and publish it within five business days after the date of filing, in at least a national daily newspaper, and post it on the company’s website, with the web address disclosed in the newspaper publication. Also, an electronic copy of the publication shall be filed with the Exchange on the same day as the newspaper publication. Where the company chooses to audit its quarterly accounts, it shall be required to file such accounts not later than 60 calendar days after the relevant quarter. While the rules allow the Exchange to grant specific waiver to relevant companies or a general waiver of the deadline under some specific circumstances, the Exchange treats waiver on a case-by-case basis. General waiver is usually given in the event of general disruption to industrial activities such as strike, national crises, many public holidays and other circumstances that in the judgement of the Exchange may significantly impact the 30-day timeline given to companies to prepare and submit the quarterly report. The monetary fines become almost automatic after the expiration of the deadline. According to the rules, notwithstanding that a company takes the required steps during the cure periods or later complies with the provisions of the rules, any company that defaults in filing its accounts within the stipulated periods shall be liable to pay the applicable penalties, except the affected company had received waiver or extension of time by the Exchange. In addition to the monetary fines, a defaulting company will be tagged with the “Below Listing Standard” (BLS) or any other sign or expression to indicate that the company has failed to submit its accounts within the stipulated period and this tag shall remain for as long as the company fails to file its accounts. In a more rigourous naming and shaming practice, a defaulting company is expected to within three business days of receipt of the second filing deficiency notification and suspension of trading in its securities, to inform the Exchange in writing of the status of the accounts, and issue a press release, of not less than half a page, in at least two national daily newspapers, with the company’s web address indicated in the newspaper publication, and posted on the company’s website disclosing the status of the relevant accounts, reason for the delay in submission, and the anticipated filing date. An electronic copy of the publication shall be filed with the Exchange on the same day as the publication. The suspension of trading in the company’s shares shall only be lifted upon submission of the relevant accounts in line with the requirements of the NSE.