Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has approved the appointment of members of board of Fountain Holdings Ltd, an investment company owned by the state government. This is to drive investment. The new board is headed by Mr. Jide Ogundare. Other members are: Prof. Abiodun Ayeni- Agbaje, Dr. Tunde Adeniran, Ms. Folakemi Fatogbe and Prince Bode Adetoyi. Statutory members of the board are the Commissioner for Finance and Commissioner for Investment, Trade and Industry, while the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Seyi Aiyeleso, will also serve on the board.
Members of the board come with extensive experience in the private and public sectors and are expected to drive the investment portfolio of the company. The Chairman, Mr. Ogundare, is the CEO of MBO Capital. He is a trained economist and former Executive Director and Head, Retail Banking Division of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank), where he worked for 21 years, before retiring in 2011. He holds a Master’s degree in Business Administration from Cardiff Business School and a degree in Law from School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1987. Prof. Ayeni-Agbaje, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), is a lecturer at the Department of Accounting, Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti. She is also the Chairman of ICAN, Ekiti State chapter. Dr. Adeniran has a PhD in Geology and was General Manager in Total Nigeria Plc, where he spent 22 years and held managerial positions before his appointment as Group Executive Director in charge of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Ventures in 2016. Adeniran supervised 11 commercial and investment companies of the corporation dealing in crude and LPG sales and was charged with diversifying NNPC’s economic base through commercialisation of non-assets and creating new investments. He is the Special Adviser to the Governor on Energy Matters. Ms Fatogbe is the Director of Risk Management at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Prior to her appointment at the CBN, she had a 20-year long career in the banking industry (mostly in the United Kingdom), where she held positions as Senior Risk Analyst and Programme Director among others. She holds an MBA in Finance & International Business from the University of Wales, Cardiff Business School. Prince Adetoyi is Chief Executive Officer of Hi-Nutrient International Limited. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Agriculture and a Master’s degree in Animal Nutrition and Bio-Chemistry. He has undergone training in business management in Nigeria and overseas. Their appointments take immediate effect.