Ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State has urged the citizens of the state to approach the Christmas and New Year festivities with a reassurance that the future will certainly be bright under the Governor Gboyega Oyetola-led administration. The APC Director of Publicity, Research and Strategy, Kunle Oyatomi made this promise in a statement made available to reporters in Osogbo on Monday. According to the party: “Indications from the outgoing year 2019 presage a pacesetting flourish of economic, industrial and social development for 2020, unlike anything the state has witnessed in the current decade.” The party said already, investments made by the state government, which have transformed Osun into a business friendly environment were producing such encouraging results that investors, (local or international) were pledging to set up in the state in 2020. The APc spokesman said: “This is a further reason for thanksgiving by the people of Osun during this advent and new year celebration. “What makes the prospects of 2020 even more reassuring is that quite a number of would-be investors have contributed hundreds of millions of naira to guarantee their investment. “That is a measure of investor confidence in Osun as a reliable and safe business destination.” According to the party, these are  the results of the last Economic Summit held in Osogbo late 2019 during which investors were exposed to the strategic position and natural resource endowment of Osun that make it a potentially suitable  economic hub for profitable business. “The impact of this development on employment will be outstanding while the knock on effect on the standard of living in the state will exceed expectations,” the party said. The Osun APC further stated that one of the gains of the summit “is that business activities will accelerate and boost internally generated revenue for the state government. The party added: “Indeed, the prognosis is that by the 4th Quarter of 2020, about 30 to 40 per cent, (if not more) of the state Budget will be largely funded by internally generated revenue. “When you add all of the above to the increased social welfare packages that Governor Oyetola has initiated, coupled with the enhanced security for business to operate unobstructed, Osun will bubble and investors will smile to the banks”, the APC said. “In this atmosphere, the opposition that had become addicted to baseless criticism will have little or no fodder left to disturb Osun with the nuisance value of its unconstructive assaults.”  