Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  The Kano State Police Command Tuesday said it has arrested over 173, as well recovered 500 cows, N17.5m and 570 tyres from criminal suspects paraded for various offences, ranging from Kidnapping, armed robbers, cattle rustling and human trafficking. Briefing Reporters on Tuesday, at the Bompai Police Command Headquarters, the Commissioner of Police, Habu Ahmed Sani, said they arrested two notorious kidnappers, who abducted an 11-year-old, Ali Mohammed, at Kwana Hudu quarters drugged and buried him alive at an uncompleted building, a Wase village, Minjibir Local Government Area of the State. He gave the names of the two suspects arrested, as Aminu Suleiman 29, and Abdulrashid Ishaq 32, of Tundun Murtala quarters, who were tailed and arrested in Kaduna state. Also, the police in its continued efforts to rid Kano of criminals, arrested one notorious Kidnapper/armed robber, Aliyu Mohammed, of Diga, Kumbotso Local Government area of Kano State, Alas, ‘Ali Kawara’, who have been terrorizing innocent citizens for about four years along Falgore Forest axis, was trailed and arrested. In addition, the Police were able to recover two AK 47 Assault rifles, 80 rounds of live ammunition, a pair of suspected Army Camouflage uniform and two bulletproof charmed jackets. Also, seven suspects, including a security guard, were arrested for breaking into a warehouse, located at Sabon Gari quarters, where the evacuated a large quantity of brand new motor vehicle tyres. In the cause of investigation, 570 of such tyres, valued at N15 million, displayed at the Command were recovered from them. ”One armed robbery suspect, Hassan Isiyaku, 27, of Doro village, Bindawa LGA , Katsina State, was arrested in possession of 10 drums of Electric Power Transformer oi, valued at N1.5 million. The suspect confessed to have participated in the armed robbery at Kura town.” According to the police boss, three suspects, who specialize in breaking motor vehicle booths, who trailed a man, to the bank, who was about to wed, were arrested, when, they broke into the booth of the vehicle and carted away N480, 000, which was later recovered. Following an operation by the police, 67 thugs, (Yandaba) and phone thief suspects were arrested after an intelligence-driven led raid, conducted before, during and after the just concluded Maukibi celebrations, as all the suspects have been charged to court for prosecution. Sani, stated that: ”seven notorious kidnapping/cattle rustling suspects were terrorizing parts of Kano, Kaduna and Katisina States were trailed, with technical support and arrested. Items recovered from the suspects, include four AK 47 rifles, Dane guns, two pairs of Army Camouflage uniforms and 500 cows. The police boss said, all the suspects arrested in connection, with the case of the Kano 10 children, who were kidnapped and rescued in Onitsha, Anambra State have been charged to court for prosecution. He said, items recovered by the police during their numerous operations, include, five stolen motor vehicles, two motorcycles, 180 assorted knives, 25 swords, 128 clubs, large quantity of dry leaves, suspected to be Indian Hemp.