By Adekunle Yusuf  The Chief Executive Officer, Rejuvenate 360 Limited, Mr Onyekachi Agudosi, has stated that the poor healthcare in Nigeria and other African countries will change, if digital health solutions are embraced. Agudosi stated this at the inauguration of the Rejuvenate 360’s Learn Health Initiative, which aims at promoting health and vitality. Digitalisation will help improve health outcomes and patients’ care in the country, he stressed. He explained that the initiative was designed to help individuals and communities to improve their health by increasing their attitude for better health through a professional learning platform. Giving recommendations on how healthcare can move forward, the Rejuvenate 360 boss also pointed out that education, technology and care could improve healthcare. “We have seen situations where people do not know what to do when a doctor is not reachable to give adequate information on what to do in an emergency. This led me to champion this movement, introducing the initiative to learning health where you know what do when the doctors are not around,” Agudosi said. He added that the initiative would enable mental preparedness for an epidemic, provides insight on proper diet and nutrition advocates for quality care and health care financing.  “To move the conversation forward and reshape the narratives, we need to start taking care of the primary health care today which includes understanding infection and control, understanding diseases, and having basic knowledge when it comes to health care enterprise. “We are giving access to healthcare practitioners. If someone is trying to find basic information about healthcare or finding nearby hospital, it should free and we are trying to push the conversation forward because digitalisation is here to stay. There is always a way forward; it is strategic innovative, and disruptive,” Agudosi said. The Country Manager, Health Connect 247, Dr Uche Udeozo, said digitilisation would address the unmet needs in the health care industry. “Digital health technology can increase the patient to doctor ratio and importantly improve health outcomes of patients,” he said.