 ALL too often, policymakers and development experts reflexively assume a positive correlation between the expansion of access to education and the rate of socio-economic development in any country. Thus, the provision of quality education for the vast majority of a country’s population is the fourth item on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) made up of 17 policy objectives set up in 2015 to be pursued as a “blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all” by member countries of the organisation to be achieved by the year 2030. Experts lament that the over 10 million children reported to be out of school in Nigeria, for instance, is not only a measure of the present depth of poverty prevalence in the country but it also portends a gloomy future for those unfortunate children who are being deprived of the skills, information and outlook to participate productively in an ever-increasingly more competitive global society. To address this problem, governments at all levels have invested heavily in education since the beginning of this dispensation in 1999 although stakeholders in the sector continue to contend that the percentage of the federal and state budgets allocated to education still falls far short of the funding level required to make the requisite developmental impact. Many northern states in particular such as Kaduna, Sokoto, Kano, Plateau and Borno, as examples, have aggressively pursued the expansion of educational facilities, the improvement of curricula as well as the quality of teaching not only to tackle the endemic poverty in the region but to also bridge the gap between the North and the South in that key criterion of development. But is the sheer phenomenal increase in the quantity of primary, secondary and tertiary institutions as well as the number of those who graduate from them or even an improvement in the quality of the certificates acquired by these graduates a sufficient condition for education to make the desired impact as a catalyst of national development? Standtall Africa Initiative (STAI), a Leadership & Capacity Building Training and Educational Consultancy Organisation with presence in Nigeria and a number of other African countries, does not think so. The organization’s Country Representative in Nigeria, Dr Emmanuel Ogoh, a Medical Psychologist and author, contends that the vast increase in the number of graduates from diverse educational institutions at all levels has not been matched with an accompanying inculcation of a habitual and widespread reading culture among a significant percentage of the population such as can facilitate the emergence of a truly enlightened and development-enhancing citizenry. To promote a healthy reading culture as a harbinger of a genuine knowledge renaissance in Africa and Nigeria, STAI, which focuses on Leadership Development, Education and Entrepreneurship, has come up with a number of programmes targeted at specific critical segments of the education terrain. These include ‘The Readers’ Award’ designed for lecturers of tertiary institutions, ‘The Readers’ Competition’, which will be organized at different levels for students of primary, secondary and tertiary institutions and ‘The Nigeria Reads Award’, which is aimed at a broad cross-section of Nigerians across organizations, careers and professions and will commence by January 2020. On Saturday, 16th November, STAI held the grand finale of its ‘The Readers’ Award’ event for 2019 and also on the occasion formally inaugurated its ‘Readers’ Ambassadorial team for the effective reading and research campaign across Nigeria. The event, which took place at the JVM hotel on Abacha Road on the Abuja-Keffi Expressway in Nasarawa State, attracted academics and administrators from various tertiary institutions including representatives of the Federal Ministry of Education, National Universities Commission (NUC) and the National Education Research Development Centre (NERDC). Giving an insight into the rationale for ‘The Readers’ Award’ programme, Dr. Ogoh explained that “The aim of the award is to return the lecturers who are the builders of the younger generation back to effective reading and research. The old saying is true that we can’t give what we don’t have. If the vision of bringing our youths out of the educational quagmire of low or zero appetite for avid reading is anything achievable, then our lecturers and the flag-bearers of our tertiary institutions must be motivated through events like the readers award and other productive projects to challenge the status quo and go beyond the norm academically by engaging in practical result-oriented reading and research works”. A total of 5,200 research papers from 85 institutions entered for the 2019 edition of the competition out of which 18 were shortlisted as the best and out of which four winners eventually emerged after a rigorous written examination. According to Dr Ogoh, “The 5,200 papers submitted were not from across the whole country. It’s only across the northern part of the country. Each participant submitted two research works. The 18 shortlisted papers were picked based on their performance not zonal or quota system. If all 18 winners had emerged from a single institution, it would have been announced just like that”. The first prize, which attracted a cash award of N2 million was won by Professor Joseph Mangut of the University of Jos whose area of research is the historical archaeology of the Central Nigeria region with specialization in the Jos Plateau. Dr Idowu Enoch Abiodun of the Department of Dentistry, College of Medicine, University of Jos, came second and won a cash prize of N1 million while Professor Gabriel Bassey Egbe of the Department of English and Linguistics, Veritas University, Bwari, Abuja, came third with an award of N500,000. An associate professor of economics at Bingham (ECWA) University, Keffi, Nasarawa State, came 4th with his entry on ‘The IMF, World Bank and Nigeria’s Economic Reforms’ and was rewarded with N100,000. Dr Ogoh told The Nation that the winning entries for the 2019 award will be put forward to compete in the international edition of the competition, which will take place next year with $35,000 at stake as cash award for the first prize. The STAI country representative believes that economic incentives can also be used to encourage and promote reading and qualitative research. He explains that just as is the case of the music and entertainment industry where those who excel are amply rewarded monetarily, ‘STAI, throughout the effective reading campaigns, shall always seek platforms where established and avid readers will be financially motivated and rewarded with cash and other valuable prizes as the case may be”. A major highlight of the programme was an illuminating presentation by Professor Yusuf M. Adamu, of the Department of Geography, Bayero University, Kano, on the problems, challenges and prospects of reading and research in Nigeria. Describing the development of a reading culture as a way of life and a lifelong activity, Professor Adamu noted that in the 19th century, Sultan Mohammed Bello of Sokoto knowledgeably discussed the theories of Euclid with the European explorer, Hugh Clapperton, when the latter visited him in Sokoto with copies of the mathematician’s books which the Sultan had apparently read. He stressed the importance of children being taught to cultivate the reading habit very early in life pointing out that a good library should be an essential and indispensable feature of any home.  In this regard, he advised that STAI’s reading campaigns should target parents as a critical factor in helping to catch children young and inculcating in them the art of reading at an impressionable age. He lamented the fact that most parents now tend to adopt the attitude that it is the responsibility of teachers to impart knowledge to their children, while their own responsibility is to ensure that school fees are paid. If children are to develop a passion for reading, he said, then the parents are the ones best placed to orientate them in such a direction especially now when there are so many other competing distractions. Of course, it is only those parents who are themselves passionate readers that are most likely to nurture a similar attitude to books in their children. He emphasized that parents not only have a responsibility to provide well-stocked libraries of books for their children at home but they must also find the time to read to their children at home and discuss whatever they read with them. If sufficient attention is not paid to ensuring that children acquire good reading skills early enough particularly at the nursery and primary school level, he said, they are unlikely to develop the facility effectively enough later in life. Unfortunately, also, he said, most parents restrict themselves to buying recommended textbooks for different subjects taught at school for their children thus depriving them of the immense benefits and pleasure of a much broader and wider range of reading beyond school texts. This tendency to concentrate on subject textbooks rather than the desirable more general, cross-disciplinary kind of reading, Professor Adamu stressed, is also reinforced by our essentially certificate-driven educational system whereby children read to pass examinations and become certificate bearers rather than to cultivate the mind, enjoy the pleasures of reading and becoming more rounded human beings. Teachers, particularly at the foundational stage of the educational process, are also critical to the nurturing of children passionately attracted to reading. This means, Professor Adamu argued, that the quality of teachers will also negatively impact on the reading habits and skills of children. When teachers themselves do not read beyond the requirements of their specialized subject areas, they will be unable to inspire and motivate their pupils to read widely. Even at the higher levels of tertiary education, he observed, a large number of academics confine their reading to books within their spheres of specialisation and thus are also unable to be role models to their students in terms of cultivating a broad-based reading regime. Another factor that has militated against the evolution of a vibrant reading culture according to Professor Adamu is the decline in the teaching and nurturing of literature and the humanities generally. Rather, there is more emphasis now placed on education in the so-called STEM subjects – Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, which are seen as more relevant and important for accelerated socio-economic development as well as providing those with such skills brighter employment prospects. But literature and the humanities are still indispensable even in the most advanced societies to the nurturing of truly cultured and ethically elevated human beings by promoting and inculcating virtues and values without which science can only lead a man down the abyss of amorality and base materialism. The preoccupation with education in the hard sciences, Professor Adamu noted, has resulted in the perceived best brains being channelled into the STEM subject areas thus negatively affecting the wide and cultivated reading associated with education in literature and the humanities. Professor Adamu noted that his first desire, for instance, was to read history but he was pressured by the conventional wisdom to specialize in the sciences. This means that the cultivation of a widespread culture of elevated and ennobling reading will also be dependent to a large extent on a revival of popular interest in literature and the humanities irrespective of the individual’s profession, occupation or academic inclination. Professor Adamu also dwelt on the critical role of good libraries in homes, schools and communities in the inculcation of healthy reading habits among significant numbers of people. With the level of poverty in the society and the buying of books not understandably being the priority of a vast majority of Nigerians, there can be no alternative to government investment in the setting up of good libraries in cities, towns and communities. He cited the example of Kano where some traditional rulers have been encouraged to establish royal libraries within their palaces for the benefit of their people. He noted, interestingly, that in Kano there is a wider reading of books written in Hausa than publications in English. It is certainly worth exploring if wide dissemination of books written in indigenous languages will not be a more effective means of public enlightenment for a large number of Nigerians non-literate in English. Of course, the professor also inevitably referred to how the social media – Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, WhatsApp etc – have become serious impediments to the habit of cultured and pleasurable reading. Unfortunately, social media discourages the kind of concentration that reading requires, has a tendency to shorten the individual’s attention span and even incapacitates the habit of thoughtful, reflective and coherent communication. The other leg of Professor Adamu’s presentation was on the challenges of effective research in Nigerian universities. He asked a number of penetrating questions as regards the characteristics of academic research in Nigeria: “Do we have a research culture in Nigeria? Do we as academics research for development or essentially for promotion? Do we research to solve problems or to gain promotion?  Are our research activities institutional and collaborative in nature or essentially individualistic? Does each person just carry out his own research activity or is there an overarching framework within which researchers operate? Do various universities have institutional research policies and how many universities have research bibliographies?” He cited the problems and challenges militating against qualitative research in Nigerian universities to include poor funding, inadequate facilities, underutilization of existing facilities in a number of cases, poor research motivation especially after attaining professorial status, deficient research skills, frequent industrial actions, poor mentoring of young researchers by their academic seniors as well as poor peer review mechanisms among others. To develop development-oriented research cultures in the universities, Professor Adamu suggested that not only must each university have a guiding Research Policy; Departments should have specified research areas linked to the overall institutional research policy. He also stressed the need for interactive and collaborative research work beyond individual efforts while attendance at research conferences should not be a privilege only for those in the good books of university authorities. He equally emphasized the need to adequately reward qualitative and path-breaking research published in authoritative and highly respected journals. Noting that all these would ultimately depend on the allocation of sufficient resources to research, he said that “No nation can develop faster than its education and this is dependent on an effective reading and research culture”. The final phase of the event was the inauguration of the Effective Reading and Research Ambassadorial Team which has His Royal Highness, John Gabriel Makwal II SAF, Burutu, Bokkos Local Government Area, Plateau State, Jos, as the Grand patron. It is a testimony to how seriously the traditional ruler takes the reading campaign that he personally attended the ceremony despite an important coronation ceremony going on his domain that day. In his eloquent and stirring speech, the traditional ruler said: “This event is most timely especially for a generation like ours which is devoid of qualitative reading materials and our homes have been invaded by Facebook, Twitter and Instagram etc. I went into science school and qualified as an engineer with little or no knowledge of history, geography and other aspects of the humanities. The truth is that if I had read history I would have failed because engineering is much simpler. In engineering, all you needed to know was the formula and you would pass but in history, you have to read extensively. We need a new generation of reading youth nurtured by well-furnished libraries and conscientious parents as readers.” He promised to start the reading promotion campaign right from the Plateau State University located in his domain saying that if the country is to achieve her developmental aspirations, a growing number of Nigerians must begin to read to acquire knowledge, elevate the mind and refine the character rather than just to pass examinations. Dr Emmanuel Ogoh expressed satisfaction with the enthusiastic turn out for the event and said STAI has plans to systematically spread its activities across the country once it is firmly rooted in its present areas of operation.