Moses Emorinken, Abuja The Honorable Commissioner of Education, Kano state, Alhaji Muhammad Sanusi Said Kiru, has commended the collaboration with the development Research and Projects Centre (dRPC) to develop public libraries and promote reading culture in the state, especially among the girl-child. The Commissioner, who disclosed this during the formal signing ceremony of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the development Research and Projects Center in Kano, explained that the state is implementing programs to improve the reading culture and educational outcomes through partnership in the development of public libraries in the state. The agreement, which was signed by the state government on behalf of the Kano State Library Board (KSLB), is intended to expand the children’s collection of the Murtala Mohammed Library Kano State Library Board, to provide a learning environment for female secondary school students running community-based children centers in the state and to strengthen other collections in the Library. In his speech, the Executive Secretary Kano State Library Board, Dr. Ibrahim Bichi, stated that the dRPC will support the library with children books, toys, provide refreshment for children visiting the library from public schools and deploy two staff to check the books usage on weekly basis. Explaining why the dRPC decided to enter the MoU to support reading culture in Kano state, the dRPC team led by Alh. Ubale Ibrahim Rano reiterated the commitment of the dRPC to support the education sector in the state as education is one of its core mandates. “Let me reassure the state government of our commitment to support the ongoing efforts at moving the education sector forward as we collectively work to support the determination to make education accessible to all in the state,” he said. The dRPC and the KSLB have had three years of fruitful collaboration; working together to train female secondary school graduates to run community based early childhood development centers with min-libraries. Under the PSIPSE project, forty girls are currently running ECD centers across the state especially in rural areas. The MoU, which will last for one year, constitutes a new mechanism to deepen the collaboration between the dRPC and the State government to realize the Kano state government’s vision for an improved reading culture. The dRPC, a local non-governmental organization, will donate thousands of books to the state Library. Also with the support of the state government, it will strengthen and expand existing collections.