Although a study conducted by the Department of Psychology in one of Argentina’s top universities in 2017 revealed that men who were in a relationship with chubby women were ten times happier than those involved with skinny women. That study also found that there is more to love in fat women, particularly the fact that they give nicer hugs and are better cook than the skinny women. But being overweight has also been proved to come with various health hazards, some of which could lead to sudden death. It is for this reason that ‘The Fastest Shedder,’ a reality TV show initiated by Seyi Olushore aka Shedams becomes highly welcome. Speaking at the official launch of the show’s third edition, titled, ‘The Fastest Shedder’ Season 3 in Lagos last week, Olusore said obesity is a medical condition that increases the risk of other diseases and health problems such as heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure and certain cancers. He revealed how the season 2 series of the show prevented a 22-year-old undergraduate from taking her life as a result of being overweight. He said the idea, which took roots in 2004 while she was an undergraduate at the Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, was created to enlighten Nigerians about the benefits of incorporating fitness and healthy eating habits into their daily lives, with special attention to individuals who are aspiring to shed more kilograms in a right and safe way. Recounting the success stories of the programme in the years past, Olusore revealed that the season 2 winner, Ada Onwubuya came in with a total weight of 26.55kg and shed 23.1 kg, while the first runner-up Vera Agu, came with a total weight of 28.35kg and shed 20.0kg, all within 90 days via healthy diet and exercise. He also recalled how some women who had not been menstruating for several months, started seeing their monthly period after the training, while it became easier for those who could not bend to lace their shoes to do so. ‘The Fastest Shedder’ is a Nigerian registered trademark and sponsored by Three Crowns Milk. Reeling out the activities for the Season 3, Olushore revealed that the show will be a life-changing adventure with fitness and wellness experts on standby to ensure a successful season in a careful and safe environment via recommended diet and exercise routine. “Sequel to the success of season 2 and with the level of awareness generated in African countries like Tanzania, Ghana, Lesotho, Cameron, Botswana and Congo, we decided to make ‘The Fastest Shedder Season 3 a Pan-African show in order to give opportunities to the foreigners too. “Auditions have kicked off today (November 23) and ten selected participants will be housed in an undisclosed location for 90 days and all their activities will be documented and aired for an hour every week on Vox Africa UK, WAPtv, Rave TV, Pop Central TV, while we await confirmation from other TV stations.” “They will be enlightened, re-orientated on meal plans and healthier food options. Side attractions such as puzzles, themed team tasks, fashion skills, craft design, make it competition, treasure hunt and many others and the winner from this season would be rewarded with a car.” Lending his voice, a wellness and fitness expert, Joel Uzamere, stated that obesity is one of the major killer diseases and therefore stressed that wellness and fitness is necessary for all. He described ‘The Fastest Shedder’ as a life transforming programme that adds value to people’s lives physically, noting that the show is not only about the participants alone but about teeming population that would also benefit from the show by watching on TV.