Workers of The Nation ended the year on a prayerful note with a thanksgiving service at the company’s Lagos head office yesterday. In what has become an annual event, it was Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Paul Adewunmi who took charge of the proceedings as guest minister. Members of management and other categories of employees attended the session at the Vintage Press Limited office quadrangle. Present were Executive Director (Finance) Sunday Adeleke, General Manager (Training and Development) Soji Omotunde, Editor The Nation Adeniyi Adesina, Editor Sunday Nation Festus Eriye and Online Editor Sunday Oguntola. Also present were Deputy Chairman of the Editorial Board Tunji Adegboyega, Deputy Editor (Daily) Emmanuel Oladesu, Deputy Editor (Saturday) Vincent Akanmode, Deputy Editor Sporting Life Ejiro Femi-Babafemi, Editorial Page Editor Sanya Oni, News Coordinator (Weekend) Dapo Olufade,  Assistant Editor Dare Odufowokan and Advertisement Manager Robinson Osirike. Many journalists, administrators, Accounts, Advertisement and other categories of workers also attended the event. Pastor Adewunmi advised the workers to position themselves and the company for glory by “walking in the way of righteousness, being faithful and committed to your responsibilities”. Reading from Mark 16:20, Haggai 2:9 and other Bible passages, the cleric noted that “glory is the presence and embodiment of God in a place or situation”. He stressed that the glory of God is so powerful that wherever it is found, “it dispels darkness, expels evil and swallows shame”. According to him, many Bible characters experienced shame before they saw the glory of God, and the glory erased every shame from their lives. Adewunmi encouraged the workers and management to engage in activities that will make the company grow from one level of greatness to another, not activities that will bring down the company.  The cleric noted that the glory of a company rests heavily on the glory of its members of staff. “If workers are glorified, then the company will be glorified,” he said. Extending a call to prayers on behalf of the company to the workers, Adewunmi told his audience that “when the glory of God comes upon a man that was hitherto debased, he will be celebrated”. He prayed that just as the Queen of Sheba travelled thousands of miles to honour King Solomon in all his glory, The Nation will become a force to reckon with. Prayers were said for the company so that The Nation will grow in leaps and bounds. He also prayed for the workers. Eriye, who is also a pastor of RCCG, gave the opening prayers while Adeleke said the closing prayers.   Omotunde, who coordinated activities, presented copies of Vintage Press products – The Nation, Sporting Life and the Yoruba newspaper, the latest baby of the company, Gbelegbo – to the visiting pastor.