By Sampson Unamka  McPherson University has graduated its fourth set of students. The set consisted of  92 students, 15 First Class Honours (16.3%), 38 Second Class Upper Division, while 31 graduated with Second Class Lower Division . Others fall into the Third Class category. Vice Chancellor, McPherson university Prof. Adeniyi Agunbiade, while delivering his charge to the students referred to the graduating set as ‘Elite Class of 2019 Champions.’ “Our highly celebrated graduands of today have chosen for themselves to be called the Elite Class of 2019 Champions. This special set of our graduating students received this name because throughout their stay on campus, they distinguished themselves in an elitist manner. They demonstrated strong moral courage and boldness in making choices. They saw themselves as giants where others cringed in fear of not being able to make it. Today, the world around you is celebrating you because you have conquered! As Elites, you must know where you are going. Elite teams maintain high standards of Integrity; you must own your actions and eliminate excuses from your vocabulary, always choose the harder right instead of the easier wrong, challenge the status quo thinking and processes and try new things even if it makes people uncomfortable. Remember this, as you go into the world of works, you cannot be considered a person of Integrity and collect a full pay cheque while doing only part of your job well”, he said. Annoucing the best graduating student and Valedictorian, he said “I am happy to report that OSASONA Sunmisola Ibukun, matriculation number 150301014 of the Department of Accounting and Finance (Accounting Programme), emerged the overall best graduating student with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 4.91 (the highest in the last four sessions); while ADEBAGBO Wonderful Barnabas, matriculation number 150201001 of the Department of Biological Sciences (Biochemistry) emerged the second best with a CGPA of 4.88. NEWO Oluwamurewa Ayomidotun, matriculation number 150101008, of the Department of History and International Studies emerged the third best with a CGPA of 4.84. Analysis of the results presented above indicates that the best four students in this elites class of 2019 consist of all girls. The high percentage of students with excellent and exceptional performance recorded again by this graduating Elites Class is yet not unconnected with a culture of rewarding academic excellence instituted by McPherson University as described in my reports the last three years. We pledge, once again, believing that God will help us to continue to celebrate academic excellence in order to continue to bring out the best in these young ones thrust into our hands.  In continuation of our practice of challenging the status quo and bringing about a spirit of healthy rivalry, the Valedictorian of the Elites Class has emerged, again, as a result of stiff competition among the best six students academically. Their speeches were evaluated anonymously by a carefully selected panel of judges consisting of experts in linguistics chosen from within McPherson University and I am glad to report that Miss KOYE-OLOWE Mofejesu Deborah of the Department of Physical and Computer Sciences (Computer Science) emerged as the Valedictorian of her class. This is the third time in four years that a female graduand is emerging as the Valedictorian of her class”, said Adeniyi. General Overseer, Foursquare Gospel Church and Visitor, Mc Pherson university, Reverend Felix Meduoye while giving his remark to the graduants congratulated them, he said “Finally, to you our Champions, I say big congratulations on this your well-deserved achievement. You have done well, having laboured and toiled in the past few years as students of this great Institution, you have now been found worthy to be awarded a degree of this University. Let me remind you that your passage through McPherson University was not only for academic pursuit, it was also a spiritual experience which we want you to hold dear to your heart. The world you are going into is a very challenging one and I charge you in the name of the Lord to go in and possess the land for you are well able to overcome it. You have all it takes to succeed in life, for the Lord God is with you”, he said.