The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) has disclosed that currently it has 6,849 opened complaints at different stages of resolution as it receives about 1,000 complaints weekly against 700 it was receiving yearly in the past. This increase in complaints, explained the Chief Executive Officer, FCCPC, Mr Babatunde Irukera, is as a result of more people being aware of FCCPC and their consumer rights and increased consumers confidence in the regulatory agency. Irukera made this known during an interactive session with senior media personnel where he also challenged the media to engage in more incisive investigative journalism and make regulators accountable in ensuring consumer’s rights are protected. ”This shows that our role is becoming more visible, consumers are beginning to know their rights. A recent perception index showed that the council has become more responsive,” noted the CEO. “I also think we have succeeded in inspiring the workforce in becoming more efficient and resolving more complaint. The agency has fast-tracked the turnaround time of handling and resolving complaints.” The FCCPC chief said there was need for a sustained media collaboration in the campaign for the protection of rights of Nigerian consumers. He called on the media to make regulatory agencies accountable in ensuring consumer’s rights are protected. He urged the media to always hold it and other regulatory agencies accountable for the sustainability of the campaign for the protection of rights of Nigerian consumers. Irukera emphasised that media engagement is critical to his administration’s priorities, “because of the role and place of the media in the crusade for an enhanced consumer protection in Nigeria. The media has the ability to enhance propagation of consumer protection rights in Nigeria. “We want you to analyse us, engage us, advise us and put us under pressure for the benefits of the nation,” Irukera said. Irukera, who underscored the need for sustained media input in the campaign for the protection of rights of Nigerian consumers, said many Nigerians are beginning to know their right and ways to enforce it. “We need pragmatic collaboration with the media to change the society and make the difference in consumers’ lives. The media has roles to play in the campaign to promote consumer protection and awareness; and should modify business behaviours in favour of the citizens,” he said. On the challenges facing the commission, Irukera said the biggest challenge is how to get consumers to know their rights. “Firstly, our biggest challenge is getting consumers to know that they have right. Our second challenge is getting them to enforce their rights’.’ Responding to question on the role of whistle blowers in the agency, the CEO said that it is part of what is needed from the public for effective consumer rights protection. “Just look at the number of companies that do business in Nigeria. How are we going to be doing spot checks and knowing what is going on every where? So we would work with whistle blowers. We have a business intelligence who when we receive information, verify it, commence action as was in the rice incidence in Uyo or shutting down stores in Lagos. It is because we have credible intelligence information system.” Speaking seriously against the insistence of police reports by hospitals when someone is critically injured, he said it has cost a lot of people to lose their lives. “Police report is costing lives. Why must there be police report when someone is critically injured? It is very retrogressive and must be stopped.” “The year 2019 has been the most remarkable year for FCCPC as we were able to achieve what eluded us since the inception of this commission. We were able to get the competition, consumer protection bill signed into law,” noted Irukera. 