By Ozolua Uhakheme Governor Simon Lalong has promised to facilitate the visit of American professional golfer and world champion, Tiger Woods, to Nigeria in olrder to boost the morals of golfers and golf lovers in the country. The Governor spoke at the closing ceremony of the Plateau State governor’s golf tournament which took place at the Lamingo Golf Club in Jos the state capital. Speaking at the event which had over 450 professionals and amateur golfers from across the country participated, Lalong said peace has returned to the state and that people can now come from all over to Jos to play golf with peace of mind and enjoy the weather. “Someone said we are hoping to see the likes of Tiger Woods coming to Nigeria. When we organized the President’s cup (President Muhammadu Buhari) and I returned to give him the report, Mr President said he doesn’t play golf but hockey, and I told him that it is only in golf that you can bring one person to Nigeria and the whole nation will go on holiday. He said who is the person and I told him that the person in Tiger Woods. I told him that before our tenure ends we will bring him to Nigeria. “I am just leaking the secret to you. But we have gone far on that and I have even discussed with some governors who are also fellow golfers. I told them that the only thing we can do to surprise golfers in Nigeria is to bring Tiger Woods. Even if he is not going to play, let him just come and greet golfers and go away. But I am sure that when he comes and come to Jos he will want to play because of the good weather,” he said. Lalong said by next year there would a ceremony to honour the first golf club in the state, which is Rayfield golf club. He appreciated the leaders leaders who built golf to enviable height in the state and also congratulated the all the winners, adding that they are upgrading golf facilities in the state. The governor said he brought a car to be won, in addition to the prizes, but no one came close to winning the car, and he would therefore take back his car. According to him, he introduced just one or two commissioners to golf, but that now almost all his cabinet members are playing golf today because of its health and other benefits. Meanwhile, Sunday Olapade from Mic Com Golf Club emerged winner in the professional regular tour category, while Victor Onaigbe emerged winner in the professional senior tour category. Similarly, Ezekiel Ibrahim of Rayfied Golf Club Jos emerged winner in the amateur category.