A member of the House of Representatives representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 2,  Ganiyu Johnson, has inaugurated a monthly meeting tagged: “Meet Your Member of Parliament”. He promised to foster effective representation, urging the people to give him periodic feedback. The event, which took place at the constituency office of the lawmaker, attracted huge crowd, including artisans and peasant, who came to discuss with the lawmakers. The programme was unprecedented, as no lawmaker in recent times had organised such event, except for the occasional town hall meetings. The unique feature of the meeting was that Johnson spoke personally to a large number of constituents, who took turn to talk about some of their challenges. Johnson, attended to some of their needs and gave concrete promises on how to empower them. The former Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure in Lagos State said the essence of programme was to bond with the constituents in fulfillment of the campaign promises he made to the constituents.  Johnson said: “During my camping, I promised to make myself accessible to my people and that is why the inauguration and subsequently, we would be having this meeting on a monthly basis. It is a way of having intimacy with my people so that I would know their challenges and how to probably solve some of the problems. “During the campaign, some of them said that they hoped that I would not disappear to Abuja after I win the election. I told them that I would be accessible to them and that is why I have decided to keep to the promises and dedicate the last Saturday of every month to meet with them. He added: “This is not a party programme as you can see. Everyone here as a member of the constituency is welcome; People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Action Democratic Party (ADP), All Progressives Congress (APC) and even those that are not partisan,” he said. Kayode Salami, a constituent, said the constituency never had it so good, stressing that it was the first time, she would personally discuss with a lawmaker. She said that God had blessed the constituency with a representative that had shown so much empathy to his people. 