A night of suspense and celebration it was last Tuesday for the cream in the automobile industry as their brands compete for the best of awards of the year. The A-list guests thronged Eko Hotels, Victoria Island in Lagos for the annual automobile awards organised by the Nigeria Auto Journalists Association (NAJA). Tagged NAJA Awards, the event had in attendance the Team Lead of the Presidential Committee on Clearing of Apapa Port and Access Roads, Comrade Kayode Opeifa, Mr Ifeanyi Agwu, Chairman BKG Exhibitions, organisers of the Lagos and Abuja Auto Fair, the representatives of the Director- General of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), and the Corp Marshal of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) as well as some Chief Executive Officers and other stakeholders in the nation’s automotive sector. Toyota Corolla beats Hyundai Tucson and GAC GS4, a Chinese brand to win the biggest award of the night – the Car of The Year (COTY) Award. In the Luxury Car of The Year, Mercedes Benz S-class emerged winner ahead of BMW 7-series and Porsche Panamera, while the   Luxury SUV of The Year award went to Range Rover Autobiography. Mitsubishi L200 edged out the Toyota Hilux and Ford Ranger to clinch the Pick-Up of The Year Award while Mini Bus of the Year award went to the Toyota Hiace that competed with the Nissan Urvan and Mercedes Benz Sprinter buses. New Auto Lubricant of the year went to Motul, just as Ondo Motor Rally smiled home with the Motor Sports of The Year Award. Cars.45  was named as Online Auto Marketing Company of The Year; JAC, emerged the Most Improved Brand of The Year; even as Hyundai was named the Highest Selling Brand of The Year. While Mandilas was announced as the Auto Workshop of The Year and Changan as Fastest Growing Auto Brand of The Year, the  Honda Accord took home Executive Car of The Year award. NAJA Chairman Mike Ochoma, said that NAJA award is the most prestigious auto award in the country. He pointed out that the winners were arrived at, after an exhaustive, but objective evaluation of competitors in each of the categories He said that, the award winners which were arrived at through members’ votes, will among other things, provide consumers with sound, comparative information on vehicles that are new to the market. In his response, Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL) Managing Director Mr Kunle Ade-Ojo who received the COTY award in a presentation made by the duo of Comrade Opeifa and Agwu, thanked the organisers for putting up the award and for finding the Corolla worthy for the COTY award. Ade-Ojo promised that the company will continue to uphold the integrity which the company has been known for, while contributing positively for the Nigeria Auto industry. Also, Special recognitions were given to TNL Advert and Public Relations Manager Bukky Ogunnusi and Coscharis Group General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Abiona Babarinde. Managing Director/CEO of CFAO Motors Thomas Pelletier got the award of Most Innovative CEO of The Year.