Pertinence Limited, owners of ABC and VIP Gardens has rewarded some of its staffs and partners during this year’s Zero to Hero Christmas Edition. The company gave out six cars, household goods including, deep freezer, washing machine, gas cooker, pressure pot, DVD player and kitchen utensils. It also gave food items including rice, beans, oil, provisions and beverages. The ceremony held at Pertinence Place in Alimoso, Egbeda, Lagos State. The theme was, ‘How we grew our business from zero capital to a multi-million Dollar businesses. The firm’s Executive Director, Sunday Olorunsheyi, said the rewards were to show that the company is in business, adding that they are in business to be a foundation for other businesses to spring up and to create wealth for others through their people empowerment platforms. “We are in business for enterprise development and people development and we have been doing this since the last seven years. We have recorded over 500 people that have been made millionaire, over 50 people have been given cars and about 300 people have travelled to Dubai on all expenses paid trip among other things. We have also had over 5000 investors do business with us and from 2020 and above, we want to start giving out houses. He urged youths in the country to go into business with the mind set of looking out for how to create wealth for others, noting that with that they will be wealthy. “Think people and know that capital is not only about money; you need to identify the capital that works for you because there is reputation and trust capital. Position yourself to be trusted, and it will be easier to attract investors. Think of what you have that can help you get what you want, change your orientation and mind set,” he said. Another Executive Director, Wisdom Ezekiel, said the rewards was their way to celebrate and give back to people who have been productive. “This is in fulfilment of our promises at the beginning of the year, which symbolises our compliance and integrity as a company. Our aim as an organisation is to ensure that people who want to climb the ladder of success are given the opportunity from zero to hero.” He told those rewarded that the reward is to show that they did well and also that they can do better. “We expect them to do better than what they have done so that they will continue getting reward. We also expect more productivity and commitment.” He urged youths who intends to go into business to build intellectual capital, saying it is the ability to think; task one’s mind and come up with things from the mind that can be tapped into to deliver something worthwhile. “It is also crucial to build Idea or inspirational capital, strategise and leverage on relationships and ensure a good name. Young people must prevent social media distraction, peer pressure, ‘get rich quick’ and yohoo yahoo. Youths must know that hard work still pays, it is the path way to success and there is hard work in smart work. Those using hard work to work smart are getting more result,” he said. Pertinence Limited, General Manager, said a total of 40 people were rewarded “During the year a lot of people qualified for different awards; a total of 40 people were rewarded today with awards and several gifts. Six cars were given to administrative staffs and partners. There were different category of awards, including staff awards and cash awards. House hold goods, appliances, food stuffs and provisions were also given out. “The rewards were presented based on commitment and performance to our business which is targeted at enabling people to achieve their dreams,” he said. One of those rewarded, Omobolanle Olamide, a Consultant with Pertinence Limited said she was awarded a Toyota Camry car based on productivity in the year. “A target was set and I met it. I sold landed properties for the company throughout the year and with God on my side I was able to meet the target. I feel so great, happy, overwhelmed and exited” She said the company should expect more productivity, loyalty, strength, ideas and creativity from her next year. “Meeting a prospect with an unfavourable response was challenging but I did not allow that let me down. I joined the company about five years ago and working with the company has been fun and awesome. I have been to Dubai four times on all expenses paid trip. I have won several home appliances awards, travel award, commission and met people,” she said. Another awardee, Felix Osamoezu, Head of Stakeholders for the Pertinence Limited, who won a Hyundai car, said he feels elated working with the organisation. “What has happened today shows that the company represents itself as an enterprise development market. This rewards shows that there are opportunities here, we should keep up with the strength of working, be focused on the business and put in quality service to the system. I have been with the company for about six years and I have won several other things, including awards and home appliances. Since I joined this organisation, they have fulfilled all the promises they have made and I really appreciate them.  I thank the company for this recognition,” he said. Another beneficiary, Damilare Oshokoya, Lead Business Development Strategist for Pertinence Limited, thanked the company for awarding him an Acura SUV car. “I have contributed my quota to the company, I have gotten many other things and I say a big thank you to the company. It is obvious we have a long way to go. They should expect more of everything from me,” he said.