It was a black Boxing Day celebration for the Eli family and indigenes of Abayi village in Osisioma Local Government Area of Abia State as a man identified as Chimezie Eli reportedly stabbed his nephew, Samuel Chimere Eli, to death. Samuel,who was a final year student of the Abia State College of Education Technical Arochukwu (ASCETA) was killed death  on Boxing Day December 26. The incident,according to sources in the area, happened the midnight of that day after Samuel, who had returned to the village from his base in Umuahia, the state capital on December 24 night to spend the Christmas holidays with his family,quarrelled with the uncle’s girlfriend. While our reporter could not ascertain the nature of the quarrel that gave rise to the killing of the Samuel, who was said to be in his mid-20s, it was gathered that Chimezie allegedly  stabbed stabbed him while he was lying in his room after the matter seemed to have died down. Sources from  told our reporter that Samuel had rushed out of his father’s house after being stabbed in the chest by his uncle in an attempt to save his life, but died on the way to the hospital. “Their house is very close to the flyover. Samuel had a little misunderstanding with his uncle’s girlfriend. The uncle acted like someone who was manipulated. He used a knife to stab the guy in the chest and by the time he was taken to the hospital, he was declared dead. “The man has been arrested and is being detained at the Osisioma Police Division, but efforts are ongoing to transfer him to the State CID in Umuahia, the state capital. “The boy had started writing his final year project because he was due to  graduate next year’s March. “He thought that the matter he had with the uncle’s girlfriend earlier in the day had been settled not knowing that the man was still bearing grudge in mind. While he was sleeping, the uncle went into his room and stabbed him. “His brothers who should have helped him were not around, but he managed to help himself out of the compound with blood gushing out from the wound. By the time he got to the Osisioma junction, he had lost a lot of blood and when he was rushed to the hospital, they confirmed him dead. “The uncle is 45 years old  while the boy was 23. The boy was known for hard work and  gentle nature. But we don’t know what really happened between him and his uncle. “We learnt that the case is being transferred from Osisioma Police Station to the State CID for further investigation.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Geoffrey Ogbonna, said he was  yet to be briefed on the incident. A source in Abia State Government House confirmed his death, stating that they were shocked to learn about his death. Meanwhile, the State Coordinator, Abia Good Governance Network, Comrade Johnson Otuonye, has condemned the killing of Samuel, this is even as he charged the police to ensure that the killer of Samuel does not go unpunished. “The man has been arrested and is being detained at the Osisioma Police Division, but efforts are ongoing to transfer him to the State CID in Umuahia, the state capital. “The boy has started writing his final year project because he will be graduating next year’s March. “He thought that the matter he had with the uncle’s girlfriend earlier in the day has been settled not knowing that the man is still bearing grudge in mind. While he was sleeping, the uncle went into his room and stabbed him. “His brothers who should have helped him were not around, but he managed to help himself out of the compound with blood gushing out from the knife wound. By the time he got to the Osisioma junction, he has lost a lot of blood and when he was rushed to the hospital, they confirmed him dead. “The uncle is 45 years while the boy is 23 years. The boy is known for hard work and doesn’t look for people’s trouble. But what happened between him and his uncle’s fiancé is what we can’t tell. “We learnt that the case is being transferred from Osisioma Police Station to the State CID for further investigation.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Geoffrey Ogbonna said that he is yet to be briefed on the incident. A source in Abia State Government House that also markets Abia Rice (Osikapa Abia) with late Samuel confirmed his death, stating that they were shocked to learn about his death Meanwhile, the State Coordinator Abia Good Governance Network, Comrade Johnson Otuonye Has condemned the killing of Samuel, this is even as he charged the police to ensure that the killer of Samuel didn’t go unpunished.