Ebonyi and Anambra state have been ranked first and second respectively on the chart of  South East married women between ages of 15-49 who had experienced violence committed by their husbands or partners. This was contained in the 2018 Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS) report implemented by the National Population Commission (NpopC) in collaboration with the National malaria Elimination Programme (NMEP) of the Federal Ministry of Health. Presenting the Zonal key findings on Friday during the State Dissemination and Official lunch of the 2018 NDHS report, the Chief Administrative Officer, NpopC, Chibuzo Igboanusi, said the survey indicated that Anambra came second with 53 percent after Ebonyi state with 54 percent as the highest. He said the report further indicated that Imo, Abia and Enugu states trailed behind with 42, 39 and 23 respectively. On the percentage of women participation in decision making, Igboanusi however said the survey shown that Anambra led with 96 percent, while Abia came second with 82 percent. The governor of the state, Willie Obiano, while lunching the report, reiterated that the Survey was aimed at providing data for monitoring the population and health situation in Nigeria. Represented by the head of Service, Harry Udu, Obiano described the 2018 survey as exceptional in view of the additional data for malaria, anemia and genotype collected through blood samples. “The objective of the survey is to provide up to date information on fertility, family planning, maternal and child health, STIs/HIV/AIDS, Nutrition, domestic violence, etc in the country,” he said. Also speaking, the state coordinator, World health Organization (WHO) Dr. Chukwumuanya Igboekwu urged Ministeries, Departments and Agencies in the State to leverage on the documents for the delivery of quality health services to the people of the state in the next five years. “Since the NDHS started, the 2018 survey was very unique because it was characterized by unprecedented innovations such as genotype testing for sickle cell diseases and inclusion of disability module which allowed collection of data on disability status of Nigeria,” he said. Describing the health information contained in the survey as rich and enormous, Igboekwu, represented by Dr Okeke Edward, was hopeful that the 2023 edition would be better improved to accommodate other components of health indicators, including NCDs which he said had increased recently. Earlier, Federal Commissioner representing Anambra state in the commission, Mr Chidi Ezeoke said it was critical to have such a document for proper planning for sustainable development. He assured that the documents would be disseminated to the grassroots through the health workers, media and other relevant stakeholders.