A former federal legislator, Duro Meseko, extols the virtues of House of Representatives member James Faleke, who clocks 60 today.  As James Abiodun Faleke, member representing Ikeja Constituency in the House of Representatives clocks 60 today, it is pertinent to celebrate this icon who has in no small way written his name in gold in the political space of Nigeria and also in the hearts of  the less privileged who daily feel the warmth of his uncommon philanthropy. On a personal note, I got close to Hon Faleke popularly called ATM by his teeming admirers in Kogi State for his incredible cheerfulness with doling out cash to the masses during the Campaigns heralding the 2015 Governorship elections in Kogi State during which he was the running mate to the late Prince Abubakar Audu of the All Progressives Congress(APC). I was the Director, Media and Publicity of the Campaign then. That  was when I noticed that Kogi and indeed Nigeria is blessed with a patriotic son who is so passionate about the development of his home state and indeed his fatherland. It was also then that I noticed the “ATM” in him! The spirit of philanthropy in Hon Faleke is such that  no day passes for him not to spend millions of Naira on the stream of endless demands from the people and he would never complain, even if he knew some of the demands were not genuine! At some point in the past, I had had cause to ask him one day why he was so passionate about giving like that and he answered smiling” Duro, I won’t be able to sleep if I don’t help people”. On the political front, Hon Faleke, also fondly referred to as “Arole” or “JAF” by Lagosians has carved a niche for himself. Having secured the trust of the National Leader of APC and political Godfather of Lagos State,  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Faleke has grown in leaps and bounds on the political front. Born on December 25, 1959 at Ekinrin- Adde in Ijumu  Local Government Area of Kogi State, Hon Faleke attended the famous Abdul Azeez Memorial College, Okene where he bagged his O,Level Certificate in 1979. He proceeded to Kaduna Polytechnic and graduated with Upper Credit in HND  Purchasing and Supply Management in 1986. The grade earned him the Best Student,s Award. Not done, he moved on to Imo State University for his Masters in Business Administration and graduated in 2003. Immediately after he graduated from Kaduna Polytechnic in 1986, Faleke was posted to Lagos State for his mandatory National Youth Service Corps(NYSC) Programme and deployed to National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi. He was to start exhibiting the Community Developer  in him right from that point by providing waste bins to assist with waste management collection in Ikeja Local Government. The gesture fetched him a letter of commendation from the Local Government. From 1986 till date, Hon Faleke had worked as Purchasing Expediter at National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, Material Manager at Kayo Foods, Ilupeju, Lagos, Purchasing, Clearing and Distribution Manager at Tate Industries Plc and Purchasing Manager, Aluminum Manufacturing Company of Nigeria (ALUMCO) Plc, ending up as Commercial Manager at Crown Agents Ltd between 2000-2003. As fate would have it, Faleke was to be favored by the then Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the pioneer Executive Secretary of the newly created Ojodu Local Council Development Authority (LCDA) between November 2003-April 2004 after he was elected as the Executive Chairman of the LCDA in 2004. He performed meritoriously on the seat between 2004 till 2011 serving two terms and also becoming the Chairman of Conference 57, the body of LG Chairmen in Lagos State from 2006-2011. During this period, Hon Faleke also featured on the State,s Electoral Reform Committee as well as the Governor,s Advisory Committee.  In view of his outstanding performance, Faleke was voted as member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency in House of Representatives in 2011and  appointed Chairman, House Committee on Anti-Corruption, National Ethics and Values. An active member of the Green Chambers, Faleke proposed bills like the NYSC Act Amended  Bill which sought Life Insurance Coverage for Corps members, bill Prohibiting Sale and use of Military Uniforms to curb attendant risks and also the Motion on the need to shut over 1400 illegal border routes in the country to curb insurgency among others. Hon Faleke has since been re- elected back into the Green Chambers twice after this representing an unprecedented 3 Term record for a non-indigene in Lagos State. In his 2nd Term, he was Chairman, House Committee on Customs and Excise, and currently Chairman, House Committee on Finance. A great political mobilizer, Faleke was the Lagos State Coordinator for Bihari/Osinbajo Campaign from December 2014- April 2015. The result of his performance on that assignment might have been responsible for his nomination as Deputy Governorship Candidate of the APC in the 2015 Governorship elections in Kogi State  which the party won. It is on record that it was his efforts and contributions to the campaign that led the APC to price away Kogi West Senatorial District  from the PDP for the first time since 1999. Hon Faleke,s impact is felt across board irrespective of your ethnic background. So is his philanthropic reach. A case in point was the day he made a stop-over in Ayede Bunu Community in Kabba-Bunu Local Government, Kogi State and realized the community,s market space  was sited dangerously close to the roadside and with no single stall. He immediately asked the people if they wanted the market relocated so he could build them a modern market to which he got a resounding yes. Few days after, work began on the site, and within a month, a brand new market single handedly built by him for the community was ready for commissioning. Hon Faleke at 60 fruitful years, no doubt, still has a lot to offer his constituents in Lagos State and his people in Kogi State. Common let’s toast to this great icon!  