By our reporter Twenty-four professors are vying for the vice-chancellorship post at the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA).  However, sources claim the race is not fair to all contenders. As the battle for the post of Vice-Chancellor of Ondo State-owned Adekunle Ajasin University, Akugba-Akoko (AAUA) gathers steam, there is controversy over the fairness of the screening process. It was gathered that 24 professors are vying  to succeed Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun, whose tenure would end in January. A source within the Senate of the university said the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, has called for the cancellation of the screening after Governor Rotimi Akerodolu’s intervention. The source explained that some professors had been shortlisted while others were not included in the list of qualified applicants for the post. The screening was scheduled to hold last Thursday (November 28) but was put on hold.  The source claimed that the committee in-charge headed by the Pro-Chancellor had been acting suspiciously. “Pro-Chancellor has a candidate in mind which he wants to impose. The other candidates are kicking against this because it would be unfair to other candidates that are qualified for the post,” the source said. According to the source, some of the professors wrote a petition against the Pro-Chancellor which was why the screening process was stopped. While speaking to CAMPUSLIFE on phone, the Pro-Chancellor said there was a change and the screening date had to be shifted. Abayomi explained that the change of date was due to unforeseen circumstances. “There is a change of plan because of unforeseeable circumstances. For this, the screening has been shifted. A new date will be sent to all the candidates. The reason for the postponement of the screening is that there are some unforeseen circumstances,” Abayomi said.  He denied allegations that some candidates were dropped from the shortlist based on zoning and districts within the state. Abayomi, who has been accused of tampering with the process, said all applications would be reviewed and the candidates would be notified of a new date for screening. He also debunked the allegation of zoning, noting that there was nothing of such and the best candidate could come from anywhere. He said: “Concerning zoning, there is no issue. We are just looking for the best. The best can come from anywhere. We have a total of 24 professors vying for the post, and these professors are not only members of AAUA but from all over. “We have advanced in shortlisting. Concerning the shortlisted applicants, for now, we are still working on it. We are reviewing all the applications and we are making progress. “Mr. Governor is aware of this issue and all shortlisted applicants are aware of the new development, and all we are working on is to get the best for the university.” However, sources also revealed that Akeredolu was unhappy about the controversies in the screening process. The Pro-Chancellor maintained that the controversy over the screening process would not affect the institution’s convocation this week since Prof Ajibefun’s tenure would not expire until January 2020. Submission of application for the position closed on August 9, 2019. Among the applicants for the post are Prof. Olugbenga Ige, current Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Administration; Prof. Victor Olumekun, current Director of Centre for Research and Development; Prof. Yemisi Adebowale, immediate past Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academics, Prof. Dayo Oludoro of Faculty of Arts; Prof. Afolabi Ayonigbara, Prof. C I. Daramola, among others. Others in the race from other universities service are Prof. Temiloluwa Ologunorisa from Federal University of Technology, Akure and former Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Osun State University; Prof. Kayode Akeredolu from Lagos State University and currently on sabbatical as a member of the Governing Council in Ajasin Varsity amongst others. One Prof. Adetula from the United States is also interested in the position. 