Our Reporter  The affirmation of the victory of Governor Seyi Makinde in the March 9, 2019 governorship election by the Supreme Court on Wednesday has been described as a triumph for justice and the power of the people to democratically determine their leaders. Special Adviser on Strategy and Political Matters, Babatunde Oduyoye, who stated this in reaction to the ruling of the apex court, said that the Supreme Court must be commended for its apparent courage and forthrightness in the face of undue pressure by certain elements to pervert the cause of justice in the election petition matter. Oduyoye, who stated this in Abuja, shortly after the Supreme Court delivered its judgment, which validated the decision of the Election Petition Tribunal to uphold the election of Governor Makinde, declared that the ruling of the apex court further affirmed the fact that the court remained the last hope of the people. Oduyoye said the unanimous judgment by the Supreme Court “confirmed that technicalities cannot take the place of the people’s power and that only the ballot box can determine the fate of political office holders”. His words: “We are happy that the Supreme Court has affirmed what we knew all along – that the people of Oyo State overwhelmingly voted for Governor Seyi Makinde in a free, fair and credible election on March 9, 2019, when they elected him with over 515,621.  “Today, the shameless voyage embarked upon by peddlers of lies and desperation in Oyo State politics came to a decisive end with the unanimous judgment of the Supreme Court, which validated the election of Governor Seyi Makinde. “That judgment, in which all seven justices of the apex court agreed with the ruling of the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Oyo State and the minority judgment of the Court of Appeal, that Governor Makinde had, indeed, won the election and that the All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to prove its case, is a triumph of justice and fairness. It is a vindication of the people, who voted for massively for Governor Makinde. “Now that the people have won, as Governor Makinde’s victory is a victory for the good people of Oyo State, who have been enjoying good times under his leadership, the governor is prepared to continue to deliver on his promises to the electorate. “The governor deeply appreciates the courage of the judiciary, the support of the Oyo State electorate and everyone who took part in the struggle to ensure that justice and fairness prevailed in the face of the pressures mounted by the opposition politicians to snatch the mandate given to him. “Governor Makinde has, by the show of solidarity and support, been encouraged to continue to deliver excellent service to his state and its people.”