 Driving to work on Tuesday morning where I got stuck in the maddening gridlock along Gbagada (kudos to the Lagos State government for massive work on the roads) in the Centre of Excellence, my phone rang. I normally don’t answer calls while driving. To ease my frustration, I made sure my hear piece was on. I looked at the name on the phone and roared; ‘’Big fish in Nigeria’s football calling?’’ Not any administrator wishing to plead his case or threatening court actions over stories, before you start guessing who must have called this ‘troublesome’ man or like some others have said, this ‘controversial fellow’. Back to the caller, who isn’t a frivolous person. ‘’Ade!’’ he exclaimed. ‘’Something is troubling my mind. And I’m not sure what exactly is wrong with me. But deep inside me I’m unhappy with the state of our football.  I’m frustrated,’’ he said. There was dead silence inside my car. Nothing was heard from my caller. ‘’Hello,’’ I screamed because such drop calls could be our usual troublesome poor network. ‘’I’m here Ade, go on talking. I stumbled on some vital information about what’s going with our league board and I almost collapsed. I got information from one unhappy fellow among those in the league.  The figures were mind-boggling, making to tarry with caution with them, but raise the alarm for the sports ministry to intervene to arrest the rot. ‘Not true,’ I told my discussant, especially as the story was coming from a disgruntled person, who would surely have embellished the scoops to suit his ‘devilish’ intentions. The discussant in his husky voice came alive and said; ‘’ You know I’m not a frivolous person, so please go and check or are you frustrated by the system in place for our football as I am? I kept quiet; this time there was quick movement on Gbagada Road, the confused traffic setting caused by ‘mad’ bus drivers, motor cyclists and keke irritants squeezing into small gaps on the queue like wharf rats. I opted to speak with my discussant using an ear piece. The law allows that. My caller continued his talk on how to reform Nigeria soccer, stressing that his visits to several countries have left him in on the lurch, wondering if all that the country’s soccer shows are tales of sharp practices, witch hunt and general apathy towards developing the game. He concluded that the game has been governed by people who think through their pockets than to leave their footprints on the sands of time. Are these views all that our soccer represents? I don’t like the bandwagon effect. What sticks out like a sore thumb among grumblers of the systems in our soccer, is that they were once part of the NFF or NFA. If indeed they did what they now advocate for during their tenures, the Glasshouse would have been a model of how to administer soccer to the world. Not so here. I would rather say that we have not been courageous enough to change the instrument governing the game – Decree 101 (can you imagine the archaic law used here? Yet, we expect movement forward. It won’t happen.) for a more vibrant rulebook that would throw open the process of getting competent Nigerians to administer the game guided by rules which work in other climes except ours. In fact, the rulebook shouldn’t be authored by benefactors of the fraudulent Decree 101, since they would include vexatious laws that would further entrench them in the system. The collegiate system which Decree 101 polluted our soccer ensures that the same people rule our game, no matter how many times we conduct fresh elections. The only difference with each electoral exercise is the change of the members’ names. The new rulebook must be subjected to scrutiny to expunge laws which are inimical to the development of the game. The criteria for applying to govern our soccer must be stiff, with emphasis on such people’s pedigree in business and/or experience in running the game at different levels. This setting where some people run the game for over three decades stunts growth in such places. It is important that tenures are defined with dates. For the administrative personnel at the Glasshouse, those recruited must pass through a transparent process which should throw up only the best among the equals to run the place.  Such appointments should be tenured. Such durations of employment must be respected. The major reason for the crises at the Glasshouse is the presence of staff who have each spent three terms of a four-year tenured job, which raises eyebrows. Staff, who have spent 12 years running our football, should respectfully step aside to allow for fresh ideas. A four-yearly contract with all personnel at NFF, except those who emerged through elections will reduce the high level of suspicion from the public. Indeed, most of the feud that has engulfed the Glasshouse have come from those who were there before. If staff know that after two terms of four years each they are ineligible to aspire for office at the Glasshouse, there will be less turmoil in the place. If the entry qualifications for staff into the Glasshouse is raised to level only cerebral people are recruited, lickspittles who have been troubling the country’s soccer space would back off. Need I say  the NFF is filled with many jobless people who constitute a nuisance in the place? They are the people who fuel the crises which inhibit good work ethics. The board should prune its staff to effectiveness. The present board, should in moving to their new secretariat, the Sunny Dankaro House in Abuja, prune staff. They should also merge some of the offices for effective management. Sometimes I wonder if the NFF chieftains understand what it means to computerise the business of the federation. The analogue structures in the federation encourages sharp practices, which underlines the bad image it has outside. The first  step towards reducing corruption will be for all transactions in football to be transparent and it should start from now. Transparency should be the new mantra, if the NFF and its affiliates want to do the business of soccer to rake in millions like in other climes. Transparency can only be attained, if the activities of the federation are subjected to routine checks, while those found culpable are made to face the wrath of the law, no matter whose ox is gored. No country’s football thrives without the domestic league, which in Nigeria is in a shambles. It is equally shocking that the domestic game is run by four people. I hate to use the word – cabal. Little wonder they couldn’t handle the critical aspects of the Super Sports’ live coverage of the game. If they knew their onions, they should have known that Super Sports were right in asking for some reprieve, knowing that the market rate of the dollar when the deal was struck years ago had hit the roof, making it wise for them to negotiate downward. Fair marketing argument, if you ask me. What these four unwise men did, was to reject what was offered, and sadly replaced with it nothing. In other climes, the league board would have been sacked. Not here. The board, or the four unwise men are becoming more powerful, forgetting that all leagues in the world rely on proceeds from television rights , which are mouth-watering. The league board would have been sacked elsewhere for not telling us how much it is worth yearly. It is a shame that nobody has asked the league board what it earns from inter and intra club transfers of our players. Players’ transfers are structured to monitor them and relate with those who have issues with the foreign clubs. It is with such indices that countries evolve their football calendars to be in sync with other 211 nations affiliated to FIFA. Soccer in Nigeria will soar if we tailor it to business, not the patronage to lackeys that currently is across the country. The advantages Nigeria will derive from running soccer like the business that it is (the way saner countries have been doing for decades), are endless. For instance, a 2019 report by EY’s Economic and Social Impact Assessment said the English Premier League and its clubs supported close to 100,000 jobs and contributed £7.6 billion to the United Kingdom (UK)’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In 2009, the rugby series between the Springboks and the British & Irish Lions boosted the South Africa economy by almost R1.5billion, a study commissioned by SA Rugby revealed. This converts to nearly N36billion. In just one sport alone. The public interest in the ten-match series, and the impact of the arrival of 37 000 visitors from Britain and Ireland, generated R1,47bn in direct and indirect value to the travel and tourism gross domestic product (GDP) of South Africa. The six-week tour produced close to a tenth (8,95%) of South Africa’s annual tourism GDP (based on 2008 figures) said the survey prepared by Octagon Marketing in conjunction with Kamilla-SA Sport and Tourism Consultancy and Umcebisi Business Advisors. 10 years on, why can’t Nigeria, with Africa’s biggest economy and population replicate this success in, football, the king of sports? Why, for instance, isn’t any of our clubs listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange?