 Embattled President of the Athletes Federation of Nigeria (AFN)  Ibrahim Shehu Gusau has expressed sadness with the crisis rocking the federation, saying he was open to  dialogue in order to  resolve the impasse ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Speaking at a press briefing in Lagos yesterday, Gusau said  the unfortunate  crisis could affect Nigeria’s participation at  the Tokyo Olympics which is some   six months away. “It’s sad with the development at the AFN. Everything we have done has been with the best interests of athletes in mind and an innate desire to develop athletics in Nigeria,” Gusau said. “We believe that without athletes, there will be no sports and without sports, there will be no Sports Federation. “  We believed and still believe that whatever grievances our colleagues have, can be handled by the Congress, which is the highest decision making arm of our Federation,” he noted. Gusau said he had been transparent  enough since he  took over the AFN Presidency hence he submitted  himself to relevant authorities  when he was accused of financial mismanagement following the reported  USD150, 000 missing  grants from World Athletics ( formerly IAAF) upon assumption of office. “I was accused of mismanaging the funds and in keeping with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to accountability and transparency, I submitted myself to the relevant agencies for investigation.  The individual reports exonerated me from any culpability but raised questions, which the agencies are diligently pursuing,” he explained. Meanwhile, Gusau has called on  the leadership  of the  Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to remain neutral in order to resolve  the crisis befuddling the AFN. He said: “It is common knowledge that the AFN is having misunderstandings, especially within the board of the federation. It is also obvious that the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports has taken sides by issuing a press statement endorsing the purported board meeting held on Tuesday, December 3, in Abuja.  If this is not interference, one wonders what is it?” Reacting to some of the issues raised by the ministry of sports which claimed that Gusau actually convened the Abuja meeting, the president said he cannot call for a meeting and likewise be absent from such.   