Onyedi Ojiabor and Gbenga Omokhunu, Abuja Followers of the detained leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, on Wednesday demanded the immediate release of their leader without further delay. The followers insisted that there was no doubt that El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeinat, were more qualified for immediate release from detention than Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) and Omoyele Sowore, who were freed on Tuesday. The Federal Government on Tuesday ordered the release of Col. Dasuki and convener of Revolution Now, Sowore. Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who directed the Department of State Services (DSS) to release Dasuki and Sowore explained that the order was in compliance to court ruling which granted the duo bail. The Public Relations Office of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim Musa, who spoke on behalf of the sect members noted that although they were happy for the release of Dasuki and Sowore, their expectation was El-Zakzaky would have been released along side the two. Musa said that right thinking Nigerians who considered the reason given by the Attorney General for the release of Dasuki and Sowore, would have noticed that Shieikh El-Zakzaky was more qualified to be released because there is a valid court ruling that he should be released. He added that El-Zakzaky’s Children are patiently waiting for the return of their father in line with the court order. He noted that they therefore asking and demanding the immediate release of our leader in the interest of justice and rule of law. He said that there is a subsisting valid court order for the release of El-Zakzaky. Musa said, “The release of the Sheikh was our expectation. It was our expectation also that Sheikh El-Zakzaky would be released alongside Sowore and Dasuki. But we are happy for Dasuki and Sowore and we are praying that God will also pave way for our leader, Sheikh El- Zakzaky to be released. “This is because if you look at what the Minister said is the reason for releasing Dasuki and Sowore, you will notice that Shieikh El-Zakzaky is more qualified to be released because there is a valid court ruling that he should be released. “Even at that, it is only that they took the charges against him to Kaduna State just to subvert the ruling of the high court in Abuja. “We are praying and working on his freedom. “The media has tried actually in order to ensure that El-Zakzaky is released. Because right after the December 2015 saga, the media has been giving us coverage in almost all our activities but you know that of Sowore is also aided by the international pressure. “America has also talked about the release of El-Zakzaky but we do not know what went wrong and what the government is planning. “The children of our leader (El-Zakzaky) are hopeful that their father will also be released. “He was visited last week. Since the news of the release of Dasuki and Sowore broke, he has not felt bad, but he and his followers believe that what happened to us has been decreed by Allah. “Everything has its own time. Whether they like it or not the time to release him will come. Like I said, Sheikh El-Zakzaky is happy over the release of Dasuki and Sowore. “We are going to keep on mounting pressure on government to release our leader. In a recent interview with the BBC, the minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation said Sheikh El-Zakzaky’s case is different. And that Federal Government will not interfere in a case involving A state government. “We are going to keep on talking to the press, and those who have ears of government and those will assist us to ensure his release.”