By Kelvin Osa Okunbor  The Federal Government is monitoring the importation of remotely piloted aircraft, otherwise known as drones, because they  pose security threats when operated unregulated in the Nigerian airspace. The  Rector,  Nigerian College of Aviation Technology  (NCAT), Captain Abdulsalami Mohammed, made this known on Wednesday. He said the Office of the National Security Adviser  (NSA)  was carrying out  surveillance on  various types of drones brought into the country to ensure such highly volatile equipment are not used to compromise safety and threaten national  security. Speaking in  an interview in Lagos,  the Rector said  the  foremost aviation  training institution in Nigeria would have since commenced training for operators of drones, but  it was awaiting approval from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority  (NCAA) after clearance from the office of the National Security Adiviser (NSA) on the  template to be adopted for the training. He said there was need for operators of drones to  understand the limitations of the equipment before NCAT designs a template for training of operators of drones. Mohammed said: “The College would have started training for operators of drones, but had to subject the programme to on – going investigations by the office of the NSA, which, based on security considerations, was monitoring the importation of drones  into Nigeria. “There is need for operators of drones to know the limitations of their operations. This will ensure they fit into the template. These are the areas the proposed training will focus on to enable them carry out such operations safely and securely.   But, we await NCAA’s approval to advance it to the next level.” grammes, the first of its kind in Africa, will benefit workers of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria  (FAAN ) and other aeronautical and emergency management agencies. He, however, said because of budgetary constraints, the College had to put on hold its order for 20 Diamond trainer aircraft . Mohammed said the aircraft order has been broken into batches as funds were made available for the College. Currently, he said 10 trainer aircraft were serviceable in the College’s fleet to enable it actualize its mandate as an International Civil Aviation Organization  (ICAO ) regional training centre of excellence.  He spoke of plans by NCAT to collaborate with other tertiary institutions,  including Ahmadu Bello University  (ABU),Zaria;  Kaduna State University  and the newly inaugurated University of Transportation in Katsina State . He said NCAT will continue to enhance its capacity in human capacity development through off – site training programmes intended to beef up industry experience with windows for On the Job Training and exchange programmes. Mohammed said the college will not relent in signing Memorandum of Understanding with airlines to facilitate capacity building and practical exposure for its graduate students in the fields of aircraft piloting , aircraft  techicians and engineers , traffic controllers as well as flight dispatchers. He said the college would explore opportunities for enhancing its internally generated revenue by expanding aerodrome runway, design more off- site training programmes that meets aviation industry needs and other initiatives. On unemployment of young graduate pilots, the NCAT Rector attributed inadequate flying hours as a major factor militating against such professionals from securing jobs in commercial airlines. He said :” The problem of pliots’ unemployment is about experience.  They need flying hours to meet the conditions of insurance.  ” I believe general aviation will take care of this. I encourage young pilots Togo to general aviation to build flying hours . That will make them marketable and employable . This is because flying requires professionalism and proficiency.  The college recognises this problem.”  Mohammed said the college has introduced multi -jet training programmes to enable young pilots attain specialisation,  which in aviation par Lance is described as type rating.