A physically-challenged student of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Ibrahim Oladeji Tijani, has described himself as a ‘gift from God’. Oladeji, who is a second year English Literature student speaks with SODIQ MOJIBOLA on World’s International Day of Disabled Persons.  How did you become physically challenged? I would have loved to tell you but it is one lengthy and emotionally draining experience I will not be able to share with you now. However, let me say I was given birth to like this and that’s more of the reason I see myself not as a disabled person but a gift from God. Who is a disabled person to you? In 2017, I wrote an article on the question you just asked-’Who is a disabled?’ When I was younger, I did ask myself if I was in anyway different from others; but the answer often eluded me. However, all I felt within me was that I could do almost or even all what others who are not physically challenged could do. I could roll a tyre. I participate in various sporting activities such as football, high jump, long jump and even fight my mates when they intended to cheat me. Then I told myself: “I am not disabled’. I remember a trip I embarked on from Oshodi to Iyana Ipaja. Inside the bus, I saw almost 50 beggars. About 40 of them were physically fit while 10 others had one physical challenge or the other. Even when I was younger, people did want to give me money. They cared less about my dressing and even the fact that, sometimes, I looked better than their children and I never asked or begged for money. I realised collecting arms belonged to the disabled. I heard many stories of women that got rid of their children, just because they were born disabled. But my mum never did that because she believed I could be greater than what she even hoped for. I had sleepless nights over this for sometime; wondering who a disabled is. I realised that a state of hopelessness could make one disabled, and not when one suffers physical deformity. Could you please explain? It’s easier to become a failure when one is disabled. A failed state of mind is a disability and that is what I see as being disabled. As far as I’m concerned, a physically-challenged person must stay strong and care less about your posture or what is missing in you. That automatically makes you more than a complete being.” What is your biggest challenge? My challenge is doubt! Self doubt is a weakness that can strike anyone at anytime. Nonetheless, I never allow it to get the better of me because, somehow, God gives me courage to face whatever I am going through at any point in time. What has been your greatest motivations in life? One of my mentors, Mr. Fashomi Bamidele, is a veteran but now a retired journalist. He once commented on my article: ‘Who is disabled?’ He said:  ‘You are down right? Barriers of life are really of the mind. It is worse to be diabled in the mind. Those in such situations won’t be able to crush barriers and lift themselves up over life’s hurdles.’ This comment really motivated and encouraged me. What is the most valuable gift you ever received for your kind of person? I won an honorary award at a competition, Nasfat (NASGA) Game 2016. As a primary school student of As-siddiq international school, I won the special student of the year (session) 2005/2006. Besides, I was given a free ticket to participate in a rap battle, mash up contest in 2017. I came third in that contest. Apart from this, I don’t take gifts given to me out of pity.  How do you feel when people see you as a disabled? I feel humiliated and embarrassed. At that moment, I try to prove them wrong, make them see that I am able and can do things I feel like doing. Have you ever been mocked or embarrassed because of your condition? Countless times, and mostly by kids. But I always feel they’re ignorant and sometimes curious. The intelligent ones amongst them won’t make jest of me, but ask questions out of curiosity, like: “Where’s your leg?’. And when I was younger, I was stubborn, so when I fought and beat somebody, they would retaliate by making jest of me. But to me, it was nothing to worry or feel sad about so I would just laugh it off. How do you feel when you people in your shoes begging for alms? Initially, I used to see them as lazy people who looked down on themselves and refused to be better. But now, I first try to blame where they come from in terms of background. Sometimes it’s not their fault. It’s what they are trained to do and they aren’t given much of a chance to show what they can offer. So, we don’t expect a disabled to work as a bricklayer. However, I also feel they can learn shoe making and stop depending on people who may not be so strong financially. So most times, I think they just don’t want to change. Do you work or have any vocational skill? Well there was a time hustled to sell television antenna from 12pm till 7pm to earn sometimes just N500  daily. I recall I once met a guy who approached me when he saw me selling antenna in traffic and told me he would like to join. He said he couldn’t be begging for alms while I was working. I only did that job for about six months or thereabout in 2015. What would you like to say to people, especially the physically challenged? First, we must understand that being disabled is not actually what people see, it’s what you think of yourself. When you think you can’t, you’re disabled. If you are physically challenged, but mentally strong, you have everything.  Disability isn’t physical, it’s mental.