 Ogun State Governor Prince Dapo Abiodun, on Wednesday told the new Head of Service in the state, Mrs. Amope Ajibola Chokor, that her appointment, like all others he had made, was a product of due diligence, merit and careful consideration. The governor said more than anything, the new head of service should thank God. While inaugurating Chokor as the state’s 18th head of service, the governor said: “I want you to consider this appointment has an act of God. You have been chosen out of many others who are equally qualified and possess the required skills and experience to steer the ship of the Ogun State public service.” The governor noted that the state “has a legacy of excellence to protect in the public service. Let me remind you that you are the standard bearer of the pride legacy left behind for us by your predecessors. I charge you to take further the pride legacy of the public service to greater height in particular, I charge you to attain and improve on the exceptional records of the past female Heads of Service.” He charged her to lead and inspire the public service that would engender the required trust and confidence of the private sector for cooperation and collaboration, adding that it was her duty to provide leadership that would spur the public service to greater productivity, calling on her to bring her vast wealth of experience to bear while leading the service. Abiodun assured civil and public servants in the state that his administration would continue to accord them their status as important stakeholders, who have contributed to the modest achievements recorded in the last six months. The governor stated that public servants had been the arrow head of the successful implementation of Building the State Together agenda. He said: “Let me use this occasion to affirm the important status of the state civil and public servants in the successful implementation of our building our state together agenda. The dedication, commitment and professionalism that our public servants have exhibited are key ingredients that have guaranteed the success of building our future together. “Therefore, in appreciation, our administration would continue to accord all our civil and public servants all their status as important stakeholders in the building our future together. As a matter of fact, we will continue to ensure prompt payment of salaries and allowances. We are also working to clear the backlog of promotions, leave bonuses and other allowances. “I charge our workers to be more dedicated and professional in the discharge of their duties and together, we will achieve the Ogun State of our dreams.” Speaking earlier, the Head of Service, Mrs. Amope Chokor, said the public service occupied a strategic place in actualising goals and objectives of the political class, adding that it was through the service that visions and aspirations of government would be translated into concrete terms for the people. While calling on civil servants to join her not only to maintain the enviable record of excellence, but to take it to a higher pedestal, the head of service appreciated the governor for extending the inclusive policy to the bureaucrats to enable them to contribute to moving the state forward. The Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi Obalanlege, in his remarks, said the Awori people in the state had always felt marginalised and had been clamouring for more opportunities to serve the state at higher levels He commended the state government for finding their daughter worthy for the position.