John Ofikhenua, Abuja  The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on Tuesday threw more light on why President Muhammadu Buhari relieved the present Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru of the responsibility. The corporation in a statement that the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu issued in Abuja on Tuesday said that Baru is due for statutorily retire on July 7, 2019, on the attainment of 60 years retirement age. President Muhammadu Buhari made the appointment alongside those of seven new Chief Operating Officers in the early hours of Tuesday. The NNPC statement which broke the news said that “President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Mr. Mele Kolo Kyari as the new Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).” Until his new appointment, Kyari, a geologist, was Group General Manager, Crude Oil Marketing Division of NNPC and also doubled, since 13th May, 2018, as Nigeria’s National Representative to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC. But Ughamadu said that President Buhari has directed that the New GMD and the newly appointed Chief Operating Officers work with the current occupiers of the various offices till 7th July, 2019 towards a smooth transition on 8th July 2019 when their appointments would take effect to ensure a smooth transition. However, the appointment of Mr. Farouk Garba Said (North West), who is replacing a retiring Chief Operating Officer, is effective from 28th June, 2019. According to the statement, “The newly appointed Chief Operating Officers are: 1. Mr. Roland Onoriode Ewubare (South-South) – Chief Operating Officer, Upstream 2. Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu (North Central) – Chief Operating Officer Refining and Petrochemicals 3. Engr. Yusuf Usman (North East) – Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power 4. Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu (South East), Chief Operating Officer Ventures 5. Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya (North West) – Chief Financial Officer 6. Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji (South West) – Chief Operating Officer, Downstream and 7. Mr. Farouk Garba Said (North West) – Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services.” The outgoing NNPC GMD, Baru, was said to have congratulated his would-be successor and the other new appointees yesterday. Kyari is a quintessential crude oil marketer with prerequisite certification and outfield pedigree in Petroleum Economics and crude oil and gas trading. In the last 27 years he had traversed the entire value chain of the Petroleum Industry, with exceptional records of performance. Under his watch, the Crude Oil Marketing Division has recorded noticeable transformation in the management and sales of the various Nigeria’s crude oil grades via an infusion of transparency and automation of the processes, the release by the NNPC spokesperson, stated. Kyari would be the 19th Group Managing Director of the National Oil Company. According to him, Roland Onoriode Ewubare who hails from the South-South region of the Country and is appointed Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, was until his new appointment Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investments and Management Services, a Corporate Services (NAPIMS) unit of the corporation headquartered in Lagos. Before his NAPIMS’ appointment, he was Managing Director of the Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL), a seismic data acquisition company of NNPC based in Benin. The statement noted that Engr. Mustapha Yinusa Yakubu hails from North Central region of the Country and is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Refining and Petrochemicals. Until his new appointment he was the Managing Director of National Engineering and Technical Company Limited (NETCO). Continuing, NNPC said that “Engr. Yusuf Usman hails from North East and is Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power. Until his new appointment, Engr. Usman was Senior Technical Assistant to the Group Managing Director of the corporation. “Ms. Lawrencia Nwadiabuwa Ndupu, from South East, is newly appointed as Chief Operating Officer, Ventures. She, until her new appointment was the Group General Manager, NNPC Oil Field Services, established to provide technical services to players in the Industry. “Mr. Mr. Umar Isa Ajiya, from North West region of the Country who holds the new position of Chief Financial Officer, was until his recent appointment, the Managing Director of Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) of NNPC, a Downstream arm of the corporation. Prior to holding the position as the Managing Director of PPMC, he was the corporation’s Group General Manager Corporate Planning and Strategy (CP&S). “Engr. Adeyemi Adetunji, who is from the South West region of the Country, holding the new appointment of Chief Operating Officer, Downstream, was until his new appointment the Managing Director of NNPC Retail Limited, a Downstream Marketing Company of NNPC. Prior to his position as the MD of the Downstream Marketing Company, he was General Manager, Transformation Department, a Think-thank unit of the corporation. “Mr. Farouk Garba Said who hails from North West and holds the new position of Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services, was Group General Manager, Engineering and Technology Division of NNPC. Mr. Said would be taking over from the present occupier of the office who retires statutorily on 28th June, 2019. “The new appointees have been directed to work with the current occupiers of the various offices by President Buhari till 7th July, 2019 to ensure a smooth transition on 8th July 2019 when their appointments would take effect.”