Sir: I wish to draw your attention to the deplorable state of virtually all the major roads in our beloved Niger State. The roads have not only become death-traps, they are now labelled ‘killer abattoirs’. It is now a suicidal mission for motorists to ply the crater-riddled and gully-infested roads. They are highways many commuters terribly dread with passion. Yes, I mean the popular Bida-Minna, Mokwa-Tegina, Minna-Suleja, and Suleja-Lambatta-Bida roads, among other notable intra-state roads. Not too long ago, federal lawmakers from the state decried the appalling state of road infrastructure particularly the ‘Trunk A’ roads which have all become death traps. This, they noted have led to avoidable road mishaps, resulting in deaths and fatal injuries. The members added that the ugly situation has also made road users vulnerable to terror-inducing gunmen, aside the bad roads causing enormous damage to vehicles. According to the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), about 147 people lost their lives and 915 persons were injured in 361 road accidents in the state, between January and September 2016. The FRSC equally added that 197 deaths were recorded in no fewer than 516 road crashes in 2017. It also revealed that last year alone, 476 crashes claimed 289 lives. These are frightening statistics to say the least. One recalls that angry Minna youths had in October paralyzed economic activities in the town during which they demanded an urgent rehabilitation of the Suleja-Minna road. The protesters completely barricaded the road as they prevented vehicles from moving in and out of Minna. They carried placards with various inscriptions as they chanted anti-government slogans to express their displeasure. Barely two months after the protest march, it seems little or zero progress has been recorded in terms of properly, and permanently fixing the roads. The roads are still nightmares for motorists and commuters.  Dear Governor, it is pointless to assert that having a functional road infrastructure will be a catalyst for the economic transformation of Niger State. Already, commercial bus operators are incurring unnecessary expenditure (from their meagre income) in servicing their vehicles damaged by the bad roads. While it is gratifying that you restricted heavy duty trucks and haulages vehicles from plying some of the roads, it is imperative that the state government evolve an effective mechanism to evaluate ongoing rehabilitation works on the spoilt and damaged roads. This will ensure that shoddy works are not done and quality compromised by the contractors. Finally, you led a high-powered delegation of eminent Niger State’s personalities to visit President Muhammadu Buhari sometime in November 2018. If I may recall, an appeal to the federal government to speedily rehabilitate the Trunk A roads in the state was the major item on the card during that epochal solidarity visit to the Villa. But it is now a year after, and we all know what the federal roads have transformed into. It is not the kind of transformation the people of Niger State truly covet. We want the roads to get a deserving and comprehensive facelift. You may wish to remind the president of his assurance and pledge to fix federal government-owned roads in the state. But it is equally pertinent that all the Trunk B roads are earnestly fixed by your administration. You stand to get the credit not only now, but also in the distant future. And not only by history, but by posterity.  