The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi has rededicated himself to the course of Iwo development through a youth empowerment scheme he recently put in place in his Osun State hometown. Speaking at a one- day Employability and Entrepreneurship Summit, he declared that developing potentials in Nigerian youths was one of the reasons he struggled for the throne of his forefathers. He then announced a N2m startup fund for the empowerment, imploring beneficiaries to judiciously use the privilege to shape their future and benefit the country just as he tasked Nigerian youths to engineer innovative ideas capable of challenging old orders. The summit was organized by Arise and Impact Nigerian Youths Initiative in partnership with Uniplan Integrated Services. According to Oluwo “Each beneficiary will be given N100,000 to support their business. Ten out of the participants at this summit will be selected while the rest 10 will be distributed to the three local governments of Iwoland- Iwo, Ayedire and Ola Oluwa. This is just the tip of the iceberg. We will test run the youth empowerment with N2m for a start while we float the scheme fully next year” He also called on the youth to show interest in a new innovative working system different from the old ways, also calling them to start thinking digitally in order to be relevant in the new world being shaped by technology. ‘Unfortunately, the feedback from some of the youths is not encouraging. As a traditional ruler, I have led several struggles against traditional corruption but to my amazement, I see few youths still condemning such move. Service to humanity is my watchword. I left Paradise in Canada to contribute better to humanity in my source. But at that, no one appreciates it but God does. And one with God is majority” “I want to appeal to the youth for a change of mind. The system we met on ground is not working. We will stop complaining the day youths are ready to challenge the old styles on ground,” he said. Oluwo lauded the organizer of the program, Mr. Mutallub Yusuf Olagold for committing his resources to lift youth out of mental and physical poverty. “OlaGold has demonstrated the generation of youths I have in mind with the energy he has shown in youth development. That is why he is close to the palace. Iwo youths should see him as one of them ready to add value to the town,” he said.