by Muyiwa Lucas  Ahead of the planned disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) to indigenous ship owners in the first quarter of 2020, a marine stakeholder, Emmanuel Ilori, an engineer, has advised the Federal Government not to disburse the Fund as being mooted. Rather, he wants the fund used to establish a maritime development bank. Ilori argued that the fund would not give the expected value if disbursed. “Disbursing the fund to individuals would barely purchase a reasonable number of vessels and then there would be the issue of who to consider in the sharing. CVFF is a good source of funding. But, how many vessels will $200 million buy? Who will benefit from that purchase? How are we going to use that $200 million to develop the maritime industry? It is capital intensive,” Ilori said. He said many areas of the sector that required funding, asking: ‘’Once the $200 million is depleted, what happens?’’ He said this necessitated the new position on how best to invest the $200 million so that it could grow. ”One of the areas is to set up a maritime development bank, and use the fund as seed money to develop the industry so that people who have sound bankable maritime businesses can access the fund,” he said. He contended that a maritime development bank give loans to investors to upgrade shipyards, where specific crafts could be built, thus creating more jobs opportunities. “So, we will not only be developing ship purchase, the need for us to invest in ship repair, then, other areas of need that we can develop the industry instead of dishing out the money to a few lucky people.  “That is the area we need to look out for, because we are not the only nation that has developed its industry using the maritime development bank route. So, it is something we need to look at again and say how we use that fund constructively to develop the industry. “And I don’t think sharing it among a few people is the best way. I think the Minister raised this in the past that he is not inclined to share the money among people. Let us talk of the Ship Acquisition Fund of the past given to people. How were they able to recover it?  It went down the drain.’’ He further argued that a maritime development bank would drive investment interests, making it less difficult to have ship-building companies to set up in Nigeria. “What sort of ships do we need within the Nigerian waters? If we can determine the vessel needs of Nigeria, you can then use that fund though a development arrangement, to say we will invest this money in developing; so number of vessels to be built in Nigeria, invite the ship building company to come and set up in Nigeria. These are the number of  vessels that we need for trade in our waters, “ he said. “That is why we are saying we need to revisit the issue of access to funding. That is why we are advocating that if you use the CVFF as the seed money for the maritime development bank where people can access fund at a very low rate, it will not only attract local investors, it will attract foreigners investors to invest in Nigeria,” he added. 