SIR: Experts in education and technology have continually said that the major problem in the oil and gas and other engineering sectors is the lacking human resource to drive growth. GE’s 2017 skills gap report on Nigeria’s science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) sectors revealed a consensus from CEOs and HR managers that there is not enough for the skills they require. Research has shown that the challenge starts at the primary and secondary levels of education. Students lose interest in STEM courses for fear of failing from difficulty in learning and limited financial access. In Nigeria, the average expected years of schooling is 10 years, covering only primary and secondary education. About 15 million children are out of school, primarily because their parents cannot afford the tuition, amongst other things. Primary school completion rate, according to data available from Takwimu Africa, is currently at 66%.  Nigeria’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) takes note of the challenges with the education system, especially limited access to and quality of basic education, limited provision of STEM education; inadequate facilities at all levels of education; and lack of structured and quality programmes for technical education. These issues, if not urgently resolved, may limit Nigeria’s capacity to actively participate in the future of work. The challenges of Nigeria’s education system seem enormous and almost impossible to completely address, and the woes of poor governance in Nigeria have been the topic of many debates and discussions. While valid, these debates have taken our attention of the more important issue –removing the obstacles that make our society less habitable for future generations – a feat that can only be achieved through collaboration for sustainable development. With the right partnerships, we can eliminate the barriers to quality education and prepare the next generation for the future of work. Across Nigeria, development actors are working tirelessly to bridge the gaps across critical areas of education. Five Cowries Initiative is one of such programmes deploying a different approach to addressing education needs, in order to change this narrative. The Nigeria-focused education programme is working in partnership with Teach For Nigeria (TFN) and other partners, within the private and public sectors, to introduce creative, arts-based teaching methods and resources to improve school attendance and outcomes, for participation in STEM courses. Children are taught that learning is fun, and they can have their own voice, which is important for increased self-esteem and decision making. The Five Cowries Initiative supports 2,000 children each year, in collaboration with its other dedicated partners locally and internationally, to deliver programmes that improve education and engage children with issues of social and global impact – from conservation, citizenship, and health, to migration, new technologies and pollution. In partnership with Forte Oil, Five Cowries is using the arts to improve learning in the sciences. The partners commissioned ‘My Story of Energy’ early in 2019 to encourage STEM participation. Through the visual arts, students learn the basics of science and its import for day-to-day activities within nature and the environment. Through the project, Forte Oil and Five Cowries provide teachers with on-the-job training to help introduce arts-based teaching methodologies, while also providing the materials needed, and which the schools cannot afford to provide. Participating children from public schools in Lagos State, take part in science projects, and are challenged to showcase their learnings through artworks painted on the walls of Forte Oil’s petroleum stations. At the end of the programmes, the students receive certificates as marks of achievement, which they can show to parents to encourage willingness and support for their children’s continued education. While this seems peculiar as an instance, the principle remains the same – collective effort that leverages existing technology and resources, is critical for solving developmental issues. Without individual or organisational partnerships, we may be unable to reach the hard-to-reach areas or achieve our objectives, talk-less of surpassing them. As a result, while private partnerships cannot and should not be a replacement for governance, it can be a stop-gap to provide some of the much needed resources required to give children the opportunity at an education.