By Tajudeen Adebanjo Mandilas Group Limited and the retail arm of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, (NNPC), NNPC Retail Limited, have jointly opened a Quick-Service Centre in Abuja. The partnership which is set to transform the automotive aftermarket, will lead to the opening of more of such centres in other parts of the country. During the inauguration of the centres at the NNPC Mega Petrol Station on Olusegun Obasanjo Way, Abuja, Mandilas pledged to provide the best of after-sales service and maintenance for vehicle owners in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). NNPC top officials said Mandilas was selected for the partnership after a rigorous research for a top notch auto after-sales service provider. Managing Director of NNPC Retail Limited, Sir Billy Okoye, urged Nigerians to enjoy the efficient services offered by the centre. Okoye said the centre is strategically located to provide quick and efficient service for automobile users. Group Chief Executive Officer of the Mandilas Group Ltd, Ola Debayo-Doherty, said NNPC couldn’t have had a better partner for the centres than Mandilas. “We are continuously evolving to meet current market demands and to provide quality service to Nigerians. Our commitment to Nigeria is unrivalled. In approximately 70 years in the automobile industry through the ups and downs of the macro and micro business dynamics, we remain resolute in our belief in Nigeria and Nigerians,” he said. He hailed NNPC for launching a range of lubricants, which he said would provide options to the market. NNPC Retail Limited General Manager, Sales and Marketing Mrs Elizabeth Aliyuda described the opening of the centre as a special moment, assuring that the facility would be replicated in all the NNPC Retail Stations across the country. “It was a whole lot of research, a whole lot of brainstorming, a whole lot of documentation because we have to make sure that we abide by all rules, regulations, and ensure due diligence is carried out. We have to ensure that we get a top-notch company that provides such services and at the end of the day we were able to select Mandilas as our partner,” she said.