Chairman  of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission Abike Dabiri-Erewa and President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick have urged other sports stars to emulate Asisat Oshoala by giving back to the society. Oshoala through her foundation, Asisat Oshoala Foundation organizes School Girls Football Clinic tagged “#football4girls on yearly basis to help girls in Lagos Secondary Schools to achieve their dreams of engaging in football as a career. In a chat with NationSport during the final of the 5th edition held at the Campos Mini Stadium on Tuesday, both Dabiri and Pinnick heaped praises on the three-time African Women’s Footballer of the Year for her charity gesture. “This event is about reaching out to young girls in the society, it’s about making our girls grow up be focused, determined, make a success of themselves. So it is about giving back and it is about touching lives, it is about sharing, it’s about caring, it’s about making a difference in the lives of innocent children. Any of these children can become whatever they can be who knows from what Asisat is doing here. “So what Asisat Oshoala Foundation is doing, she is touching lives in her own way. It is important for us to support her and ensure that we all, through one way or the other make an impact in the lives of young girls. If all of us do a little thing or do one thing or the other in wherever we found ourselves, the world will be better place to live in,” Dabiri said. On his part,  the NFF  President  said: “I must commend Oshoala for bringing up this beautiful idea to encourage the girl/child to play football. “When she called me to attend the finals, I could not resist and out of my busy schedule I ensured that I attended the event. “Playing a celebrity game alongside Super Eagles players like Odion Ighalo, Victor Osimhen, Omeruo, Awaziem and Asisat gives me joy. “As the Oshoala Football Championship progresses, I believe it will attract more teams to participate in the female league. The NFF will not relent in supporting the development of Nigerian football in any capacity,” he said. The event sponsored by Rev Mother Esther Ajayi, a sports philanthropist and the General Overseer of Love of Christ Generation Church, UK, saw Oshoala lead Team Nigerian Footballers that featured the likes of Odion Ighalo, Victor Osimhen, Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem, Ramon Azeez and Aron Samuel against Team Naija Celebrities side which paraded the likes of Alabi Pasuma, Small Doctor, Nedu, Ruggedy Baba, amongst others. Team Nigeria won 4-1. Earlier, young female footballers from Oshoala’s foundation defeated a selected side of players from the Nigeria Women’s Professional League 3-2. Three players emerged as the brightest stars from the #Football4GirlsClinic: Obuchi Chidinma (MVP), Olabiyi Alaba (2nd) and Salami Iseoluwa (3rd).