By Sam Ibok and Fanny John  No fewer than 100 secondary school pupils in Eastern Obolo, in Akwa Ibom State, have been exposed to leadership training, career counseling and human relations skills, thanks to a leadership and career summit organised by the National Association of Eastern Obolo Students, (NAEOS) University of Uyo (UNIUYO) chapter. The summit with theme: “The Future of Obolo Students” held at the Obolo hall complex. It was attended by pupils from Heroes International Academy, Okoromboho; Government Comprehensive Secondary School, Amadaka; and Community Secondary School, Iko Town among others. Addressing the participants, one of the resource persons, Joseph Oromene, advised them to be determined as it is one of the keys that drives academic success. “If you are not determined to study, you will not come out successful in school”, he said. Oromene cited his younger brother, Williamson, as an example of a determined person. He said Williamson always spoke about being a lawyer during his secondary school days and is one today through determination and hard work. Another resource person, Dr. Ebenezer Oke, counseled students both in secondary and tertiary to make judicious use of the platform they have to touch others remarkably and also shun vices, so their dreams are not aborted. To succeed, Ebenezer said they must write their dream, set goals and back same with action. “An enterprising mind goes after what he believes in and does not wait until it comes to him,” he said. The programme coordinator and Chairman planning committee, David Enoch, a final year Engineering student, said the initiative was borne out of the need to nurture future leaders who would have the leadership skills to influence others positively in their schools. “We targeted secondary schools because we believe they have one idea or the other that is why NAEOS is ready to help them develop their skills,” he said.  The event also featured drama, paper presentations,  quiz and debate competitions. One of the participants, Florence Adasi of Community Secondary School, Iko Town told CAMPUS LIFE that the seminar had inspired her to be focused. “I learned to believe in myself, and that nobody can tell me I cannot make it in life.  I also learned that key to success is believing in oneself and being hardworking and determined,” she said. Other dignitaries at the event were the Deputy House Leader of Eastern Obolo 6th Legislative Assembly and Chairman House Committee on Education, Owen Dedimus; NAEOS Worldwide SU President, Comr. Clarke Joel, Akwa Poly SU president Mr. Moses Etem. Uniuyo SU President, Clarkson, Aqua Josephine Ntene; Nsanawaji Ukafia, a barrister; student activist, Ebenezer Oke; Princess Nkoyo Marcus and Mr. Barth Ojoko, a lecturer. High point of the event was the presentation of certificates to participants.