Most often, people blame the police for ineptitude. However, PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU and OSAGIE OTABOR examine the hurdles before police personnel, which include underfunding. In Benin City, Edo State, a Divisional Police Officer (DPO) at this year’s leadership summit organised by the Leading Rights Ambassador Initiative (LRAI) dropped a bombshell when he revealed that he and his colleagues received N66, 000 annually as imprest to work. With the N66, 000 per year, he is expected to fuel the division’s patrol vehicles, service and repair, buy stationeries and toiletries, give IPOs money for investigations, including money for transportation, pay for the typing and printing of charge sheets and transport suspects to court for arraignment, among other recurring expenses. The DPO asked the gathering whether the police were expected to perform magic with such paltry fund at their disposal. He stated clearly that for effective policing, the country must be willing to give the agency what was needed to perform the herculean task assigned to them. “How much is N66, 000 for DPOs to be spending annually? How do I run a full police division with N66, 000? How do I buy fuel to pursue criminals? They don’t supply us uniforms. No money for the case file. Why will such a system work? We must change our attitude. “We are still doing analogue policing. We manage to make do with what we have to fight criminals,” he said. In many instances, Nigerians have condemned police personnel for not responding timely to distress calls, especially during robbery attacks at dusk. Also, tales of police harassment and extortion of citizens daily flood media spaces with its attendant public outrage and call for a complete overhaul of the Nigeria Police Force. Interestingly, not many have bothered to find out how these police officers are able to perform their duties despite being grossly underfunded. Checks by our Correspondent revealed that virtually all the police divisions in Lagos State have not received the N40, 000 quarterly imprests since Police Commissioner Fatai Owoseni (rtd) was transferred out of Lagos Command. While some of the divisions had 30 litres of fuel weekly from the fuel dumb, a quantity barely enough to do their job for a day, others have solely relied on goodwill from rich individuals, including gas station owners in their domain to power their operational vehicles. “It is funny how Nigerians keep shouting police are corrupt, police stations are dirty and smelling and that we are incompetent. It is hypocritical because as a DPO, I know the stress I go through. We are not funded. The last time I received imprest of N40, 000 per quarter was under CP Owoseni. Imagine being given N40, 000 to run a police division with about 200 personnel? What can that amount do?  “Can N40, 000 fuel our patrol vehicles and motorcycles for one week? Can it finance the maintenance of these vehicles? Will it be able to cater for investigation and transportation within the state? What of transportation cost for arrest or investigation outside the state? Have you asked how we get money to buy stationeries, toiletries and other basic things? What of money to take suspects to a court which is a daily routine?  “Most times, Investigating Police Officers and DPOs, especially those in rural areas, have to pay certain bills from their pockets. Have you seen why corruption is far from over from the police? Some other divisions are fortunate to have good Nigerians in their domains and these people usually help finance some of these needs. The sad thing here is that the police cannot even investigate these people or entertain complaints against them when they go wrong because these are their financiers,” said a Lagos DPO. In Edo North, a top police officer said they don’t get the needed support to checkmate criminals which made them resort to seeking help from hunters and local vigilance groups. The officer stated that most police outposts do not have vehicles to patrol difficult terrains in the area. Another DPO confirmed what his colleague said about getting little money as imprest annually. “It is our love for the job that is helping us. Can you imagine getting 15 calls for help at a time and only one vehicle is available and no personnel on ground? Nigerians should understand our difficult situation. We cannot speak out but we expect the citizens to know these things and fight our cause. “Those human rights people are supposed to investigate these things and then pressure the government to fund the police adequately. Look at the obsolete guns we are using to fight robbers and kidnappers. Do you know how many policemen are killed weekly? What is the salary of an average policeman and what will his family get when he dies in active duty?” he lamented.  Funding challenge The piteous funding of the police was brought to light by former Inspector-General of Police (IG) Ibrahim Idris (rtd) when he advocated for the passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill, as it then was. Idris had made similar remarks during the 2018 Budget defence at the National Assembly when he asked for at least N200 billion yearly for investigation alone. He bore all on the funding inadequacies of the police which have made it almost impossible for the service to carry out its daily routine of securing lives and properties in the country. As of today, Investigating Police Officers (IPOs) buy statement forms, bail bonds, feed suspects and pay all running costs as pertaining to their cases from their pockets despite the signing into law of the Police Reform/Trust Fund Law by President Muhammadu Buhari in April. This, no doubt, has fuelled the practice of collecting money from complainants for investigation or charging suspects for bail. It is also common knowledge that most furniture, electronic devices, including fans and Air Conditioners at Divisional Police Stations are exhibits gotten from suspects which explains why they usually have numbers written on them. The funding issue has also grossly affected the welfare, equipping and training of policemen. A recent visit to the Police College Ikeja showed a facility in urgent need of rehabilitation. Findings revealed that cops in training, especially those in the music school, were being made to pay a certain amount of money for the repair of a borehole and other maintenance costs. Most of the buildings in the school were begging for renovation just like their friends at other police barracks were a handful of personnel sleep inside kitchens. Some others sleep in patrol vehicles at police station due to lack of accommodation for 28 days money in lieu of inter-state transfers. All these degrading treatments have forced policemen to resort to taking bribes, a practice that would sadly continue unless urgent steps were taken to address the funding shortfalls.  Training shortfalls Former Lagos State Commissioner of Police Zubairu Muazu told The Nation that there was the need for adequate training and retraining of policemen as a way of getting desired reforms. This need has become urgent giving that the current training curriculum of the police seems outdated. With the realities of guerilla warfare and ethnoreligious tensions that have the propensity of consuming the country, policemen believe it was time-wasting to assemble them at a training institution for refresher courses only to teach them theories. Findings reveal that the cops loath going for training because they are made to spend money they do not have at the institutions. “The training system is archaic. The lecturers are not motivated because their posting to the institutions is considered as punishment. Practicals are not thought and most of the lecturers see those coming for courses as avenues to make money for themselves. “Trainees have to contribute money for lecturers, buy souvenirs, repair borehole or other facilities despite that training allowances which should ordinarily be paid aren’t paid. So, when policemen are asked to go for training, they rather decline and seek juicy postings where they can make money for themselves. “If a policeman is sick, there is no money for medical treatment. They have to do voluntary donations and most hospitals once they see it is police personnel, they do not like taking them because they see them as liabilities. All these need to change and it is only adequate funding that can solve it,” a policeman said. Officers who spoke to our correspondent in confidence said the only solution to corruption in the police was the implementation of the new salary structure and the Police Trust Fund Law. The law addresses issues of Information Communication Technology (ICT), patrol/operational vehicles, crafts and other facilities, provision of a full complement of arms/ammunition, riot control equipment, protective gears, armoury and firing/shooting range. Others include forensic technology/scientific aids for investigation; operational/administrative logistics; community policing project/public relations; construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of infrastructure/facilities for capacity building (training), as well as rehabilitation/construction of stations, barracks and personnel welfare.