Majority of them were not born with any physical challenge, but fate played a fast one on them. As a result of this, they encounter myriad of challenges, ranging from stigmatisation, to discrimination, job loss, failed relationships… to mention a few. But, like everyone else, they have hopes and dreams. Most importantly, they have chosen not to beg but work with their hands, while some are even employers of labour. OMOLARA AKINTOYE recently had an encounter with these group of people who purposed in their heart to make a lemonade out of the lemon life threw at them. Quite a handful of them were not naturally born cripple, but became so as a result of measles, while others claimed their situations were offshoots of spiritual attacks. Only one said he was born cripple. However, they are united in determination to live a fulfilled life and are, as this reporter found out during a recent interaction with them, making headways in spite of everything. It was the occasion of the monthly meeting of the Joint Association of People with Disabilities for Physically Challenged, JONAPIC, at Ayantuga Health Centre, Mushin, Lagos. First to speak was Mrs. Sarumi Joseph, formerly a clerical officer at the News Department of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Victoria Island Lagos. She is a seasoned television personality, having featured in different popular NTA drama series, including Second Chance, Village Headmaster et al. She lived a fun-filled life… until diabetes dealt her a tough fate. “I bled for five years just like the woman with issue of blood,” she began. “I used piece of cloth, towel and pad to pack myself to prevent the blood from staining my pant. I went to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, where a doctor confirmed that I was diabetic and advised that I went for a surgery. “The day the surgery was to be performed, they could not get my hospital file and I was in pains.  I was rushed to the Mints Hospital at Sabo, Yaba and the surgery was successful. The third day, I was discharged from the hospital but it didn’t end there. God instructed me to set up an organisation to cater for fellow disabled people. “I had to sell my Volvo car and my husband had to sell his own car too – because we had no other means of raising funds. I needed two artificial legs, with each costing  N1.5m, to enable me to go back to my normal job, I am an actress.” Joseph however has a complaint about the society. “There is a way people look at us as beggars. Sometimes when you ask for help, the mere look you get speaks a lot. Instead of making us happy, they literally remind us of our condition.” “I received a call from former Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola’s sister. I could not tell her that I was on admission, I told her that I was flying down from Abuja and asked her to pay the money into my account. I sneaked out of the hospital to meet with her. I joined a group, Joint Association of People with Disabilities (JONAPIC) for physically challenged at Mushin; it is a chapter under the Mushin  Local Government and its parent body is Lagos State Government for Disability Affairs (LASODA), funded by the Lagos State Government.” “We go to churches and social gatherings to entertain guests by singing and praising God, and the guests, amazed at the way people who have no legs and arms praise  God, consciously convert to serving Christ.” Asked what they want the state government to do for them, Mrs. Joseph said, “We want the state government to help us with automatic wheel chairs that we can operate with ease to aid our movement. Our challenges differ; they should help us with other walking aids. The government should integrate us in the society; we need a land where we can build a home for ourselves. We need a bus that can be taking us for soul winning evangelism. Like I said, I need artificial legs to go about my normal actress job. Each artificial leg costs N1.5m. Jimoh Aminu, a cobbler from Otun Local Government Area of Ekiti State’s story is different. “I had chicken pox at the age of five, which led to my disability. What my parents did was to enrol me in a vocational centre to learn the art of shoe making before I relocated to Lagos in 1983.” But Aminu is faced with a bit of issues. “I do not have major tools to work with, and this is affecting my trade because I am losing customers. Most times, I have to go to another cobbler to do finishing on my jobs and I have to pay. As a result, I make little or no gain to assist my wife’s business. I also need a well-equipped shop – I currently work from my small room, so I can work better and be able to support my wife, pay my children’s school fees, house rents and other basic needs.” Taofeek Odusanya, also a cobbler’s case is however exceptional. He has never walked in his entire life. He was crippled right from his  mother’s womb. “I was born cripple. My mother told me I was always crawling with my stomach and chest  on the bare  floor. I was taken to the Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos,  all to no avail. Odusanya, who presently lives in Mushin, Lagos, spoke of how young girls have been taking advantage of his situation, pretending to fall  in love with him, all in a bid to milk him of his hard-earned money. He told The Nation of how he fell in love with a secondary school girl, who turned him into a meal ticket but eventually broke his heart, aborting his pregnancy and ditching him. “She wept bitterly that her parents would not accept the pregnancy; she threatened to terminate the pregnancy; I begged her not to and she insisted that her parents would kill her if she kept the pregnancy. She eventually aborted it. She saved up the money I was giving her for feeding to terminate it.” That was one of several other cases. “Presently,” Odusanya lamented, “I don’t have any girl as a lover.” Oluwole Odunusi, also a cobbler, got married in 2015 but the union is yet to be blessed with a child. Even though he never went to school, Odunusi, an indigene of Ago-Iwoye in Ogun State, is fortunate to land a teacher as wife. “I would ever remain grateful to God for sending a woman, a teacher that loves me the way I am. I was not born cripple; I was one year old when I had Polio. My mother told me that I was given an injection which made me cripple.” “I am a shoe cobbler, I make new shoes at the frontage of my house and I thank God that I get my daily bread from there. I thank God that my wife was sent by God. If there is money to equip a shop for me, ideas will flow to create new shoe designs.” Mr. Jeje Samson, a tricycle (Keke NAPEP) operator had his one leg amputated after a motor accident that almost took his life on April 16, 2018 along Oshodi-Agege Motor Road. “When the accident occurred, I was in a state of coma for more than a month. Till date, I cannot explain how it happened but I give God the glory that I am alive. I was a driver among the civil servants that were disengaged from service with the Federal Ministry of Works & Housing in 2004, when Olusegun Obasanjo was the head of state. Eventually I was taken to the Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, where my leg was amputated.” Tobi Igbomani’s case is strange in the sense that she claimed her mother told her that a strange wind caused her disability. “I was three years old when I visited my grandmother in the village in Oyo State. I was playing and the wind blew and I fell down. My parents did everything possible to make me walk to no avail. Later, I was absorbed into a rehabilitation centre in Ibadan for one year to acquire a vocational skill. After my graduation, there was no money to establish my choice skill, so I started selling provisions. I got married to a security man from Akwa Ibom State and we have three children. I am happily married to my husband.  The last birth I had was through a Caesarian Section. I spent a lot of money and had nothing left to restart my business.” Oluwatoyin Ashafa, a resident of Igando in Lagos, said her case was spiritual, “I am a teacher in a private school. I also double as a computer operator. My mother told me that when I was born, my right leg was in a curved shape and I was taken to Igbobi hospital. The first time I had surgery, it was stitched; but as soon as I arrived home, the stitches started to loosen. This continued each time I went to the hospital and came back home. After the last surgery, I could not walk with my leg and I had to support myself  with a  walking stick. Also, I could not stand for long.” Asked about her marital status, she said, “When men ask my hand in marriage, after a while they will not show up again. At a point, one of the men impregnated me but on hearing the news that I was pregnant, he ran away and I never saw him again. Unfortunately, the baby was stillborn. Another man came into my life, he presented me to his mother, but his mother reprimanded him for bringing home a woman with one and half legs.” According to Pius Abiodun, a native of Badagry, a reckless commercial driver caused him to lose his two legs. A bit reluctant to tell his story, Abiodun said, “I had the accident six years ago along Mushin-Oshodi Expressway. I was doing something at the back of a bus when a commercial bus came from nowhere and hit me from behind. I had my two legs amputated at Igbobi. As a family man, I still drive a commercial bus specially designed for drivers with disabilities. But I need a commercial bus of my own to sustain my family. I implore the government to support me. If the government decides to give a target under the period in which I will complete the repayment, fine. ” The Nation also had a chat with 29-year-old Taiye and Kehinde Ayelangbe, a set of twin, who have refused to part ways in spite of the challenges of one. Kehinde spoke on behalf of Taiye, her sister because her tongue is twisted and couldn’t speak with clarity. “We are twin sisters. She is Taiye and I am Kehinde Ayelangbe from Kwara State. I am married with two children. Our mother told us that after giving birth to us, Taiye suddenly fell ill and was taken to Igbobi  hospital and she was on admission for 15 years. “Mother has tried, she has spent so much, even sold her landed property and now age is not on her side. I am left to look after her. We need help from well-meaning Nigerians. My sister sells drinks and sachet water but she needs a refrigerator.” I lost my hand to a Guillotine machine – JONAPIC chairman When The Nation visited Ayantuga Health Centre at Mushin, where Joint Association of People with Disabilities for Physically Challenged, JONAPIC, holds its monthly meeting, there were over 40 members in attendance. Its chairman, Adeleke Timothy Williams, a civil servant and principal accountant with the Lagos State government said also shared his story. “I was less than 13 years when I had the accident on January 30 1980. I was a printer; there was an electrical problem that developed within the Guillotine machine or cutting machine and the wire had issues, triggering the blade to trap both the plank and my hands. I tried to remove my hand but couldn’t and it eventually cut my hand into two.” On how he met his wife, “We worked together with the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority. She was a new staff in my office, I was supposed to pay her and I did not, because we had some issues. She went to call other people to beg me and I eventually paid her. Later, she left the place and we lost contact. One day, I was driving I ran into her. We got talking, exchanged pleasantries and started chatting on phone. We developed feelings for each other and we got married over ten years ago. ” I told her that any time I visited female friends, they usually cut of relationship with me; but she vowed to marry me despite my challenges. She said if her parents opposed out relationship, she would run away. “When the accident occurred, washing my clothes became a problem, you know you could not wash with one hand. My siblings who promised to assist me did not. What I did was to start practising to use one hand to wash my clothes and I was able to do it, which amazed them. “After the accident, I went back to school to obtain a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accounting from the Lagos State Polytechnic in 2002.” Speaking on his re-integration, Williams said, “I must give thanks to former governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. When our case for placement got to him, he asked them, ‘Do you want them to go and be begging on the road? He ordered that we should be assigned to the radio room. I was in the radio room for eight years before I was redeployed to Account Department because of my Accounting background. “We have an NGO, JONAPIC that is funded by the state govt; we have LASCODA  at the national level and we have at each local government. On his advice to parents with physically challenged children, Williams said, “Don’t be shy and keep them in the house, bring them out. We have over 40 members and I have been chairman for 5 or 7 years. We do not encourage our members to beg for alms on the streets. When we see any of us begging on the street, we talk to them to stop, that it is not a good thing.”