LEGENDARY musician, Innocent Idibia widely known as 2Baba and Mavin Records artiste, Crayon last Sunday thrilled guests at the Teen Africa TV Launch which was held at the Balmoral Hall, Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. It was a night of excitement for the hundreds of teenagers and parents at the event as they danced on and on to the hit songs of the visibly excited 2baba. Speaking at the launch, the founder of Teen Africa, filmmaker, Charles Novia, noted that the idea is to have a channel where young people can be themselves. “The young people have been given too much of the background position,” said Novia. “So, with Teen Africa we are trying to bring them to the fore. The young talented 13 to 19years old now have their own station where they can express themselves, they can be who they want to be on the channel. “It has never been done before in Africa. There is no station on the world that has dedicated to teenagers in the way that we are doing our own. So it is a self belief push for the Teenagers in Africa, the Teenagers in Nigeria, because we are going to be all over the world. It hasn’t been easy but we thank God for partners who came in.” Novia urged that the youths must be invested on. “This is the generation of the youths. Anybody who is wise should know that they should invest in the youth. If we don’t invest our money, time and resources in them we will not have a country in few years. They younger people needs to be giving direction which is what the older generation has not done over the years and I think that has to change. “What we are doing with this is to give the young people a sense of belonging and give you the identity you need to get into the world space and be who you are on a creative platform”. After his electrifying performance, Crayon said: “It feels good seeing young people vibing to your song, I feel blessed. I am out here to inspire as much people as I can.” One of the attendees of the launch, Efe Oweibu, expressed happiness concerning launch of the channel. “I feel happy because at least they are noticing teenagers in Nigeria,” the teenager said. “It’s a really good opportunity for talented teenagers to come out and show their talent.”