To the plush and magnificent pile of reclusive billionaire, Mike Adenuga, somewhere in the exclusive parts of magically opulent Lagos (address deliberately withheld) for an eightieth post-birthday luncheon in honour of General Alani Ipoola Akinrinade, Civil War titan and former Chief of Defence Staff last Saturday. Exquisitely compered by the ever pleasant and ever delectable Bimbo Oloyede, it was a night of great music, great singing, memorable tributes and remarkable reminiscences showcasing everything that is good and admirable about this country. And it comes with a hint of Nigerian exceptionalism. How can a country that has thrown up this remarkable array of talents, this dazzling collection of gifted people, go under just like this? This being a season of charity and good will, it is perhaps appropriate to end this rather turbulent and untoward year on a note of optimism about the Nigerian project. It is not looking good. A sizeable proportion of our ruling elite still do not have a concept of the nation-state and what it means to nurture, to build and to grow a nation from birth to full maturity. They are stuck in a pre-modern time-warp which has scant regard for individual liberty or the right of the citizenry to freedom of association and independence of aspiration as long as such do not threaten the integrity of the state. This is why Nigeria has become a permanent toddler; stranded in the limbo of perpetual infancy. But however deplorable and despondent a situation is, there is no substitute for hope and cautious optimism even if your mind tells you that based on compelling evidence on ground, it will all end in naught. As events of that evening unfolded, you get a sense that for so many people who have invested considerable emotional, psychic, social, political and financial capital in the country, failure cannot be contemplated. The man of the evening is one of these. Being of a more combustible and impatient temperament, one may often disagree with his political diffidence and reluctance to cause offence until he is driven to the wall. But after many hours of pounding the table and pondering over the Nigerian project, after many risky trips with him, you cannot but come to the conclusion that General Alani Akinrinade is an exemplary Nigerian nationalist and a sterling Yoruba patriot. On a trip to Bayelsa State, a sober and introspective Akinrinade told me that having trekked most of the way from a particular spot to Port Harcourt as federal troops began their final assault on the city, he could still smell the flora and fauna of the place fifty one years after. Several decades after, the mangrove forest still appeared sullen and forbidding. You can then imagine the deep hurt in Akinrinade’s eyes when some misguided scoundrels among his own ethnic nationality and other wild men of the cyber-jungle accuse him of compromise with the current status quo and complicity with evil. Having fought with troops as a military commander and without troops as a freedom fighter, Akinrinade knows the difference and will not be goaded or stampeded into rash action by those who will flee at the mere sight of a catapult. Akinrinade’s personal history and his story contain more than enough redemptive tropes for an authentic and genuinely liberating pan-Nigerian project. A humane, humble and self-effacing career soldier by all accounts and testimonies, he will never be caught glorifying war or romanticising martial derring-do. In his houses both in Lagos and his Yakoyo village, you can hardly find any war memorabilia or mementoes of military mayhem. His humility and self-erasure astound. Yet Akinrinade is regarded with awe in military circles and treated with near-mythical reverence by those who adjudge him as arguably the most cerebral and strategically-gifted senior officer thrown up by the civil war. The Biafran High Command, having watched videos of his calm and daring during operations, concluded that he was a Chinese mercenary recruited to give sinews and synergy to Nigerian military operations. In temperament and professional disposition, Akinrinade often recalls Omar Bradley, the great American Five-star general and quiet hero of the Second World War, who is regarded in many quarters as the best American general of the Second World War. Diffident and unprepossessing, Bradley’s aversion for bloodshed and gore is legendary. Like Omar Bradley, Akinrinade believes that if ever there should be war, one should get it over and done with without fancy and fanfare and with clinical precision, too. Omar Bradley famously told George Patton, his former sectorial commander who he was to supersede to become overall sector supremo, that while he did not particularly like war but had to wage it as a professional duty, Patton on the other hand glorified war and romanticised the cult of death and dying. In post-colonial military politics, undue ambition often kills and expeditiously, too. In a profound ironic twist, the key to the success of Akinrinade in reaching the very top of his profession can be found in his modesty and lack of gargantuan appetite for personal glory. Upon joining the army, Akinrinade’s only ambition was to make the rank of major and then retire to his ancestral homestead to make his mark as a farmer. In an army that had only one division and a few brigades, only the deluded and foolishly misguided would have thought otherwise. But as fate and luck would have it, the civil war opened up dramatic possibilities with a vast expanding military which ballooned overnight from one division and a few thousand men to almost three hundred thousand soldiers and three divisions at the end of the war. As a brilliant and well-regarded officer, Akinrinade rode on the cusp of this expansion and rose beyond his wildest dreams. It must also be stressed that as an apolitical officer, the Yakoyo-born general never participated in any of the coups and military uprisings that have shaped the destiny of the modern Nigerian Army. But being well regarded and highly valued, Akinrinade not only survived the frequent purges but was always well sought after when it came to the reconstruction of the disrupted military order. After the coup that brought General Murtala Mohammed to power in August 1975, Akinrinade found himself as the GOC of the Army First Division with headquarters in Kaduna. The assassination of Mohammed six months later and the sterling role played by the First Division in quelling the uprising confirmed Akinrinade’s status as a gallant officer and one of the most influential in the ruling military council. In October, 1979 with the advent of civil rule, Akinrinade had put in his retirement papers and had headed for Kenya on holiday with a group of close friends. It was from there that he was recalled and told he was the new Chief of Army Staff. The rumour in town then was that the strategically astute Theophilus Danjuma had prevailed upon Obasanjo that it would be unwise for all of them to leave at once with the army without an influential and respected leader. In 1981, after some typical military intrigues, he was kicked upstairs to the largely sinecure office of Chief of Defence Staff. Barely a year after in 1982, Akinrinade voluntarily stepped down and retired from the Armed Forces. He was forty two going forty three. This was the man Mike Adenuga was honouring thirty eight years after on the occasion of his eightieth birthday which came early last October. Looking at a king’s mouth, no one would ever believe that he sucked at his mother’s breast, as they say. At eighty, the general is wonderfully preserved, retaining his sprightly steps and youthful good looks. Thanks to Mike Adenuga, everything great and promising about Nigeria seemed to have come together that memorable and unforgettable evening. As glorious tributes followed each other and as great testimonies cascaded upon great testimonies, from Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye who opened the floodgate with his guttural wit to Professor Bolaji Akinyemi who admonished the general not to call on him when next trouble came calling,  you get the sense that the man being eulogised has already passed into legend as a generals’ general and an iconic defender of democracy. Two of these tributes stand out, particularly in the light of the glorious echoes of the nobility and high-mindedness inherent in Nigerians irrespective of tribe, religion or creed. While General Ike Nwachukwu’s tribute stood out for its power of elocution, its magnificent oratory, its moving affection and devotion to a very supportive civil war commander, General Godwin Alabi-Isama’s testimony to a dear friend and course mate shone with nobility, charity and incandescent honesty. It is to be noted that Alabi-Isama’s mother was an Ilorin princess while his father was Ikwuani/Ibo. Ike Omar Sanda Nwachukwu is the son of a Fulani princess from Katsina and an Ibo father. As the general’s brother Chief Femi Akinrinade concluded with a highly perceptive phrase, the general is indeed an aditu—a riddle bound inside a mystery. For a man who saw the middling rank of major as his highest possibility in the army to become a national institution in his own life time and without ever seeking leadership roles or courting political relevance is indeed a glorious tribute to life’s ineluctable mysteries and possibilities.  Here is wishing a good man and a great general many happy returns. To Mafoluku in the hinterland of Oshodi where the indefatigable Baba Lekki, with Okon ably assisting, is fielding questions on the state of the nation from journalists in a ramshackle and abandoned plaza belonging to an old politician. This is one area of contention where the crazy boy will never be able to match Baba Lekki’s fiery anti-establishment intellect and cerebral wit. In Shakespearean drama, an assistant clown is known as a fool’s zany and Okon was on his zaniest form this gloomy and mournful afternoon. Nigerians are a hard dying lot. Nothing, and absolutely nothing, can get them down for long. Despite the underlying currents of hardship and acute discontent in the land, the Christmas season this year got underway much earlier than usual. There has been much rollicking and frolicking in the air. Nigerians do not let go of fun and its fares very easily. On this Christmas Eve, they flocked to the scene of amusement and enjoyment in droves. Despite its rather shabby and unkempt premises, its faded coatings, its dirty curtains, derelict furniture and faded glory, the Pingolo Plaza wore a look of undying relevance and infectious optimism. There was great expectation of a better tomorrow for the nation and its people. Nothing was going to stop Nigeria from fulfilling its manifest destiny. This was God’s own sacred covenant with the Black Race after centuries of suffering and humiliation. One man who did not buy this saccharine and anodyne nonsense was Baba Lekki. “The Black person is a historic fiasco. Nothing can redeem it, and nothing can improve its stock or fortune, not even a genetic reconfiguration of the human species,” the old sadist and certified kill-joy concluded in what he called his last testament to his late wife hinting at his own imminent translation. He had arrived at the Plaza that afternoon wearing a mournful and haggard look while eyeing everybody with superior scorn. He beamed a hateful stare at the joyous and happy-go-lucky crowd and then exploded. “Look, I hate people being happy when they should be unhappy.” “Baba, to appear happy when you are deeply hurt is the best revenge against bad leadership”, one man in the crowd noted with a scholarly grimace. “Very well said. Ori yen so”, an upbeat Lagosian dandy noted as the crowd roared in rowdy approval. Nothing, it appeared at that moment, was going to deflate the upbeat mood or overturn the sunny optimism of the people this dreary afternoon. The only jarring note of discord emanated from a hefty oak of a man with flared nostrils and the visage of autochthonous dwellers of remote mountains who sat in a corner mumbling intermittently. “Rice o, compatriots!”. When this did not seem to be gaining much traction with the crowd, he switched tactics and began chanting, “arise o compatriots, rise up, up rise.” This linguistic mischief seemed to have caught the attention of the dandy Lagosian. “Are you asking for rice or uprise? “ the Lagos dandy demanded. “Yoruba man, mind una business, whether na rice dem bring or na uprise we bring no dey matter. He no matter which name you call an ogbanje pikin, as ogbanje pikin must quench”, the man shot back. At this point, and in order to bring the interactive session alive, one of the journalists present, a pompous little fellow with the airs of a fatuous attention seeker virtually collared Baba Lekki. “Ngbo Baba, is it true that you don’t suffer fools gladly?”, he demanded. The old man eyed the journalist with icy disdain before putting him on the canvas. “So, how come I am suffering you very gladly right now?” Baba Lekki shot back. “Kai, kai, baba don suffer dis one well, well. See how him mouth dey dance?” Okon crowed. “Wo Okon, I don tell you say dis matter no be for pepper soup boys or periwinkle people”, Baba Lekki gently chided Okon and turning on the crestfallen journalist, he ordered. “Now, you, ask me another question”, an invitation declined with the poor fellow vigorously shaking his head in disavowal. This gave a more thoughtful looking journalist an opportunity to step forward. “Sir, what do you think about this local border closure accompanied by international border opening? Is there a contradiction somewhere?” he opened cautiously. “Ah good question. To tell you the truth I no longer understand the man. You cannot regulate at home while you are deregulating abroad.  How can you close local borders when you are throwing open your international borders for all comers? The law says you cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time. So, this is what Fela calls Ojuelegba”, Baba Lekki crowed with wicked humour. There was pin drop silence followed by a loud rumble of approaching commotion. The man who had been crying for rice had decided to up the ante. “You dis yeye Yoruba people, na too know go kill you. I say rice no dey and you come dey blow grammar. Wetin concern common man with dem border?  Dem close border for Seme and come go open all dem border for Egypt. No be say dem one bring dem Araba be dat? Which kind open and close nonsense be dat?” the man screamed and began attacking everybody in sight.