 THE Federal Government has commenced investigation into last Friday’s incident between operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS) and Convener, #RevolutionNow protest Omoyele Sowore at the Federal High Court in Abuja. Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami, stated this on Wednesday after he visited the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho and the President of National Industrial Court of Nigeria Benedict Kanyip. He said his visit to the Chief Judge was not over Sowore’s case but to congratulate Justice Tsoho on his confirmation by the Senate as the substantive Chief Judge of the Federal High Court. Malami said: “(Sowore’s case) is not the only case that the Federal Government is involved in. We have multiple cases and more serious cases than that of Sowore pending. “Generally, the case of Sowore is certainly not an exception. So, I cannot be here for an exclusive case,” he said. Asked if he was worried by the DSS’ conduct, Malami said, “Whatever affects the integrity of the court is a worrisome issue for us. “But then, I can never be preemptive of an incident over which I was not a live witness. “But one thing I am certain of is that the government has put in place mechanism for investigation of the reported incident. “So, I would not like to be preemptive in terms of a conclusion, one way or the other, without allowing the consummation and conclusion of the investigation process.” He added: “I think it is about commitment to the sanctity of the judiciary and the judicial system. “As a government, we have established a tradition of respect and interest to the independence of the judiciary.” Malami pledged the Federal Government’s support to Kanyip towards achieving his mandate. According to him, the Federal Government is committed to the independence of the judiciary and we are looking at the possibility of coming up with an Executive Order to strengthen the judiciary independence. Kanyip said the major challenge facing the court was how to reduce the trial time because justice delay is justice denied. He assured the minister that the court would continue to live up to its expectation on labour and employers’ related matters.