A new batch of 276 new members of the Compliance Institute, Nigeria (CIN) who have successfully completed the CIN professional examinations and certifications were recently inducted by the institute at a ceremony in Lagos which also witnessed the award of prizes to deserving top performers in the 2019 examinations. The investiture /induction which held 7th December 2019 and third in the series, commenced with a lecture titled: “Developing Compliance Skills for the Financial Industry:  A Panacea for a Sustainable Financial System” was delivered by Hajia Abubakar, a Director at the Central Bank of Nigeria. Abubakar who represented by Anetekhai Affi, Deputy Director,  CBN Learning Centre, Lagos charged members of the institute on the importance of skills as well as understanding and upholding codes of practice advocated by industry associations and internal codes of conduct. According to the keynote speaker, with the growth and sophistication of the financial system of today and associated laws, “there is a need to evolve a safe and sound financial system, hence the need to step up compliance skills in order to meet with the dictates of the time.” She added that Compliance is an essential and critical process aimed at mitigating the risk of impairment to the business model caused by failure to meet requisite laws. The speaker listed other skills needed by the compliance professional to include, behavioural competences, independent mindset, and Insights into relationship management both within and outside their organisation among others. Speaking on the investiture, the President, Compliance Institute, Nigeria, Mr. Pattison Boleigha, emphasised that instilling compliance in Nigeria system is a panacea for a moving economy. “It’s time to instill compliance in our culture, it’s time we get things right and make integrity an issue and move the country forward. Complying should be a mutual factor in Nigeria and that’s the message compliance Institute is putting forward and I believe if we increase the amount of energy we deploy in the onerous task, people will hear and embrace compliance.” With CIN’s present membership of over 1600, Mr. Pattison said the institute will continue to drive for membership by extending to all sectors including Insurance, Pension, Microfinance Banks, Bureau de change, Tax Administration and the Capital Market.