By Adebisi Onanuga  A businessman, Adeyinka Aroyewun has asked a Federal High Court, Lagos to wind up the Presidential Task Force on Clearing Up of Apapa Gridlock due to effluxion of time. The first to eighth defendants in the suit number FHC/L/5/2224LY respectively are the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Presidential Task Force on Clearing Up of Apapa Gridlock, Attorney-General and Minister for Justice, Inspector-General of Police, Nigerian Ports Authority, CP Hakeem Odumosu, SUPOL Femi Iwalokun and Mr Kayode Opeifa. In the suit,  filed through his counsel, Lekan Ijelu, the claimant is asking the court to determine “whether the tenure or duration of assignment of the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants set up by the 1st defendant has elapsed by effluxion of time having regard to their inability and or total failure to execute the terms of reference for which the first defendant was established to wit; among others, enforcing the permanent removal of all stationary trucks on the high way and restoration of law and order to Apapa and its environs’ among others. If the question is answered in the affirmative, the claimant asked the court to grant an order restraining them from further parading themselves as members of the task force  and directing the 1st defendant to disband or remove them forthwith from the road. He also asked for a declaration that the tenure or duration of assignment of the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants set up by the 1st defendant has elapsed by effluxion of time. He is also asking the court for a declaration that the continued presence of the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants on the Apapa Expressway and its environs is aggravating the sufferings of Nigerians, particularly residents of the area, truck owners and impeding the nation’s economic growth. In addition, the claimant prayed the court to declare that the intimidation, harassment and assault against him carried out allegedly by thugs of  the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants on October 24 at Sunrise area of Apapa Expressway was illegal and unconstitutional among other declarations.  In its statement of claim, the claimant averred that the 2nd defendant was set up to complete the assignment allotted to it which has largely created impediments to economic growth of the country, within two weeks. He averred  that an additional two weeks given the task force by the Vice President when it became obvious they had not done much to ameliorate the gridlock and which elapsed June 7, 2019 after which a formal report was to be submitted June 27, 2019. He averred that he was not aware of submission of any form of report to the first defendant by the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants nor granting of further extension of time. He averred that the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants continue on the job in spite of achieving no result adding that if anything, they have aggravated the problem leading to  financial loses to Nigerians and the claimant. The claimant said his business has suffered as a result of alleged discriminatory practices of the  2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants and that he was assaulted in the course of demanding his right. He, therefore, averred that the continued presence of the  2nd, 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th defendants on the Apapa assignment is wrongful and illegal. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the suit.