By Adesola Ikulajolu  The Alumni Association of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, has launched an Education Trust Fund (ETF) scheme which aims to provide scholarship for less-privileged students of the Institution. Its President, Mr. Oyekunle Adetoba, inaugurated the scheme at the third convention of the association at the Nelson Mandela Hall of the university. Adetoba noted that the scheme became imperative to cushion the effects of the increase in school fees on students, particularly the indigent. He said: “Going by the information at hand, over 40 per cent of the students have not been registered for various number of semesters owing to their inability to pay fees. “While some are on the verge of dropping out of school, others had already dropped out of the university for same reason. “Therefore, at the meeting of the alumni council, it was decided that an Education Trust Fund programme be floated. This was sequel to  various appeals the alumni received with respect to payment of school fees by students, including a young man who had a first class in the university but almost dropped out of the Law School programme, until  the alumni came to his recue financially.  “I want to announce that during today’s third convention of this association, three undergraduate students will benefit from our ETF and we will continue to increase this modest effort of ours annually.” Adetoba added that efforts were being made to complete the on-going construction of students hostel to bring in more students to campus from the over 90 percent of students who live off the campus. Adetoba pleaded for support for ETF and hostel projects from well-meaning Nigerians, including philanthropists, corporate bodies, associations and others. The three beneficiaries were Obaloluwa Tadese Faforiji, 200-Level History and International Studies; Dorcas Taiwo Ojo, a 200-Level Public Administration undergraduate as well as Roland Oluwasegun Bayode, a third year student of Mass Communication. The convention also featured a lecture with the theme: Creative economy: Contents and digital disruption, delivered by Mr. Sola Fajobi; as well as special recognition for members of the Board of Trustees of the alumni. 