 The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has acknowledged the sustainability leadership of Access Bank  Plc. The regulator has also presented the bank awards in all five categories of the CBN Sustainability Awards at its 2019 Bankers Committee Gala Night held in Ogere, Ogun State, Nigeria. At the Awards ceremony, Access Bank was awarded first position in categories such as the Most Sustainable Bank of the Year, for the third consecutive time. The bank was lauded for founding the first-ever disability-friendly inclusion hub in partnership with Project Enable – to promote the access of persons with disabilities to ICT skills and opportunities; creating a digital, toll-free platform for violated persons in partnership with HACEY Health Initiative; up-cycling waste and recycling paper to pencils, among many others. Access Bank also emerged first place winner for the ‘Most Sustainable Transaction of the Year in Agriculture’ and the ‘Most Sustainable Transaction of the Year in Oil and Gas’. Additional wins include the ‘Most Sustainable Transaction of the Year in Power’ and the ‘Bank of the Year in Women Economic Empowerment’. According to the Group Managing Director Access Bank Plc., the Awards are a “testament to Access Bank’s sustainability commitment. Our vision is to be the world’s most respected African Bank and sustainability is critical to our achieving this.” The Bank’s Head of Sustainability, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, added that, “In our determined effort to offer more than banking, we will continue to act as a responsible business and also contribute our quota towards adding value to communities where we operate, leaving them better equipped to succeed”. The recognition by the CBN offers credence to a growing number of local and global awards won by the bank in recent months. These include the ‘Outstanding Business Sustainability Award’ at the 2019 Karlsruhe Sustainable Finance Awards; ‘Most Socially Responsible Company of the Year (Overall Winner)’ at the 2019 Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Awards (SERAs); ‘Bank of the Year’ Award at the 2019 Banker Awards; ‘Best Bank in Nigeria’ and ‘Best Product Launch (Pan Africa)’ Awards at the 2019 Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Finance Awards. 