Politicians have been urged to stop playing ethnic cards and learn from 1994 Rwanda experience where over a million people were massacred during the genocide in the country. An evangelist, Reverend Esther Abimbola Ajayi who spoke at Kigali Genocide Memorial Arcade in Rwanda said, “Twenty five years after genocide, I can still feel the impact among the people. The memory is still fresh and their tears are yet to dry. I pray such heinous crime against humanity would never happen again in Africa, especially in Nigeria. “We must continue to pray for Nigeria for peace to reign. Our religious and political leaders must preach love and peace at all times and we must be our brother’s keepers.” She observed “The good thing I see in Rwanda is the good spirit to forgive and march on. Though they didn’t forget the incident and that made them to resolve that never again would they allow anybody to divide them. No more Hutus or Tutsi but they see themselves as Rwandans. This should be a great lesson to Nigerians.” She asked politicians fanning the embers of disunity to visit Rwanda and see the effect of what they were preaching. Mother Ajayi said Nigeria and indeed, Africa needed leaders that would preach love, peace and unity amongst their people and canvass for votes on what they have to offer and not on ethnic sentiment. The evangelist her husband, Reverend Ademuyiwa Ajayi were invited to the country by the Rwanda Development Board (RBD) and Solace Ministries, a non-profit, non-denominational Christian organization dedicated to comforting widows and orphans in response to the overwhelming needs of traumatized survivors of genocide especially HIV/AIDS. Apart from helping Rwandans to heal their wounds, the organization is essentially committed to reconciling them with Christ. Welcoming the Ajayis to Rwanda, the Chief Investment Officer of RDB, Mr Guy Baron appealed to the family to invest in the country especially in the real estate and agriculture. After visiting the patients in the hospital and its new structure under construction, the Ajayis and their entourage joined them in the fellowship to praise God for the lives of the survivors. A survivor, Gakwandi, who narrated how he survived the war said, “Today is a special day for us. Though we are small but we have a very big God. I heard of what Rev Ajayi is doing around the world but I thought we are not in the category of people she could have time to visit.” Ajayi in her ministration counselled, “Devil will always want to remind you of yesterday to get you stuck in pains but forget yesterday and thank God for today and be assured of greater things God will do for you tomorrow.”  