Lagos State Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has opened the new secretariat of Onigbongbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Lagos. The governor also inaugurated a network of roads and Customary Court Building. Amid fanfare, Sanwo-Olu said the projects would, no doubt, be of immense benefit to the people of Onigbongbo LCDA. Represented by Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Sanwo-Olu said the Administrative block would provide a conducive environment for improved productivity and service delivery. “The network of roods would impact positively on the socio-economic lives of the people through improved connectivity with major roads while the customary court would enhance the process of efficient and effective delivery of justice,” he said. According to him, the vision of a greater Lagos cannot be realised through the efforts of the state government alone. Local Governments/Local Council Development Areas, he said, have their roles to play, being the closest to the grassroots. Sanwo-Olu said: “The T.H.E.M.E.S agenda is a shared vision which both the state and local governments/councils must key into in order to ensure maximum impact on the lives of ordinary Lagosians. It is for this reason that I am elated by the high level of commitment demonstrated by the administration of Onigbongbo Local Council Development Area through these rejects. “I wish to state that the State Government will continue to improve on the existing synergy between the State and the Local Governments/Local Council Development Areas, to ensure that no part of the state is left behind in the journey towards a Greater Smart City Lagos.” The governor urged residents of Onigbongbo to take ownership of the projects and ensure that they are protected against misuse. “You must always remember that the provision of these facilities was made possible through your taxes, levies and dues,” he said. He congratulated the council Chairman and management for the achievements, hoping that the best is yet to come. The council Chairman, Francis Babatunde Oke, thanked the governor for honouring the council’s invitation. He also thanked the party leaders, state Exco members, lawmakers and others that graced the occasion. According to Oke, nothing happens in a vacuum, adding that the nature of a problem dictates its causes of solution.