Ernest Nwokolo Reports  A Pastor in a white garment church, Segun Philip, has been arrested by the Police in connection with the killing of a final year Theater Art student of Lagos State University, Favour Daley-Oladele, for ritual purposes. Also arrested along with the self – acclaimed Pastor Segun, is 23 years old boy, Adeeko Owolabi, who is alleged to have connived with the pastor to killed the undergraduate student. The deceased was reported to have left home to an unknown destination since 8th of December 2019 and has not been found, prompting the parents to report a case of missing person at the Mowe Police Station. The Police Public Relations Officer for Ogun state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a release, stated that detectives from Mowe division who were detailed by the Superintendent of Police(SP), Marvis Jayeola, carried out a commonforensic investigation on the disappearance of the girl. Abimbola, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) added that the investigation yielded useful clue as the movement of the slain student was traced to a white garment church in far away Ikoyi-Ile in Osun State being pastored by Segun Philip.  According to the Police Spokesman, the detectives upon locating the church in Osun, arrested Pastor Segun, who confessed that the girl was brought to him by her boyfriend Adeeko Owolabi, who was still within the vicinity of the church. The said boyfriend was traced and apprehended. Adeeko Owolabi told the Police that the deceased was his girlfriend and that he lured her to Ikoyi-Ile where he had perfected plans with the so-called pastor Segun Philip to use her for money making ritual. He confessed that while the girl was asleep, the pastor gave him a pestle with which he used to smashed the head of the girl and the pastor quickly used a knife to cut off her neck, ripped open her chest and removed her heart which he used in preparing a concoction for him and his mother to eat. Adeeko Owolabi also told the Police that he decided to go into money ritual because things were not going well with his parents economically, especially his mother who used to be the breadwinner of the family. He explained that when he sought for assistance from the pastor, he was asked to bring a human being for that purpose and the available person at the time was his girlfriend. The Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson has directed that the suspects be transferred to the Homicide Section of the State criminal investigation and intelligence department for proper investigation. Ebrimson who described the gruesome murder of the deceased as high degree of wickedness, vowed to ensure that all the suspects face the full wrath of the law.