The application of technology that will encourage the culture of savings and investment is a tool to grow the economy, a global financial business advisory and investment firm, Furst Salvo Limited, said at the weekend in Lagos. Its Marketing Director, Omawumi Jeyema, who spoke during the unveiling of a mobile application for savings and investment, said said the firm understands the peculiarity of the Nigerian economy which puts strain on people’s finances. This, she said, makes it difficult for people to set aside funds to achieve future goals such as buying a land, car, owning a business or towards tuition fees for children. With focus on addressing these challenges to boost the economy, she said Salvo has developed an easy and reliable way to encourage saving habit among Nigerians who will not only have access to their full savings but also get an enviable interest on their money. The app which is available for download on the iOS Store and Google playstore, is a savings platform that helps users to save money smartly while earning returns on savings. It is to encourage savings habit among Nigerians in an easy and reliable way, which also offer users lucrative interest payment on savings of between 10per cent and 15per cent per annum. Savings can be done daily, weekly or monthly with as little as N100 which allows Nigerians begin their journey into financial freedom. As required by law, this product is powered and supported by a duly licensed bank; Xslnce Microfinance Bank. She said: “As a socially responsible organisation, over the years, we have remained committed to providing reliable financial solutions to Nigerians, to make life easier for all and ensure peace of mind that would guarantee a feeling of satisfaction and fulfillment.” She said costumers should expect continuous development of the app to make savings seamless and assured value for money. “We are consistently active in this regard as our technical team works round the clock to ensure the Salvo savings application meets global standard and guarantees ease of process,” she said. Salvo is the guide to financial security where users can invest, save and spend responsibly; it is an easy to use with smooth navigation through the downloading process. The journey to your financial goals begins with a click! To get started register with a valid email and phone number, Visit www.salvo.ng or download Salvo App from Ios store or Google Play store to create an account in less than 5 minutes. #savespendsmartly.