From Chris Njoku, Owerri  THE Interim Chairman of All Progressives Party (APC) in Imo State, Prince Marcellius Nlemigbo, has commended the National Working Committee (NWC) for lifting the suspension on former Governor Rochas Okorocha. It described it as a good step in the reconciliation move of President Muhammadu Buhari. Nlemigbo told The Nation in Owerri that the lifting of the suspension will improve the atmosphere for unity within the party. He said the most important thing is for members to tow the line of reconciliation. The interim chairman added: “We are looking forward for all of us working together for the progress and moving forward of the party in the state. Even within the family you quarrel, but the most important thing is the ability of those involved to resolve it amicably and move forward.” He said that although the state suspended the former governor, “we are happy the NWC ratified it and later lifted the suspension”, adding: “This is a good development for all of us in the party.” Also a statement by the former governor’s media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, described the lifting of the suspension as good news.  The statement reads: “We have received the good news that the National Working Committee (NWC) of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has, in its wisdom, lifted the suspension of the former governor of Imo State and senator representing Imo West district, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, and it is a welcome development.” Onwuemeodo said Okorocha has always been a very good party man and shall continue in that regard. He said the former governor will continue to work for the progress of the party and that he would join hands with other stakeholders to ensure that the APC remains strong in Imo State in particular and the Southeast in general. The former governor thanked leaders of the party, especially President Muhammadu Buhari, for this healthy development. He also commended the APC members in Imo for their unflinching support, steadfastness and commitment for the party. Okorocha assured them that the party would remain number one in the state. 