By Sampson Unamka  Some pupils attending public secondary schools in Lagos State had their first experience of how the United Nations General Assembly works during the Secondary Schools Model United Nations (Lass-Mun) held at the Lagos Business School (LBS), Lagos recently. The conference with its theme: “Making Cities Inclusive, Safe, Resilient and Sustainable(Goal 11 SDG);” was geared at providing pupils drawn from public secondary schools in Education District III with the opportunity to engage and learn about diplomacy, international relations and the United Nation(UN). In her speech, Tutor General /Permanent Secretary, Education District III, Dr. Yinka Ayandele said participating in the simulation of the UN General Assembly meeting would enrich their experience of world affairs. “Our dignified delegates as ’emerging leaders’ are going to simulate a typical United Nations General Assembly meeting proceeding. They will assume the role of ambassadors, debating various issues of global concern, with a focus on designing sustainable cities that address the various urbanization challenges that we face today”, she said. She encouraged them to deliberate on proper policy recommendations, also explore and employ frameworks that take into consideration historical, geographical, cultural, economic, and political factors in developing sustainable solutions that address the negative impacts of urbanisation. In his address, United Nations, Secretary General Antonio Guterres, represented by Director, United Nations Information Centre, Nigeria, Ronald Kayanja, explained with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were important.  “The United Nations is the platform for action on climate change, on growing inequality, on harnessing new technologies for the good of all, and on all global issues that cannot be addressed by only one country alone. Our blueprint is the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development the globally agreed plan for dignity, peace and prosperity on a healthy planet,” he said He said to achieve the 17 SDGs, great global mobilization that goes beyond governments, bringing people together from all walks of life and showing that the international cooperation can deliver for everyone, as well as strengthening the voices of women, girls, and young people were essential. He thanked the pupils for getting involved and for standing up for the shared values of all humanity. 