 ALL Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has urged Christians to emulate Jesus by spreading the message of love and tolerance. In a Christmas message by his media aide, Tunde Rahman, the former Lagos State governor said Jesus came into the word to save lives. He said: “On this Christmas Day, people across Nigeria will celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. While celebrating this holy day, all of us, whether Christians or of another faith, must also devote this time to reflect on the lessons of peace, truth, kindness and compassion that described the life and teachings of Jesus. “He taught that we came into existence to live for a purpose greater than ourselves. He taught that we are to love one another, despite any difference between us; that we must eschew hate. “He loved and gave his life to better and save mankind. No matter the faith one may profess, what Jesus taught is universal, for all peoples and for all times. To follow him is to seek the best of our humanity. “This season is an opportunity for all of us to be thankful for God’s blessings in our lives and to ask for His help that the light of progress and good may forever shine upon, and sustain, our precious nation. “As we mark this day, let us do so in a way that comports with the spirit of Jesus. Our economy is growing and distributing prosperity and a good livelihood to many. Yet, among us are also those in want. “Our nation is strengthening making communities more secure. Yet, among us are those still weak and put upon. Our nation is reforming in ways that give new opportunities to our people. Yet, among us are still those who have been forgotten and feel left behind. “In the spirit of this day, we must extend ourselves to those who are poor, weak, and feel left behind so that they may not lose hope on this day of eternal hope. May the ways and teachings of Jesus guide us to make for a better Nigeria; may we celebrate this day by showing love for our brother as well as extending compassion to a needing stranger. In this way, we best honour and respect this day. Merry Christmas and the best to you all and to Nigeria.”