Policemen on Tuesday in Lagos averted another bloodbath by rival gangs in Aguda and Ijeshatedo axis of Coker-Aguda and Itire-Ikate Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). The Nation gathered that the gang war, which occurred on Monday, had claimed three lives. The hoodlums destroyed belongings including vehicles worth millions of naira. The police, it was learnt, were alerted by the Chairman of Itire-Ikate LCDA, Dr. Ahmed Apatira, yesterday morning following a tip-off that the miscreants had started regrouping. Before the police arrived the scene, the street urchins had started attacking one another, leaving four persons injured. Many, who were going to their offices and business areas, ran for safety. They later returned to the area following the restoration of law and order by the police. Dr. Apatira, who visited the scene yesterday, urged the warring parties to desist or face the wrath of the law. In a chat with The Nation at the council secretariat at Airways area of the LCDA, Apatira said the LCDA has banned carnival scheduled to hold during the Yuletide. This, he said, was to avert bloodshed. He said: “We have discovered that many of these crises started during parties. We cannot allow the crises to continue. We are in the festive season; people should be able to celebrate with their families without fear or molestation by a group of unrestricted youths.” The council boss urged youths to shun violence. He added: “My advice to them is to desist from the devilish act or risk arrest. Anyone caught will be prosecuted and eventually jailed. So, instead of wasting your youthful lives and ending up behind bars, why don’t you engage in something meaningful? We will not condone crime in this LCDA.”
Apatira enjoined the youth to take advantage of vocational training ongoing in the council to make a good life for themselves. Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), on Monday said that 22 shops and some vehicles were vandalised during the clash. The command, he said, had intensified patrols and surveillance in the affected areas. “Our vision is to create something out of nothing by using the power of imagination and creativity. The process of innovation will lead to wealth creation through those acquired skills. Those that have graduated are creating jobs for others. We want our youths to channel their energy into doing something meaningful. This is the time to give their lives proper direction. Whatever skill they learn will be useful to them forever,” he said. He said: “On Sunday, at about 11:41am, police received a distress call that there was a gunshot at Pako, Aguda Canal. On getting to the scene, police found the body of 27-year-old Alagodo, a follower of one Eluku, who is in prison over crime. “On Monday, at about 08:30am, some hoodlums from Ijesha, in what looks like a revenge mission, stormed Aguda with cutlasses, bottles, stones and other weapons. They destroyed about 22 shops and vandalised vehicles. Hoodlums from Aguda reacted. One of the hoodlums from Aguda called Timileyin Odulana was injured by the hoodlums from Ijesha. He was taken to a military hospital in Yaba, where he was confirmed dead. “Police teams from the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants, Rapid Response Squad, Area ‘C’ Command Surulere, Aguda and Ijesha Divisions were mobilised to the scene. The situation was brought under control.
“Seventy-five suspects from both sides were arrested. Investigation is on. The suspects will be arraigned after investigation.”