 SOME Yoruba leaders have called on the government to tackle unemployment among youths, in order to solve insecurity. They said without jobs for youths, government’s fight against insecurity would be a mirage. The leaders made the observations at the annual Distinguished Lecture/ 5th Merit Award Ceremony and N100 million Appeal Fund of Ede Unique Club in Ede, Osun State. The lecture had as theme: “Imperatives of National Security: Southwest in Focus.” Prof. Banji Akintoye, who was one of the keynote speakers, said massive poverty was responsible for the security challenges. Akintoye, an Emeritus Professor of History, said it was not possible for people to be living in abject poverty and expect improved security. He said due to high level of poverty, youths, especially from the Southwest, risked their lives through the Sahara Desert for a greener pasture in the developed countries. Akintoye, who noted that the Southwest was not spared from high level of unemployment and insecurity, berated the region’s governors for not doing enough to create jobs for youths. He said: “There is no doubt that there is massive poverty in the Southwest and in the country at large. “It is painful that our Southwest governors do not know how to handle poverty. “Rather than creating jobs, we are enrolling our children in schools with no job prospects. “Poverty is becoming unbearable in the region and as a result, many youths are engaging in drug abuse and other illegal activities. “The economy is declining, many are losing their jobs, there is high level of corruption in the land and people are living in abject poverty. “There is no doubt that there is urgent need for economic revival in the Southwest and the country at large.” Akintoye, who noted that kidnapping came into Southwest from other states because of the belief that there was money in the region, said Southwest governors must come together to tackle the menace. The Aare Onakankanfo of Yorubaland, Chief Gani Adams, said Southwest governors must not relent in their efforts to tackle insecurity. Adams, represented by Chief Yinka Oguntimeyin, a lawyer, said insecurity was destroying cultural and ecotourism business. He appealed to the Federal Government to sustain the fight against insecurity. The President of the club, Prof. Kajogbola Alimi, said the topic of the lecture was carefully chosen to discuss the security challenges in the Southwest and the country. He said security was a serious matter that should not be left in the hands of the government alone because of its importance. Alimi said it was high time the government and other relevant stakeholders looked inwards to provide solution to the security challenges in the region and the country. The chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Adebayo Jimoh, said the government must tackle food insecurity and poor governance, which he noted were part of reasons for insecurity. Jimoh, a former chairman of Oodua Group, said that there was need for the government to embrace technology in fighting security challenges, rather than relying on military hardware alone.  