 METHODIST Church Nigeria Archbishop of Lagos Diocese Most Rev. Isaac Ayo Olawuyi has held an Eucharist thanksgiving as part of activities marking his 60th birthday. The event, which held at the Wesley Cathedral, Olowogbowo, Apongbon, Lagos attracted dignitaries from within and outside the church. They included the Prelate Emeritus Most Rev Sunday Ola Makinde, Most Rev Ayo Ladigbolu (rtd) and Archbishop of Enugu Diocese Christopher Edeh. Others were former Oyo Governor Chief Christopher Alao-Akala and chairman of Lagos Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Apostle Alexander Bamgbola. The Prelate of Methodist Church Dr Samuel Uche, who was on episcopal tours, and Oba of Lagos Rilwanu Akiolu sent representatives. The three-hour service was a combination of praises, special number rendition, thanksgiving, scripture reading and Holy Communion. In his sermon, Most Rev. Ladigbolu spoke on thanksgiving and the need for sober reflection by Christians. Noting that God ordained celebration, he urged Christians to find time to celebrate. He said God created the Sabbath and the Jubilee, among others, as compulsory celebrations for His people to relax and enjoy themselves. On thankfulness, the octogenarian said: ‘’The Bible reminds us that everything we own came from God,’’ adding that for this debt Christians should put God first in their lives. The Most Rev. Ladigbolu, who came from Ogbomoso, advised the celebrator to do four things: backward, inward, forward and upward, saying that each of them would enable him to understand His creator and life very well to better appreciate God’s goals. The preacher, who had earlier praised Most Rev. Olawuyi for bringing tremendous changes to the Diocese, specifically, Wesley Cathedral, added: ‘’If you look up to God, he will guide you, lead you and always answer you.’’ He added: “Your responsibility, Ayo, is to lift up Jesus so that He can use you to draw all men to Himself.’’ Congratulating the celebrator, the senior cleric urged him to sing the popular song: ‘’Lift Him up higher, the Lord is good, I will up higher anywhere I go, I will lift up higher.’’ Most Rev Olawuyi did. He was later joined by his wife and the congregation. During the service, the Archdiocese presented the celebrator with a large-size portrait. In his response, Archbishop Olawuyi, who read earlier Psalms 103, expressed satisfaction with the gift and the turnout at the service. He said: ‘’It is not me that you have honoured, it is the God in me. For that, the honour of God will not depart from you. “All the churches in Lagos diocese and even outside Methodist, thank you for your love. And God will bless you.’’ A former Methodist Lay President Sir Remi Omotoso described Most Rev Olawuyi as ‘’result-oriented, an emblem of the good lord, a man of progress and a leader of par excellence’’.