THE Federal Government yesterday launched an education initiative, Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), in Oyo State. It said the initiative would increase equitable access for the about 13.2 million out-of-school children (OOSC) and improve access to education across the country. The new initiative is estimated to gulp about $611 million. Oyo, the only Southwest state benefitting from the five-year BESDA programme, according to the 2015 National Education Data Survey (NEDS), has 272,847 OOSC to be returned to school. The Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, who launched the programme yesterday at the Parliament Building of the state secretariat in Ibadan, the state capital, expresed appreciation to the World Bank for initiating the BESDA project. The minister also thanked the global bank for providing $611 million to support the Federal Government in strengthening its Universal Basic Education (UBE) as well as addressing the first pillar of the Ministerial Strategic Plan (MSP) of 2016 to 2019 on OOSC. Represented by Director of Basic Secondary Education in the Federal Ministry of Education, Mrs Lamin Amodu, the minister said: “With an estimated 13.2 million children out-of-school, Nigeria has the highest number of out-of-school children in sub-Saharan Africa. For us to address these challenges adequately, therefore, we must strengthen the quality of basic education in Nigeria by confronting head-on those factors that deny our children access to basic education. “It is in light of this we are here to launch the Better Education Service Delivery for All programme in Oyo State. It is a programme that will result in better life for our children. The cardinal objective of this programme is to increase equitable access for out-of-school children, improve literacy and strengthen accountability for results at the basic education level in the focus states. “The programme focuses on 17 states in the country, which include the 13 states of the Northwest and Northeast as well as Niger, Oyo, Ebonyi and Rivers states. The selection of these states was based on the prevalence of the number of out-of-school children.” Governor Abiola Ajimobi, who was represented by his deputy, Otunba Moses Adeyemo, said the state cherished and considered the programme a great privilege. The governor assures the Federal Government that the state would put in place necessary mechanisms to ensure the successful implementation of BESDA. “We are all aware of the fact that no nation could rise above the level of its educational development, thus, the need for an educational system that is all-inclusive and knowledge-based cannot be overemphasised,” he said. BESDa’s National Project Coordinator Prof Gidado Tahir said the initiative focuses on results rather than inputs. He said the approach being adopted is Programme for Results (P for R) geared towards increasing equitable access for OOSC, improve literacy and strengthen accountability for results of basic education in Nigeria.   