A fire disaster resulting from power surge in Angwan Biri in Bosso local government area of Niger state has led to the death of a six month old pregnant woman and her two children. The Nation learnt that the fire occurred when power was restored to the area and due to its high voltage and intensity resulted into a fire outbreak. The pregnant woman has been identified as Adama while the two children were identified as Tasleem and Tasalima. No one could tell where the fire had generated from in the building where the deceased resided which consists of five rooms and parlors and is close to the Izala Mosque in Angwan Biri Bosso. Other people in the house were able to escape with minor burns but they said they were unable to rescue the pregnant woman and her children who were suspected to have been asleep. Neighbours said they could not do anything due to the intensity of the fire. The Public Relations Officer of the Niger state Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Ibrahim Audu confirmed that a pregnant woman and two children got burnt in the fire incident. He also lamented that the residents of Angwan Biri have been victims of fire incidents resulting from power surge in recent times saying, “Angwan Biri has had three fire incidents in recent times, this is the third fire incident in the area caused by power surge and each time, it results to death.” The PRO then disclosed that the Agency has been to the place of the incident to conduct assessment of what was lost adding that the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Muhammed Ketso has directed that N1 million be given to the victims while assessment should be done to know how to reconstruct the burnt building. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) in Minna, Mallam Adamu Muhammed said they were aware of the fire incident but it does not concern AEDC describing it as a domestic incident. “It is a fire incident, there is nothing attached to the issue with AEDC. We call it domestic incident and it does not concern us.”