Management of the Ambrose Alli University (AAU), Ekpoma, Edo State has accused the leadership of the institution’s  Academic Staff Union Universities (ASUU) of engaging in deliberate smear campaign to tarnish the image of the university and its management. It said the Chairman and Secretary of ASUU-AAU, Dr. Monday Igbafen and Dr. Anthony Coker are pursuing a centrifugal agenda against the administration of the present Vice Chancellor and his family. A statement signed by university’s spokesman, Mr. Edward Aihevba said the duo were focused on destabilizing the university system and making AAU ungovernable through “their epistles of blackmail and war-mongering has libeled many,  and dragged the name of the university to the mud”. Aihevba said the ASUU chairman wrote letters to the Council of Legal Education and the National Universities Commissions (NUC) in alleged effort to degrade and smear some of the university’s academic programmes, the Governing Council, Senate and university management. He said the university management would not fold it’s hands and watch anybody destabilise the university under the guise of trade unionism. “The university community is thoroughly appalled at the series of malicious, libelous, insultive, unguarded and damaging statements made against the person of the vice chancellor, his family members, the university management and indeed the university as a whole by the chairman of ASUU-AAU, Dr. Igbafen and secretary of ASUU-AAU Dr. A. A. Comer and a few his cohorts. “Their atrocious proclamations and malicious vituperation against the university are streaming in the social media and the newspapers. The image of the university is being rubbished and denigrated”, the statement read. Reacting, Prof. Igbafen described the allegations as untrue and unfounded. Prof. Igbafen stated that it was the school management that disrupted ASUU Congress by sponsoring thuggery. He said the union was happy that the strike was called of and full academic work has commenced.