A 25-year old man, John Omosuanfo, has been arrested by men of the Edo State Police Command for producing bullets from expended cartridges. John was arrested at Iyoha village in Estako West local government area after one of his brothers used one of the bullet to shoot a rival cult member. He told newsmen when he was paraded that he used the bullets he manufactured to hunt animals and not for armed robbery or cultism. John explained that attempt by his brother to lure one Lucky into the Jurist confraternity led to family fight and both parents were injured in the process. According to him, “I pick expended cartridge and remove the under. I cover it back with slippers and load it with local gun power. I used it for hunting animals. I don’t sell the bullets. I was arrested because my brother used one of the cartridge to shoot some boys. “My brother was having issue with a boy at a bar. My brother told the boy to join Jurist but the boy said he would prefer to join Vikings. My brother went to his house to make peace but fight started. The boys came to our house and use cutlass to cause injuries on our father. “That was the reason my brother use the gun to shoot them.” His brother, Omomoh, who was also paraded said, “Sunday wanted to initiate Lucky in Jurist but Lucky refused. He asked them to leave the bar since they do not want to join Jurist. “He went to their house to apologise but fight started so I destroyed their property because they injured me. They came to our house and didn’t find us. They use machete on our father which made our younger brother to use gun to fire at them.” But Sunday Anthony, a brother to Lucky who was also paraded, said he returned home from Jattu when he saw some boys fighting with his brothers and used cutlass inflict injuries on their father. “The boys destroyed our properties and used cutlass to inflict injuries on our father. We went to their house to also use cutlass to cut their father. As we were going, Sunday brought a gun to shoot us.”