In this concluding part of his report on what is life like in Cross River, NICHOLAS KALU looks at the people, their strengths, weaknesses and capabilities. Coming from the background of being a civil service states, economic activities are not so much when compared to even its neigbours like Uyo in Akwa Ibom State. Despite the lull in the economy of the capital, city, it however, has a very active nightlife. The people of Calabar are often reputed for their love of enjoying life. It comes as no surprise that CALABAR is seen as an acronym for come and live and be at rest. A very common business in the city is sit-out joints serving, alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, alongside various kinds of meat and fish. These are mostly patronised in the evenings. It is not really a big city. Without traffic, Calabar can be covered in 30 minutes from one end to the other, from Anantigha, in the southernmost part to Eight Miles in the northernmost part. And there is almost never traffic in the city. The main road that leads into the city is the Murtala Mohammed Highway. Calabar experienced a rapid growth since 1999 as many more areas had been opened up in the city since then. Mr Jerry Edor who lives in one such settlement in Ikot Effanga Mkpa, said it was a good thingng the town was expand by the Duke administration. This, he said was a sign of progress. “There are new areas which developed in Calabar since 1999 which before now were just huge forests with all kinds of wild animals. But today they have turned to suburban settlements. The price of land in these places is so high now. Some of these areas are Satellite Town, Ekorinm, Eight Miles, and Ikot Effanga Mkpa here that we are,” Edor said. Mr Inyang Bassey who has been in Calabar since the early 90s said, “The nature of the town is very slow in terms of growth and development. It has been very slow. They were signs that it would pick up during the days of Donald Duke. In fact it fact decayed until Donald came and started the process of rebuilding the state and the growth and expansion of the town. Before Donald came, let us look at the infrastructure for example. How many dualised roads did we really have in Calabar Metropolis. Even the Highway was only dualized up to MCC. IBB Way, Etagbo and Mary Slessor were the only dualized street in Calabar. Outside that I don’t think there has been any else, except Imoke who took the M/M Highway from Army junction to Tinapa junction and then constructed the Goodluck Jonathan bypass. “Donald opened up the city. Before now there were just the few major roads. Of course Donald did this to open the town and the potentials of the state which is all about leisure. Unfortunately, all that seems to be lost now. It’s in recession. Generally things are costlier here.  The cost of living of Calabar is always high. It has always been so. The cost of living is on the high side. It is a normal place where if buy things at a lower price elsewhere, be prepared to buy at a higher price in Calabar. A very typical example is that sachet water started selling for 10 naira in Calabar. Across the country, this was where it started. It used to be five naira. Talking of the housing situation, of course the house rents are in Calabar.” Also speaking along the same line another Calabar resident Mrs Lydia Aniekan, said “Up until the administration of Mr Donald Duke, Cross River State was like a village. You could count the cars on the roads. If I remember correctly children even played football on the roads. As recently as 1999, the only dual lane road in Calabar was the Murtala Mohammed Highway that leads into the state capital. Outside this were just narrow streets, most of them not tarred and in very terrible conditions. But when Duke came, he started the dualization of the popular Marian Road, which we have today. Also bringing traffic through the state, the state witnessed a rapid growth under him, which has brought us to the level of development we have today. I only think it is unfortunate the present administration has decided to jettison tourism on the basis that you have to put business before please.” Cost of living in the city it was observed learnt is relatively high, but investigations revealed that there are also a lot of things that are cheap in the city. Also foodstuff is cheap compared to neigbouring states. It was gathered that people come all the way down to Calabar to buy dry fish, fresh fish, crayfish, palm oil, periwinkle among others. It was observed that most times people Calabar, for any other reason, they still come to the beach market to buy all those things in bulk and also foodstuff and take back. from other states always buys them in bulk and take back. Though cost of living is high, but things like crayfish, food and fish a re relatively cheap compared to other places. Also food-stuff particularly are relatively cheap, because the state produces a lot of food most of which are wasted due to lack of roads to evacuate them. Madam Cordelia Ene is a woman in her 60s, whose daughter lives in another state but visits her frequently would buy all these to last her a while till she comes back. She said, “Whenever my daughter comes into town from Uyo, she really makes use of the Calabar Beach market. “The Calabar Beach Market opens on Sunday afternoon. Monday morning. Friday morning, and Thursday afternoon. The market opens everyday but those particular days for those big fish, fry fish, crayfish. You can buy oil periwinkle and other seafood, even second hand clothes. The also the “Afang” leaves. The market opens every time, but on those days you will get fish and other things in good quantity and also cheaper. People even come down by sea from Oron in Akwa Ibom to sell on those days,” she said. The hub of the nightlife in Calabar, is the Atekong axis of Marian. All ages and classes of people can be seen here at nights, especially during the weekends, having fun. Long ago it was the time when the town went to sleep when the sun went down. That was before the tourism drive of the Donald Duke led administration, sustained by the present Liyel Imoke led administration, changed face of the state, making it more visible on the world map. Consequently the once touted sleepy town became a hub, attracting visitors from all over the country and even beyond. Attendant on this development was a more intense social life. Coupled with the impression that the average Calabar person loves to live life to the fullest, the city had gotten all the necessary ingredients for frolicking and relaxation. The proliferation of hotels, drinking joints and clubs to in the past few years has stimulated an active nightlife to match the influx of people who seek a fun. It is now common sight in most part of town, especially the Marian Road axis to see such crawlers at night who are out to have a good time. Most of them, especially youths, patronize the drinking joints that litter the city that seems to sparkle at night. Also, the night-clubs which inject so much power into a bubbling night life that is blossoming in the city. The growth of night clubs had provided a fresh avenue for most residents and visitors to unwind, drinking, dancing and socializing. Among a host of such clubs are the most prominent ones as Jaspers along Marian Road, Mayfair Lounge at the Channel View Hotels, Pinnacle Club and Base Bar. Mr Felix Asuquo (not real name) owns and runs a popular club in town said he returned from diaspora to establish the business which he said had so much potential in the state in view of Duke government’s tourism thrust. “Running a club in Calabar is no different from running a club in any other city, but the only difference is that the people here are not hostile. Security wise, I think security in Calabar is very good compared to other places. So that is why nightlife and clubs would thrive in Calabar because people can feel safe going out. “We have to give credit to our state government because they introduced tourism. Encouraging people outside the state and in diaspora to come and build up the tourism sector that is why I came back as well. “People are always coming in and out of Calabar. It is a place where people come to have fun and we give them quality fun. Besides the Lafarge Cement Factory and some quarry companies in Akamkpa local government area and the Niger Mills Factory in Calabar, there is hardly anything going on in terms of industry. Two universities, the University of Calabar and the Cross River University of Technology, also do much to inject life into the city. Whenever they are on vacation or on strike as they are now, the city almost becomes like a ghost town, as most businesses complain of low patronage. Also giving life to the economy of the city are the activities of Igbo businessmen who dabble into many areas, especially electronics and vehicle spare parts trading. The city is replete with relics of history, such as colonial buildings, showing evidence of early contact with the white man. The Watt Market along Calabar Road and the Marian Market along Marian are the two main markets in the town. Today the present administration seems to be deviating from the original tourism master plan, pursuing and industrialization agenda to make the state more economically viable as the present governor, Prof Ben Ayade, believes work has to come before pleasure. Another resident of the state, Ekeng Effiong argued against this, “They should know that tourism is business not pleasure. Tourism is the engine of Cross River. We are talking about a sector that sustains some countries and here you are describing tourism as mere pleasure, and that other things are more important. For you to sweep it aside because you feel that it is unimportant and it is just industries that are important says a lot about your sense of judgment. “It is said that if you are good at something you should make you money from it. So if the state has hospitality, serenity, warmness, smiles, leisure and a pristine environment, they might as well better their fortunes from it. It really beats our senses, this level of thinking. “We all witnessed the development that came with the tourism agenda of Duke. We witnessed all that came from this new tourism style. It was working. Everyone was talking about or coming to Cross River. It was making the state the talk of the world. The results were clear. It was something that showed potential for growth, in fact, it did. Now you come in with your own style with logic that if you have to work first before you eat. That is a wrong analogy. Tourism is not playing. It is serious business. Now I am not even saying your own agenda is wrong, you know, everyone has his style to everything, but it does not invalidate the other idea. They can go side by side. They can be managed. But you come in because you want to assert yourself and you say this one is useless and the people that pursued it did not know anything, Effiong said.