Like most great novels, Chigozie Obioma’s An Orchestra of Minorities can easily be mistaken as the tale of the main characters. In this case, an average reader will see Obioma’s sophomore as the story of Nonso, a poultry farmer, and Ndali— who he calls Mommy. A deeper reader will discover much more in this tale set largely in Umuahia, slightly in Lagos and Abuja, and a lot in Cyprus. On the periphery, it reads like this: Nonso, a 24-year-old lonely orphan, sees Ndali trying to jump off a bridge into water. He persuades her against it. To show how painful it will be, he flings two of his prized fowls into the water. She rescinds her decision and both of them go their separate ways. They run into each other months later. Ndali feels she owes him her life. He is to find out that heartbreak was responsible for her attempted suicide. A relationship soon starts and before long, Nonso feels like marrying Ndali and tells her his plan. And then begins the real drama of their lives. Ndali’s father is rich, stupendously rich, and finds it difficult to accept an illiterate poultry farmer as son-in-law. Through Ndali’s brother, Chuka, Nonso is humiliated a couple of times. The humiliation gets him thinking and talking with Ndali and a friend, Elochukwu, and in the long run, he discovers that getting an education may swing things in his favour. Another dilemma sets in: with universities in Nigeria ever on strike, he wonders how many years it will take to complete a degree. Still, he picks the matriculation form, but soon opts for the option of selling his valuables and heading abroad for studies. Everything appears set until he gets to Cyprus and discovers he has been scammed. Cyprus turns out hellish. Passers-by call him “slave”. He is mistaken for the Brazilian football star Ronaldinho, and the jealous husband of an expatriate nurse from Germany who helps him turns things upside down. He turns out one of the minorities in faraway land and his shouts for help or his cries for bailout sound more like an orchestra without efficacious power. Returning home only aggravates things. And a lot more sad events follow, which you need to find out! But on a larger scale, An Orchestra of Minorities is deeper than just the tale of Nonso and Ndali. It is the story of the power of love, the sacrifice a man or a woman is ready to make for love not to suffocate and die. It is a wrestle between destiny and determination. It is rich in folklore and it is a morality tale, with betrayal and revenge as major themes. This tragicomedy told by Nonso’s chi, the word for guardian spirit in Igbo cosmology, is far more ambitious than Obioma’s critically acclaimed debut The Fishermen. No one knows you better than your guardian spirit, and using this all-seeing spirit as the narrator gives Obioma the opportunity to tell it all despite the fact that the narration is in first person. The omniscient nature of the chi also gives Obioma the leverage to dwell in the spiritual realm, such that parts of the book read like magical realism. We see the spirit taking leave of the host’s body to spy. We see the chi putting thoughts in the host’s mind in order to influence his actions. We see chis of two beings having a chit-chat. We also see a ghost crying in a bus pleading against a marriage on account that the suitor is a murderer. Of course, the one the ghost is speaking to cannot hear, only the chi does. And we see the chi at times helpless while Nonso faces the adversities of life. We equally see the chi fascinated by the workings of an aircraft, especially after taking leave of its host to wander outside of the plane thousands of feet above sea level. And, let me confess, this book has got me thinking whether it is my chi trying to influence the course of my life when thoughts are dropped in my mind. Since the chi is giving testimony before God, it gives the book an oral feel and makes it highly lyrical. The language is beautiful. The figurative language is amazing and rich. If you doubt me, take these samples: “Anungharingaobialili, when a man encounters something that reminds him of an unpleasant event in his past, he pauses at the door of the new experience, carefully considering whether or not to enter it.” And: “Ijango-Ijango, over many sojourns in the human world, I have heard the venerable fathers, in their kaleidoscopic profundity, say that no matter the weight of grief, nothing can compel the eyes to shed tears of blood.” I like the similes and metaphors in this staggering 516-page novel. Two of my favourite similes are: “like insects around a glob of sugarcane” and “like a thing with wheels into the future”. The proverbs are good too, really good. They are African, Igboish if you like; and it gives the book the Things Fall Apart feel. I must not fail to point out the subtle political sub-theme in the book. It is encapsulated in these words: “But he thought even more that these people were happy because they had been lifted from places where they were suffering into this new country. The plane had lifted out of the land of lack, of man-pass-man, the land in which a man’s greatest enemies are members of his household; a land of kidnappers, of ritual killers, of policemen who bully those they encounter on the road and shoot those who don’t bribe them, of leaders who treat those they lead with contempt and rob them of their commonwealth, of frequent riots and crisis, of long strikes, of petrol shortages, of joblessness, of clogged gutters, of potholed roads…and of constant power outages.” This is like telling the sad story of our nation in one relatively long paragraph. And from the look of things, changes are not about to happen. My final take: Obioma talks about long strikes, and ASUU’s strike coincided with the release of the book in the United Kingdom and the United States. We hear progress is being made. But will a day ever come when we will be back in the golden era when a four-year course will not be extended? This is a task that must be done because without it, we will remain in the hell we are and perish there.