•Nigerians want security agencies to ensure security rather than issuing warnings THE 2019 elections are considered so important that they have attracted attention, comments and concerns from many quarters, including international figures and institutions. The concerns stem from the population and influence of Nigeria within West Africa and the entire international system. There are fears that a disruption could affect oil production and escalate the refugee crisis in the sub region. The worries have not been allayed by a warning that the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major- General Babagana Monguno, issued while addressing a meeting of the Nigerian Governors Forum, that politicians allegedly plotting to disrupt polling would be dealt with according to the law of the land. He said politicians apprehensive of defeat at the polls are plotting the disruption, with a view to forcing a postponement. The Acting Inspector- General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, perhaps taking a cue from the NSA’s warning, and the precarious security situation across the country, pledged to ensure a mop up of illegal arms. He told the governors that criminals relying on illicit arms for kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling, communal attacks and assassinations, as well as political violence will soon be put out of business. The news is disturbing, to say the least. Innocent Nigerians have continued to wonder why insecurity has become so pervasive and what this portends for an election that would be concluded in weeks. We call for coordinated and concerted efforts by all the security agencies to avert the looming danger. The brickbats across party lines by politicians are unhealthy. Examples from Nigerian history and recent developments in other African countries have shown that intemperate utterances are the fuel for post-election violence. Given intelligence reports of plans to scuttle the elections on February 16 and March 2, all efforts should be made now to guarantee security of lives and property during and after the polls. This is an opportunity for the Buhari administration to write its name in gold as one that conducted a truly free, fair, credible and violence-free election. No one’s pursuit of power is deserving of Nigerians’ blood. The people are no longer thrilled when they receive supposed intelligence report of impending security breach because such warnings had yielded no result in the past. If credible intelligence was gathered, we do not consider open warning as the strategy to adopt. We expect the relevant security agencies to swing into action and swiftly bring the culprits to book. This is the only way to deter those who may be considering such dastardly action. We also expect the military to step up action around Borno and Yobe states, especially at the border communities. Increase in attacks on military formations and communities have raised fresh concerns about the capacity of the Nigerian state to protect her citizens. This could lead to fear of attacks on election days and, consequently, low turnout at the polling units. Only recently, the United States issued travel warning to her citizens in Nigeria. It is only logical that other western countries will follow suit. The task of elevating Nigeria to a point that elections would be a routine exercise is primarily for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the armed forces, the police and other security agencies. Nigeria deserves the best; so state institutions should deliver the best