The National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP) Department of the Federal Ministry of Health has said Nigeria has the highest number of people infected with tuberculosis (TB) in Africa. Its National Coordinator, Dr. Adebola Lawason, made  this known at a workshop organised in collaboration with Breakthrough Action and United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for health reporters in Nasarawa State. She said Nigeria has the sixth highest burden of TB patients globally and the first in Africa. Lawason, represented by Mrs. O. Shofowora, said tuberculosis is one of the top 10 causes of deaths, and that Nigeria is classified among 30 countries with high burden of TB, Multi-Drug Resistant TB (MDR-TB) and TB/HIV. “Tuberculosis is caused by a bacterium known as mycobacterium tuberculosis, which affects mostly the lungs. It is called pulmonary tuberculosis. Our goal is to achieve a 50 per cent reduction in the TB prevalence rate and a 75 per cent reduction in TB mortality rate; that is, excluding those that are co-infected with HIV by 2025,” she said. According to a 2017 global report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), it is estimated that two out of every 1,000 Nigerians have TB yearly. This is an estimated figure; the actual figure might be scarier. “In Nigeria, in 2017, out of over 407,000 people we are supposed to reach who have TB, we got only 104,000. The remaining 396,000 are still at large. Of the 104,000, we have recorded 10 per cent deaths. Most people who are infected the most with TB are within the reproductive ages of 15 years to 44 years. “Also, one single person with pulmonary TB can infect between 10-15 people in a year. This is an estimate. At least, 18 people die every hour as a result of untreated and unattended cases of TB. The awareness of TB is very low, and some people don’t even want to know. TB bacteria can be suspended in the air for up to 8 hours; that is, between four and eight hours. The bacteria cannot strive under sunlight or in a place that is well ventilated,” Lawason said. Officials attributed the high prevalence to low level of awareness, caused by insufficiency of funds for the programme at the national, state, and local government levels. She urged the private sector and other public-spirited individuals to join the fight to end the spread of the disease, adding that the government cannot do it alone. “TB is transmitted when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or spites into the atmosphere. Persistent cough of up to two weeks or more may be due to TB and may need further investigation. Our health-seeking behaviour is that we go to the chemist first before going to the hospital; we need to change this behaviour. Loss of weight, excessive sweat, and loss of appetite are part of the signs of TB. “TB is curable and the patient is not infectious after two to three weeks of treatment. The test and drugs are also free at least in all public hospitals and some private hospitals. If anyone shows some of the signs of TB, all the person needs to do is subject himself to test. If it is confirmed to be TB, the drugs will be given to him for free. “Once a patient is put under a medication, he or she must finish the drugs so that the bacteria are expunged from the body. Preventive measures are to avoid poorly ventilated and overcrowded environments; cover mouth properly when coughing and not spitting indiscriminately in the public; early detection of TB, diagnosed promptly, and early commencement of treatment will reduce the ability of the patient to infect others; also, eating a balanced diet to avoid malnutrition,” she added. 