A man prepares his house as a death chamber where he and his two children burn to death. Neighbours wonder why, FRANCA OCHIGBO On December 27, 2018 when people were busy with the euphoria of Christmas and New Year festivities, a man was busy planning his death and that of his family members. On December 26, he was sitting with neighbours outside his apartment chatting and at the same time sending the kids to buy firewood for him. The neighbours said it never occurred to anyone that the man was going to take his life through any means. While they were still outside chatting, he called refuse collectors to ask how much they would buy his sleeping mattress. They bargained and settled at a certain amount. The mattress was sold. Even with that no one suspected or even imagined his intentions. Mr. Adakole Ocheke was over 60 years of age, and resided in a village in Nasarawa State, a suburb close to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He was married with three children, one of them grownup, the other two children. He was of the Idoma tribe in Benue State. According to neighbours who were eyewitnesses, a few days to his death between December 24 and 27, 2019, he insisted that his wife move out. She opted to stay with one of the daughters who had just given birth, leaving the man alone with the two kids. It never occurred to her that the husband was planning anything dangerous. “Now after selling his mattress, he got cartons [cardboards] to sleep on. When it was night time, they all went in to sleep; he slept on the carton on the ground, and made fire with the wood he bought earlier in the day. The fire was burning when they went to bed. Because he did not have a mattress anymore he had to sleep on the carton on the floor, how the fire ended up burning down the whole house, with him burnt to ashes, the two kids holding each other, bonded and found dead in the morning, is still a mystery no one can explain. “The only thing neighbours heard was shout for help at midnight and not coming from his bedroom but from the son’s bedroom. By the time they got there, his side of the bedroom had burnt down completely. They were actually looking for his corpse when they saw ashes gathered on the ground and realised that it could be him, and that he had sold his mattress earlier in the day. “The fire was so much that they had to first look for means of getting into the room, they saw the two children bonded together in death; it was the smoke that killed them, their bodies completely intact. The man being who he was, according to neighbours, would never allow the children to open the door. Knowing he would die, he must ensure he did not die alone, witnesses said. Neighbours who spoke with The Nation testified that he never provided money for housekeeping, because the wife complained perpetually of negligence, saying if not for her children it would have been hell. The two kids that died with him hardly ever ate. They were very malnourished. The only person he managed to take care of is his second wife who lives across the road. She had never been to his house; he went to meet her. Those who knew her said she is younger than the mother of his children who is in the same house with him. He bought things for her, took care of her needs. Even after his death while people were running all over to arrange for his burial and all that, the woman never showed up. Some neighbours said may his soul rest in peace; others said his soul cannot rest in peace because of his level of wickedness. While some said he killed himself, others said they are not sure he did.