Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company, the anchor bottler for non-alcoholic beverage giant- Coca-Cola,  has recorded six per cent improved revenue growth for the 2018 financial year above expected target and margins. This is in spite of currency fluctuations in some markets. Its Chief Executive Officer , Zoran Bogdanovic, said this in a statement obtained from London Stock Exchange (LSE) website, while offering details for the first time on its business performance since taking over in May last year. Bogdanovic said: “In 2018, the company delivered another very good performance with revenue growth above our target range and another step up in margins.  Strong volume growth in all our segments was helped by a record number of new product launches, whilst price/mix improved for the eighth consecutive year. This growth supported margin progress, which we delivered while increasing our investment in marketing.” Although the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations from Russia, Nigeria and Switzerland was heavy, net sales revenue for the company rose by 6.0 per cent in relative terms with 2017 financial year-end. “Net sales revenue for 2018 came in at EUR6.66 billion, up 2.1 per cent year-on-year against analyst consensus of EUR6.65 billion. Comparable earnings before interest and tax were EUR680.7 million, 9.6 per cent higher on 2017, compared to consensus of EUR682.3 million. The comparable Ebit margin was 10.2 per cent, up from 9.5per cent in 2017, against consensus of 10.3 per cent. According to FTSE 100 company, Coca-Cola HBC’s volumes rose 4.2 per cent to 2.19 billion unit cases, meeting consensus, with growth witnessed in all three segments.” Bogdanovic expressed confidence that the company would continue to witness unparalleled business growth considering its recent investment in both human and material resources. “Our sharp focus on cost efficiencies continues while we invest in the business for growth. The shape of the business, capabilities and commitment of our people and our overall commercial proposition give us confidence in our ability to continue to grow revenues and margins,” he added. With necessary infrastructure now made available in all its plants across the globe, Coca-Cola HBC is expected to grow its volume across all the segments in 2019 regardless of any economic slowdown. Coca-Cola HBC has also identified EUR33 million of restructuring savings this year, bringing EUR17 million of benefit on top of that from 2020.  