Motorists and commuters are worried by the frequent traffic robberies on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, urging the government and the police to come to their aid. Over 20 motorists and passengers were robbed around 7am yesterday between Ile Zik and Ajayi Farms in Ikeja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the bad spots on the road, which is being reconstructed to accommodate the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor, have turned into a traffic robbers’ den. The road users told NAN that they had lost valuables, including phones, laptops, watches, necklaces and cash. They said once the gridlock builds up, the robbers appear, wielding guns and forcing them to surrender money and other valuables. Those who wound up their window glasses were asked to wind down or have them broken. An Information Communication Technology (ICT)  consultant, Akinsola Ogunwale, said he was robbed at gunpoint at about 6:15am at Ile Zik, on January 29. “I was driving in traffic around Ile Zik and the next thing I knew, two men approached my vehicle and hit my car window with a gun. “While one was trying to reach for my back seat, the other collected my phone and tried to hijack my vehicle. The next chance I got, I sped off and escaped. “This morning on my way to work, around the same time, I noticed about 20 cars being robbed and no security personnel available to help the victims,” he said. Ogunwale said when he used information technology software to track his stolen phone, it indicated that it was at Ashade market in Ikeja. A civil servant, Kunle Adebiyi, said he was once robbed by a motorcyclist at 6:30am around Mangoro. “I left my house very early in order to beat the traffic, but unfortunately, I still got caught in the traffic and was robbed of my iPhone and wallet. “I didn’t want to struggle with the hoodlum because I have heard of cases when the victims were beaten up and injured,” he said. A trader, Mrs. Oleteju Adeyinka, said her phone was grabbed by the window while in a public vehicle by a hoodlum, who disguised as a plantain chips hawker. “It happened very fast and in broad daylight. He pretended as if he wanted to sell plantain chips and I was holding my phone. Within a twinkling of an eye, he grabbed my phone and started running. “By the time I got down from the vehicle, he was already gone. “These robberies have been happening for a long time and we thought it had reduced. “It seems it is on the increase now, especially around Iyana Dopemu, Mangoro, Ile Zik and Ajayi Farms where there is always traffic jam,” she said. A driver, Dami Ojo, said: “I’ve never been a victim of traffic robberies, but I know people who have gone through this horrific act. Some have been badly injured in the process. “Just recently, a video surfaced online of a man trying to steal from a moving vehicle. Unfortunately for him, he was caught and mercilessly beaten.” He urged the government to work in finding a lasting solution to the menace. Some victims said the robbers usually headed for the railway and escaped towards Ikeja. 