Every teacher’s dream is to complete their time in public service and sign off in sound health and fulfilment amid merriment. Mrs Olamide Christianah Idowu’s case was no exception. Beaming with joy amid friends, family, former colleagues and well-wishers, Idowu’s look gave her away as a fulfilled woman, having put in 31 years of her life into public service. Last Friday, she celebrated her last day in office and 60th birthday. With nostalgia, Mrs Idowu recalled her three-year stint as Vice-Principal at Estate Senior Grammar School, Ilupeju, venue of the event. She was then promoted Principal before being redeployed to Ransome Kuti Memorial Junior High School, where she eventually signed out. Among many achievements Mrs Idowu would be remembered for is the high pass rate in WASSCE when she was in the saddle as VP, (Academics) at Estate Senior Grammar School. Many, who worked with Mrs. Idowu testified to her hardwork and punctuality. “Mrs. Idowu’s time consciousness inspires me,” said a former colleague, Mrs Adeyomoye. “Tell her to get to a place by 8’o clock and she will be there an hour earlier. No wonder her name was never found in the late comers’ book,”she said. Mrs Bisi Aderogba of St Joseph Junior Secondary School, where the celebrator once worked, described her as an array of gems and stones. “She is truly an amazon in her career. She is an epitome of values, protocol and courtesy. She has always shown an infectious optimism and courage in discharging her duties. Yes, she is an array of gem and stones; a precious jewel,” she said. The celebrator’s husband, Mike Wale Idowu, also heaped praises and prayers on his wife for being a kind mother and companion. “Gladdy as I call her is a teacher, a role model, a mother and one who has spent the better part of her life serving God. She has served as a teacher for 31 years, rising to the apex of that profession, and retiring as a director and principal. I rejoice with her particularly, on behalf of the family. I pray that the remaining part of her life will be prosperous in good health, fulfillment in all ramifications.” The celebrator’s son, Adetola, expressed joy that her mother got to the zenith of her profession two months before she retired. “I’m happy she was promoted as Principal two months ago. Mum is hardworking, punctual, energetic, diligent, loving and good to anybody she comes across. She opens her arms to even extended family members and friends. That’s why a lot of them are here to celebrate her,” she said. Expressing her appreciation, Mrs Idowu said beyond her retirement, her ultimate wish is to serve her husband the more. “I’ve clocked 31 years in service and I’m 60 today; so I’m going to start serving my husband and my children. I’m happy to leave because I know I have beautiful things ahead of me,” she said. After retirement, Mrs Idowu is contemplating establishing a cradle school, saying another thing she would miss are the children, who often give her joy. She recalled the ups and downs when she was in service, especially a day her mobile phone disappeared mysteriously. Nonetheless, Idowu’s greatest joy lay in interacting with the students, the good, the bad and the ugly. “I’d miss my students as they’re all my children, but I have to face my children and grandchildren now. Maybe I would start a cradle school very soon. “And to my children, I must advise them to be focused, and face their studies. In the seven schools I worked in Lagos from 1988, I’m always the first person to get to school. Even till yesterday, I got to school by 6am, so I’d advise them to be up and doing,” she said.