The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday disputed the results being announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), describing them as “incorrect” and “unacceptable”. It also protested the cancellation of over 157, 000 votes in Nasarawa State. INEC yesterday announced the cancellation over what the electoral body described as irregularities and violent disruption of voting. It was learnt that the situation would be reviewed by the electoral body before announcing its final decision. PDP’s National Chairman Prince Uche Secondus also alleged flaws in the conduct of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections in other parts of the country. At a news conference in Abuja yesterday, Secondus said the nation’s democracy had come under threat of derailment, citing manipulation of election results, allegedly in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Secondus said: “Firstly, I want to categorically state that our collation centres have all original results from every polling unit, in every ward and in every local government area in Nigeria. “Secondly, officials of both President Buhari’s government and the APC, working with INEC officers, have tried to alter the course of history and disenfranchise our people through the cancellation and manipulation of figures for results already announced at polling units, nationwide, in local government areas where our party, the PDP, had commanding votes; this must now be resisted by every well-meaning Nigerians. ”Thirdly, the ruling party’s strategy has indeed been murderous, undignified, and disrespectful of the wishes of the electorate, our people and the international community who have been in solidarity with our nation as we attempt to strengthen our democracy and its institutions.” The party chair said despite efforts by the PDP and its agents to adhere to laid down provisions for the 2019 general elections, the APC and the INEC did not play by the rules. He accused the APC and the electoral umpire of inducements, manipulation and incarcerations, saying that the elements of state power were used as instruments of voter repression. Secondus identified the police, the Nigerian Army, the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as the agencies deployed to repress voters. He said: “This is disheartening, considering the terms of the Peace Accord, which called for impartiality and non-partisanship by members of our security organisations with constitutional roles to play during this civic exercise. “Fifthly, as results trickled in on Sunday, February 24th, 2019, clearly putting the PDP in the lead, the ruling party and President Buhari dispatched high-ranking officials to coercively influence outcomes in different geopolitical zones in the country. “For example, the Minister of Interior was dispatched to the Northwest of the country, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation was dispatched to the Northeast of the country, while the Attorney-General and Justice Minister was dispatched to the Southeast and Southsouth zones. “With the INEC IT server hacked by agents of the APC to manipulate results, we can with certainty state that results from the following polling units have, for example, been tampered with.” He listed the areas to include Sarkin Dawaki, Doka and Agyaragin-Tofa Wards in Doma Local Government of Nassarawa State. The party chair also said 10, 000 illegal votes were added to already announced results in Wurno Local Government Area in Sokoto State amid attacks on electoral officials at Lafia and police barracks polling units. Secondus said: “As if these provocations are not enough, our agents and officials are constantly arrested and in many cases locked up for complaining that Electronic Card Readers (ECR) were not in use in many Northern states, implying that all results from the Northern part of the country where the ECRs were not used should be voided in accordance with INEC guidelines. “”I also believe, the arrest of Eng. Buba Galadima, who has been a great symbol of what is courageous about our people goes to show that one man’s ambition is greater than our collective good, and most probably worth the blood of all Nigerians. ”In that context, I call for Buba Galadima’s immediate and unconditional release, as well as that of all officials and agents of the PDP, in the Southwest, who were mostly arrested on the eve of the elections where intimidation became the APCs sole election strategy. “Despite these provocations, intimidation and attempts to hijack our democracy and change the course of history, I must, in fact, convey to our good people the fact that the PDP is on course to victory and the Presidency; therefore, remain resolute and steadfast, because our party shares in your uncertainty and suffering, which must decisively come to a good end for us all. “Finally, and once again, we appeal to the leadership of INEC to remain impartial and not become willing agents to disenfranchise our people and derail our democracy, because the world is watching, and history will indeed pass judgment. “In addition, to the international community, we welcome your support for our democracy and extend our gratitude with great hope for our democracy.”