Chairman of National Peace Committee Gen. Abdusalam Abubakar (Rtd.) has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be focused on how best to reclaim its credibility and integrity in the rescheduled general elections. He also appealed to Nigerians to put aside the disappointment of the postponement of the general elections. The former Head of States, in a statement titled Nigerians: Rise up and obey the nation’s call, said: “After trying to explain your situation, it is now important to focus on how best to reclaim your credibility and integrity. “Patiently continue to focus on attaining internal cohesion and coordination. Do not give room to external enemies to infiltrate and destroy the confidence and trust that your organisation has earned. “Avoid panic measures, continue to communicate effectively with Nigerians and build up your confidence. Listen to the politicians but do not be distracted. “Perhaps, just perhaps, your being accused by both sides might be your vindication. You might still be vindicated in the end. Focus on the big picture.” While agreeing that there were reasons for people to be angry, Abubakar said: “The impact of this decision has permeated every stratum of our lives and has the potential to dampen the confidence of our people in the political process. “It has further deepened anxieties within the international community about our country.” Abubakar noted the disappointment should be seen as a battle that must be won collectively by all. “There is enough blame to pass around. The real challenge now is for us as a nation, to reach out to the deepest instincts of faith in God and our country. “We must put everything aside and see this as a battle that all of us must win. The challenge is not who to sacrifice, but what sacrifice to make.” “We must remain hopeful because God is perfect and all knowing. We are humans, He is the God of history and all power belongs to Him alone. “He will give to whom He wishes, how and when He wishes. We are merely instruments of His plans. It is against this background that we wish to appeal to our fellow citizens.”