The Federal University of Technology (FUT), Minna in Niger State, has said  the plaintiff in the plagarism suit against the institution, Olateju Mukaila, has undermined the university academic standards and damaged the reputation of its post graduate school. In the defense by the university counsel, Musa Suleiman Esq. of Summit Chambers, at the Federal High Court in Minna, the institution described the plaintiff as an    academic pirate, stating that his expulsion was the right displinary measure to be taken, given the magnitude of the offence committed. The institution, which urged the court to dismiss the case,  said the plaintiff was culpable of large scale plagarism even with the correction of the thesis after the external examination and the final copy, adding that the allowable 10 per cent similarity index is “a figment of the imagination of the plaintiff to justify the act, which has embarrassed the university community”. “At the end of the assignment of the committee set up by the institution, the Honorable Agoda John Halms (OFR) committee, which considered relevant and extant rules, found large scale theft of intellectual property of the co-supervisior in Olateju Mukaila’s thesis. “The plaintiff recklessly and flagrantly involved himself in large scale pilfering and theft of intellectual capacity. The plaintiff almost pulled off a mendacious misbehaviour ever attempted in the history of the Department of Urban and Regional Planning in the university.” The institution further explained that the displinary measures taken against the affected lecturers was due to the dissatisfaction with the role they played, adding that the committee setup to investigate the issue had to deliver disciplinary measures commensurate with their level of collusion and suppression  of information that advanced the wrongful misconduct of the plaintiff. The counsel to the institution then said the plaintiff case is frivolous and the reliefs sought are unwarantable or tenable in law, while denying the allegation of facts averred in the plaintiff’s statement of claim. The Judge, Justice Ali Adamu after listening to the defendant counsel adjourned hearing to March 18, 2019.