The Rector of Redeemer’s College of Technology and Management,(RECTEM), Redemption Camp,  Ogun State,  Prof Adedeji Daramola has said the institution was set to equip students with the right knowledge to be technically productive. He said RECTEM would be research intensive and technology based through its set patterns of exploratory innovations.  It will engage it’s students in rigorous academic study and practical exploratory discoveries. Speaking at the first matriculation of 52 students from nine departments in the college he said “the quality of our training is high and we are not comprising the quality of our students.  We are training the middle level manpower, to create a pool of highly trained technicians and technologists that will support the nation’s engineering infrastructural development as well as the growth and development of the country’s small and mediums Enterprises”. He noted that the founder of the college,  Pastor E.A  Adeboye had a clear concept to enhance the standard of technical education in the country through building the human capacity in the field of science, technology and management, thus his heavily investment in the college. He said the journey which started four years ago,  got licence to operate three months ago. With an affordable tuition fee of N190,000, excluding accommodation , he said students would be practically trained to meet the demands of the society. Daramola added that all the nine programme are of international standard and  approved  by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). The college is also awaiting the final approval of a new engineering programme-Civil Engineering by NBTE board. With that approval,  the college would have ten programs at its inception, having the record of been the only private polytechnic in the country to have approval for ten programme at its inception. It will also soon commence Mechanical Engineering programme after fulfilling all the requirements by the NBTE. The rector advised the students to always have the God factor,  be determined and focused to be successful in life. Earlier,  he  National Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church, Pastor Joseph Obayemi who represented the General Overseer, E. Adeboye advised that  wisdom, knowledge and understanding are the necessary virtues the college needs to imbibe to fulfill the mission of it’s establishment. He commended the founder for his courage and vision  to address the lapses in the technical education.