Former President Goodluck Jonathan left only $2.5 billion in the coffers of the federal government when he left government in 2015, the Director-General, All Progressives Congress (APC) Campaign Organisation, Rotimi Amaechi has said. He emphasised that the corruption allegedly perpetrated by the immediate past administration of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was traceable to the current harsh economy in the country. Amaechi, the former governor of Rivers state also revealed that former President Olusegun Obasanjo left $68bn while in office. He expressed concern on why Jonathan could leave $2.5bn for President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, alleging that the Jonathan’s government ruined the nation’s economy through corruption. Amaechi spoke in Akure, the Ondo State capital during the party’s presidential campaign rally held on Tuesday in Akure, the Ondo state capital. President Buhari at the occasion maintained that his administration has kept faith to all his electioneering campaign promises, especially on the fight against corruption. According to him, many corrupt Nigerians have been arrested and prosecuted in the last three and half years of his administration. The President assured that his government would intensify efforts on the fight against corruption if he is reelected. He said the money recovered from those found culpable of various corrupt offences will be used to develop the country. Buhari said “We are gradually winning the war against Boko Haram and Nigeria is getting secured. Boko Haram no longer operates in many communities in Borno State. In fact, they don’t operate in secular places again. Vice President Osinbajo assured that the administration of President Buhari will create one and half million jobs for unemployed youths if given the opportunity for a second term in office. He said the federal government had engaged 500,000 youths through the N-Power programme in the last three and half years and will do more if allowed to serve a second term. Osinbajo also promised an improved electricity supply in all parts of the country, adding that a new initiative tagged “People’s Money” which is a replica of the “Traders money” will be introduced
during the second term of President Buhari.