I had absolutely no problem identifying the country Chigozie Obioma painted in his latest literary offering An Orchestra of Minorities. In the country, many are poor and suffer; it is a land of lack; a land of man-pass man; a land where a man’s greatest enemies are in his household; a land of ritual killers and kidnappers; a land of petrol shortages, long strikes, joblessness, potholed roads; and epileptic power supply. And its people are glad escaping abroad. These problems did not start today. They have been with us for decades. Four years ago, we felt that the government in power was not doing enough. We were promised change by the then opposition party. The elections came and went and the opposition won. Our hopes were high, but it did not take long before we realised that the change mantra was just a campaign slogan. It was largely meant to win the elections and not to determine what would happen thereafter. To be candid, some changes have been recorded. We no longer have so much free cash running around. If anything has shown that, it is the scarcity of fund this electioneering season. This time four years ago, dollars were flying about. Some landed in the hands of traditional rulers; others in the pockets of political actors; and some trickled down to the electorate. Now, we do not have such free cash. We have seen almost no fund-raising dinner. We used to have many in the past, where billions were raised to buy votes. The opposition has accused the ruling party of scaring away businessmen who usually supported the political class with funds for campaigns. Another thing that has changed is the atrocities carried out by insurgents. Then, they used to be the lords of Sambisa. Now, they are scattered. But, let no one lie to us that Boko Haram has been defeated. Their decapitation is still far from reality. Not a few projects are also going on, such as the Second Niger Bridge, the rail projects, Mambilla electricity project, roads and many more. But I will be deceiving myself if I fail to say we expected more than these. The economy, for instance, has been having bouts of malaria. And from the look of things, changes are not about to take place. You may be wondering if I am now wishing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will upstage the All Progressives Congress (APC). My candid view: Like Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka, I have no confidence in both. All I want is change, real change! I also want ethnicity to stop rearing its head; I cry when the issue of who is an indigene insists on taking the front row; and I wonder why I cannot be an indigene of anywhere I choose to live in Nigeria. I want a president who will end the migration of Nigerians through the Sahara desert, a development which is akin to walking with eyes open into enslavement. The exodus is to escape the Animal Farm we currently inhabit. Most of the men and women who take this route are educated but hopeless. Please I need a President who will fix the health sector. Not a few have died this week all because what we call medical centres are consulting rooms that they have been since the military era. Even the private clinics where we pay through our noses cannot compete with their counterparts overseas. I want a President who will ensure we never go back into recession. The fears of relapsing into recession are coming at a time many in their private lives cannot feel the fact that we ever got out of recession. In fact, millions are in depression. In the past, our leaders have been callous in the management of our resources. Past error is no excuse for the current government not to change our fortunes like it promised. In Abubakar Adam Ibrahim’s award-winning Season of Crimson Blossom, a woman was well over 50 before she experienced what it really means to be a woman! It is not too late for Nigeria. We can experience the much-desired orgasm even at this age! The President I want is the one who can right the wrongs of the past. I want a President who will make nepotism a thing of the past. I want a President who will ensure no Nigerian feels left out because of which part of the country he or she comes from. This era of epileptic supply of electricity must end, and I certainly want a president who can do just that. It will be good that one day our electricity generating sets will only be useful for picnics at beaches and such places where temporary source of power is required. I want a President who will provide enough direction for members of the National Assembly to truly legislate in the interest of the people and not out of any pecuniary interest. I am sick and tired of the current situation where everything but national interest seems to take the first position. I also want a President who will give us a Nigeria where our schools can compete with others in the advanced world. I long for a President who will take Nigeria out of the Third World. What is wrong with being a First World? I look forward to a President who will deliver a Nigeria where we can reap from medical tourism instead of the current situation where we are the major loser to this trend. I look forward to a President who will make our economy so robust that we can hold our head high anywhere in the world and our green passport will command respect and not scorn. I want a President who will give us a Nigeria where oil takes the back seat and agriculture and tourism take the front seat and contribute more to our foreign exchange earnings and Gross Domestic Product (GDP). My final take: I want a President who will give us new songs, not songs of sorrow, not songs of despair, but songs of joy, songs of a country which experiences orgasm at old age and hold on to it forever! I do not want a President like Samusangudu in Adebayo Williams’ The Remains of the Last Emperor.