Adeola, Osinowo triumph in Lagos Kalu, Boroffice, Bamidele, Bashiru, Adetunmbi win Some giants have fallen in the fierce battle for the Senate – going by results announced by the electoral umpire. Dr. Bukola Saraki lost his bid to return to the Senate for the third time – and his hitherto firm grip on Kwara State politics. Saraki, who stormed Kwara politics in 2003 by riding on his father’s profile, lost to another medical doctor, Dr. Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe. Oloriegbe of the All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 123, 828 to beat Saraki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 68, 994. The loss is a major setback for the Saraki dynasty in 43 years since the patriarch of the family, the late Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, a former Senate Leader, dominated Kwara politics. The dynasty has installed six governors since 1979, hundreds of lawmakers at the national and state levels, councillors and chairmen of local government areas. According to the results released by INEC, Saraki was defeated in all the four local government areas in the district. The breakdown is as follows: Asa: APC (15,932), PDP (11,252); Ilorin East: APC (30,014), PDP(14,654); Ilorin South: APC (26,331), PDP(13,013) and Ilorin West: APC (51,531), PDP (30,075). Apart from the Senate President, others who will not return to the Upper chamber are the Senate Minority Leader, Mrs. Abiodun Olujimi (Ekiti South) and Senator Rafiu Ibrahim (PDP, Kwara South). Senators Olujimi and Ibrahim were beaten by Prince Dayo Adeyeye and Lola Ashiru (both of the APC). But electoral fortunes smiled on some leaders, who won senatorial tickets, including ex-Governor Orji Uzor Kalu (APC, Abia North); Prof. Ajayi Borrofice (Ondo North); Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central) and Senator Olubunmi Ayodeji Adetumbi (APC, Ekiti North), who dislodged Senator Duro Faseyi. Kalu polled 30,580 votes to defeat the incumbent PDP Senator, Mao Ohuabunwa, who recorded 21, 940 votes. In a landmark electoral contest for the first time in his political career, Adeyeye polled 77, 621 to trounce Mrs. Olujimi, who got 53,741 votes for Ekiti South District slot. Adetumbi defeated Faseyi of PDP by 60,689 to 49, 209. Opeyemi, a former House of Representatives member,  won the Ekiti Central Senatorial District for APC with 94,279 votes as against the PDP’s Adewale Obafemi, who scored 48,707. Ashiru garnered 89,704 votes to defeat Senator Ibrahim. Who got 45,176 votes. Shehu Sani (Kaduna South), who was elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), defected and contested on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). He lost to Uba Sani of the APC. In Ondo State, Boroffice polled 53, 199 to beat his challenger for the North Senatorial District, Dr. Tunji Abayomi of the Action Alliance (AA). Former Governor Olusegun Mimiko may not realise his ambition to represent the Ondo Central at the Red Chamber on the platform of his Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), it was learnt. Besides delivering his Bende Local Government Area to President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC, Kalu defeated Ohuabunwa. The returning officer for the senatorial election, Dr. Charles Anumodu, declared Kalu winner, with 31,203 votes. Ohuabunwa polled 20,801 and the candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, Chief David Ogba, scored 11,410. Ohuabunwa, however, rejected the result of the election in a statement issued by his campaign organisation, signed by Mr. Ukpai Ukairo. The incumbent said the results were still being collated. The statement reads: “It has come to our knowledge that INEC operatives in their haste to arrive at a pre-determined conclusion manipulated the electoral process to the shock of all well-meaning patriots who believe in democracy. “In this respect, it is tragic that INEC could conduct an election without the issuance of form EC40G, a form used to capture cancelled votes and places where there was no voting. “In the circumstances of the above, we demand that the Resident Electoral Commissioner in  Abia State should direct the Returning Officer of the Abia North Senatorial Election to make the requisite declaration in accordance with the dictates of Rule 17E(e) of the guidelines for the conduct of elections issued by INEC by cancelling the elections completely.” In Osun State, APC’s Ajibola Bashiru was declared winner of the Osun Central Senatorial District with 132,821votes. He  defeated Ganiyu Ola-Oluwa of the PDP, who scored 106,779. Lere Oriolowo (APC, Osun West) defeated Lere Oyewuni of the PDP to clinch the Osun West Senatorial ticket. In Lagos West Senatorial District, Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (APC) beat Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivor of the PDP. The result for the Lagos Central Senatorial District was still being awaited last night. Senator Oluremi Tinubu is APC’s candidate for the zone. The APC candidate for the Lagos East Senatorial Zone, Bayo Osinowo beat Abiodun Oyefusi of the PDP. In Edo State, Senator Francis Alimikhena (APC, Edo North) won with 1, 176 to retain his seat. In Imo State, Governor Rochas Okorocha looked good to represent Imo West Senatorial Zone as he was reported to have won eight out of the nine local government areas making up the senatorial zone. Senator Aliyu Wamakko (APC, Sokoto North) was set for victory. He was leading five of the eight local government areas making up the district as of the time of filing this report. In Akwa Ibom, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) suspended the announcement of the results in Senator Godswill Akpabio’s North West Senatorial District. It was over a controversy surrounding the result submitted from Akpabio’s Local Government Area, Essien Udim. The PDP senatorial candidate in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) was leading in three of the six Area Councils in Abuja. He was being closely trailed by the APC candidate The senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has won in three of the six Area Councils in the territory. This was revealed in separate presentations of results by Collation Officers to the Returning Officer, Prof. Sani Saka on Sunday in Abuja. In Abaji Area Council, Aduda got 11,290 votes to beat his closest rival and candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Mr Jisalo Zephania who got 11,276 votes. In Kwali Area Council, the PDP candidate got 17,642 to beat the APC candidate who got 14,899 votes. Also, in Gwagwalada Area Council, Aduda of the PDP got 29,567 to beat Zephaniah of the APC who got 22,318 votes. At the time of filing this report, results were still been expected from Abuja Municipal, Bwari and Kuje Area Councils. This was revealed in separate presentations of results by Collation Officers to the Returning Officer, Prof. Sani Saka on Sunday in Abuja. In Abaji Area Council, Aduda got 11,290 votes to lead his closest rival and APC candidate, Zephania, who got 11,276 votes. In Kwali Area Council, the PDP candidate got 17,642 to beat the APC candidate who got 14,899 votes. Also, in Gwagwalada Area Council, Aduda of the PDP got 29,567 to beat Zephaniah of the APC who got 22,318 votes. At the time of filing this report, results were still been expected from Abuja Municipal, Bwari and Kuje Area Councils. 