A man identified to be policeman was shot dead on Thursday in Ado Ekiti, the State capital, while trailing a gang of robbers. The Nation gathered the armed robber had earlier robbed a petrol station along Fajuyi -Secretariat road and were escaping through the old Iyin –Ilawe road when the police officer in a white hilux van sighted them and gave them a hot chase. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the police van had trailed the armed robbers up to NTA junction, where they were said to have waited and blocked the way in readiness for a gun duel. “When the hilux chased them up to that point, the armed robbers used their vehicle to block the way and rained bullets on the car. “The bullets hit the driver of the vehicle and died on the spot after which the robbers entered their car and sped off.” The sound of the assorted rifles brandished by the bandits were said to have caused confusion within that vicinity. People coming towards the Ekiti State House of Assembly cimplex and the State Secretariat and motorists going to Ilawe road were said to have scurried to safety to prevent being shot. “Some of the motorists had to take a detour and escaped the scene because the sound of the guns caused panic in the area,” he stated. Police officers from the State police command later visited the scene of the incident to evacuate the corpse, which they deposited in the morgue of the Ekiti State University Teaching hospital. Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti command, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, confirmed the incident. He said: “The attack on the police officer could have been a reaction of criminal elements to the cleansing operation being carried out by the command. “You know that since our new Police Commissioner, Mr. Asuquo Amba came on board, he initiated a Joint Task Force carrying out Operation Make Ekiti Safe and many criminals had either been arrested or killed in the process. “The men carrying out the operation were drawn from the Army, Police, Immigration and NSCDC. They were diligent in their duties and this might be one of those ways to frustrate us by criminals. “We are assuring our people that we remain focused. We won’t be bogged down by this incident and we shall trail the perpetrators of this crime and make sure they face the full weight of the law.”