Good day Sir, please can you buy food for my family? Since yesterday we have not eaten anything. Nothing is too small, even one cup of garri. I am sorry to stress you, but have mercy on my wife and children. Account name… (Details withheld). You are our last hope now and we are looking at you as our small god, even one plate of food will help us. I am still looking for a job, security or even houseboy…” I receive SMS like this regularly; sometimes, I strive against my will to ignore them for obvious reasons. But at other times I’m compelled to call the number that sends such message because of the tone. In those instances, I often find people who are genuinely in need and are seeking for help from any source whatsoever. What this should tell us is that people – maybe newspaper columnists themselves – are really going through tough times in our country. I know some reading this today might find it difficult to comprehend that there are people in our country who do not know where their next meal is going to come from. I’ve recounted this story before on this page before in the past but it needs recounting to drive my point forcefully home. During one of her numerous trips to our village, a relative approached my mother and gave her his eight year old daughter to keep her company as long as she desires. He complained that he could no longer provide food for her and her siblings and the most sensible thing to do is to “share them out.” The poverty levels in most of our villages are beyond comprehension! Unfortunately, this eight year old girl has a terrible habit of scaling the fence to go out. My mother did all within her powers to reform her but to no avail. Whenever she takes her back to her father in the village, she always meets a tearful response of “so how do I feed her?” But fearing the repercussions of something evil happening to the girl and her taking the blame, my mother had to painfully let go. There are millions of cases like these in our country and what this tells us is that poverty is on the rise and the current economic realities has further exacerbated it, especially now that poverty has made Nigeria its headquarters. Why are some people so poor that they can’t feed themselves? Why are there no safety nests in our system to cater for the vulnerable citizens in our midst? What is the nexus between corruption and poverty? Can good governance tackle poverty? According to the World Bank, the major indicators of poverty are: lack of freedom of action and choice; lack of adequate food, shelter, education and health; vulnerabilities to ill health; economic dislocation; maltreatment by public agencies; and exclusion from key decision-making processes and resources in society. Poverty is also the result of economic, political, and social processes that interact with each other and frequently reinforce each other in ways that exacerbate the deprivation in which people live. In essence, poverty is multidimensional. In their 2015 extensive report on corruption and poverty in Nigeria, ActionAid Nigeria delved into the issue of poverty and the role corruption plays in its continuous rise. Relying on the then National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) figure, they put the percentage of Nigerians living below the poverty line at 69 per cent (112.47 million). It stands at close to 90 per cent today. The report titled “Study of the Relationship Between Poverty and Corruption in Nigeria” examined the relationship between poverty, corruption and social crisis. It analysed how corruption affects different segments of the society; and the implication of these findings for social development. “Given the country’s enormous resources,” the report stated, “it is puzzling that such a huge portion of the populace lives in poverty. This vast incidence of poverty in the midst of plenty has severally been linked to the endemic corruption in the country, as it involves the massive stealing of resources that would have otherwise been invested in providing wealth-creating infrastructure for the citizens. “This perception is reinforced by an accepted position that corruption is a global incidence that tends to retard the growth of countries where it manifests. Corruption is also taken as having the tendency to exacerbate and cause conflicts, promote poverty, and impact negatively on the best use of human and natural resources. Some previous studies have shown that corruption remains a major hindrance to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.” Nigeria is considered one of the poorest countries in the world because it has some of the poorest human development indicators. In trying to tackle poverty successive governments have rightly focused on rural development. These interventions – which date back to the 1970s – include the National Accelerated Food Production Programme and the Nigeria Agricultural and Cooperative Bank (NACB) by the Gowon administration in 1972 and 1973 respectively. The first Obasanjo regime came up with Operation Feed the Nation (OFN), an integrated rural development strategy proposed by the United Nations in 1976 which was followed by the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme (ACGS) in 1977. The civilian regime of Shehu Shagari came up with the Green Revolution Programme, with the main aim of curtailing food importation and boosting crop and fibre production in 1979. The Buhari/Idiagbon regime rolled out the Back to Land Programme in 1984. Others are: The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), The National Directorate of Employment (NDE), The Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure (DFRRI), People’s Bank of Nigeria (PBN), Sure-P, YouWin, etc. In the end, these programmes failed to have substantial impact on poverty levels and some, such as the Green Revolution, DFRRI, NDE were criticised for serving as conduits for enriching senior civil servants and military officers who acquired large tracts of land (for the Green Revolution) at the expense of peasant land owners. The present regimes Social Investment Programme include N-Power, TraderMoni etc. Intended to reduce poverty in the country, most of these interventions had faulty designs and implementations. For instance, while some lacked targets, others had extremely ambitious targets which failed to consider technical capacities and budgetary limitations. In addition, the targeted beneficiaries had either very limited or no participation in the planning and implementation of these interventions. Because some of these intervention programmes lacked focus, they ventured into too many activities and became unsustainable. Tackling poverty has been an age old battle, while others make inroads in this battle, the lack of sincerity and purpose has been our bane. Policies were rolled out as avenues to siphon public funds and not to really help the poor. The GIS programme of the last administration where names of fictitious graduates were used to fleece Nigeria is a classic example. China has shown that it is possible to genuinely tackle poverty. It lifted 600 million of its citizens out of poverty within three decade. How did they achieve this? China invested in agriculture to reduce poverty and successful agricultural projects were built up from the grass roots. These were not top-down solutions. The Chinese government and World Food Programme selected the successful agricultural projects and implemented them throughout the nation. Data from the latest survey in the China Household Income Project shows that China has all but eradicated urban poverty. For a country with huge numbers of poor people streaming into its cities, many of whom living initially in conditions of abject misery, this is an extraordinary success. It has been achieved, in large part, because of a government subsidy paid to urban dwellers to bring incomes up to a minimum level of 4,476 yuan ($700). The question now is whether the government can repeat this success and eradicate extreme poverty entirely. The current economic and social five year plan (the country’s 12th) aims to eliminate all poverty by 2020 (10 years ahead of the newly agreed UN Sustainable Development Goal poverty eradication target. Since China has lifted more people out of poverty than anywhere else in the world isn’t it high time we critically study, analyse and learn how this was done with the foresight to domesticate such policy in Nigeria?