Tomorrow will be an interesting day. It will be better for some people; it will be bad for others. Some people will cry; others will rejoice. Although there are 73 candidates seeking to be president, it is a two-horse race between All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Muhammadu Buhari and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Atiku Abubakar. The also-in-the-race are: Moghalu Kingsley (YPP), Ositelu Isaac Babatunde (Accord); Abdulrashid Hassan Baba (Action Alliance);  Omoyele Sowore (AAC); Chike Ukaegbu (AAP); Shipi Moses Godia (ABP); Nwokeafor Ikechukwu Ndubuisi (ACD); Ezekwesili Obiageli Katryn (ACPN); Mailafia Obadiah (ADC); Yabagi Sani Yusuf (ADP); Nwachukwu Chuks Nwabuikwu (AGA); Umenwa Godwin (AGAP); Obaje Yusufu Ameh (ANDP) and Durotoye Adetokunbo Olufela (ANN). This list also includes: Shittu Moshood Asiwaju (ANP); Fasua Tope Kolade (ANRP); Ibrahim Aliyu Hassan (APA); President Buhari (APC); Shitu Mohammed Kabir (APDA); Gbor John Wilson Terwase (APGA); Yusuf Mamman Dantalle (APM); Obinna Uchechukwu Ikeagwuonu (APP); Dara John (ASD); Angela Johnson (AUN); David Esosa Ize-Iyamu (BNPP); Ojinika Geff Chizee (C4C); Abah Lewis Elaigwu (CAP); Etim Emmanuel Ishie  (CNP); Ukonga Frank (DA); Awosola Williams Olusola (DPC) and Osakwe Felix Johnson (DPP). The presidential ballot will also have: Dr Onwubuya (FJP); Okotie Christopher Oghenebrorie (FRESH); Akhimien Davidson Isibor  (GDPN); Eke Samuel Chukwuma (GPN); Albert Owuru Ambrose (HDP); Madu Nnamdi Edozie (ID); Chukwu-Eguzolugo Sunday Chikendu (JMPP), Fagbenro-Byron Samuel Adesina (KP), Kriz David (LM); Muhammed Usman Zaki (LP); Adesanya-Davies Mercy Olufunmilayo (MAJA) Bashayi Isa Dansarki (MMN); Santuraki Hamisu (MPN); Rabia Yasai Hassan Cengiz (NAC); Ademola Babatunde Abidemi (NCMP); Salisu Yunusa Tanko (NCP); A. Edosomwan Johnson (NDCP); Akpua Robinson (NDLP); Ishaka Paul Ofemile (NEPP); Asukwo Mendie Archibong (NFD); Atuejide Eunice Uche Julian (NIP); Ike Keke (NNPP); Maina Maimuna Kyari (NPC); Ibrahim Usman (NRM); Moses Ayibiowu (NUP); Felix Nicolas (PCP); Abubakar Atiku (PDP) and Ameh Peter Ojonugwa (PPA). They include: Victor Okhai (PPC); Major Hamza  Al- Mustapha (PPN); Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim (PT); Israel Nonyerem Davidson (RAP); Osuala Chukwudi John Kennedy (RBNP); Nsehe Nseobong (RP); Da-Silva Thomas Ayo (SNC); Ahmed Buhari (SNP); Balogun Isiaka Ishola (UDP); Mark Emmanuel Audu (UP); Inwa Ahmed Sakil (UPN); Nwangwu Uchenna Peter (WTPN); and Ali Soyode M. (YES). Although these also-in-the-race candidates will openly claim they are in it for victory, I believe losing will not come as a surprise to them; and they are not expected to cry. After all, what one knows already should not make one open mouth in amazement! The cries are expected from supporters of either Buhari or Atiku—depending on where the pendulum swings. Cries will also be heard among the 1,904 candidates vying for the 109 seats in the Senate and the 4,680 battling for the 360 seats in the House of Representatives. Figures from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) show that 225 women are contesting for senatorial seats. The figure is the highest in the country’s history. Not a few of them will cry tomorrow. The omens are scary. Will any of the incumbent governors seeking a space in the Senate have cause to cry? Five APC governors, Ibikunle Amosun, Kazeem Shettima,  Abiola Ajimobi, Rochas Okorocha, and Ibrahim Gaidam, made the list for election into the Senate. I have a feeling that at least one of the two oldest candidates, former Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Adamu (72) and Tanno Patrick Onobughakpo (71) of Kowa Party, will lose and cry. The race will also be interesting in Kogi State. Will Dino Melaye make it back to the Senate and make Smart Adeyemi cry? What fate awaits Godswill Akpabio and Senate President Bukola Saraki? Tomorrow will tell. Please in the spirit of tomorrow, let me once again share with you what I expect after tomorrow’s presidential race. All I want is change, real change! I also want ethnicity to stop rearing its head; I cry when the issue of who is an indigene insists on taking the front row; and I wonder why I cannot be an indigene of anywhere I choose to live in Nigeria. I want a president who will end the migration of Nigerians through the Sahara desert, a development which is akin to walking with eyes open into enslavement. The exodus is to escape the Animal Farm we currently inhabit. Most of the men and women who take this route are educated but hopeless. Please I need a President who will fix the health sector. Not a few have died this week all because what we call medical centres are consulting rooms that they have been since the military era. Even the private clinics where we pay through our noses cannot compete with their counterparts overseas. I want a President who will ensure we never go back into recession. The fears of relapsing into recession are coming at a time many in their private lives cannot feel the fact that we ever got out of recession. In fact, millions are in depression. In the past, our leaders have been callous in the management of our resources. Past error is no excuse for the current government not to change our fortunes like it promised. In Abubakar Adam Ibrahim’s award-winning Season of Crimson Blossom, a woman was well over 50 before she experienced what it really means to be a woman! It is not too late for Nigeria. We can experience the much-desired orgasm even at this age! The President I want is the one who can right the wrongs of the past. I want a President who will make nepotism a thing of the past. I want a President who will ensure no Nigerian feels left out because of which part of the country he or she comes from. This era of epileptic supply of electricity must end, and I certainly want a president who can do just that. It will be good that one day our electricity generating sets will only be useful for picnics at beaches and such places where temporary source of power is required. I want a President who will provide enough direction for members of the National Assembly to truly legislate in the interest of the people and not out of any pecuniary interest. I am sick and tired of the current situation where everything but national interest seems to take the first position. I also want a President who will give us a Nigeria where our schools can compete with others in the advanced world. I long for a President who will take Nigeria out of the Third World. What is wrong with being a First World? I look forward to a President who will deliver a Nigeria where we can reap from medical tourism instead of the current situation where we are the major loser to this trend. I look forward to a President who will make our economy so robust that we can hold our head high anywhere in the world and our green passport will command respect and not scorn. My final take: I want a President who will give us a Nigeria where oil takes the back seat and agriculture and tourism take the front seat and contribute more to our foreign exchange earnings and Gross Domestic Product (GDP). 