The defeat of Senate President Bukola Saraki at the senatorial election has signified the end of a political hegemony in Kwara State. SINA FADARE, who covered the elections in Ilorin, the state capital, writes on the implications for the Saraki dynasty. Classical writer  late Prof. Chinua Achebe probably had in mind the people of Kwara State in his celebrated novel: ‘Things Fall Apart’ when he declared that: “Things fall apart, the centre cannot hold, the falcon cannot hear the falconer, things fall apart, the center cannot hold” Achebe’s dictum was the best to describe the political revolution anchored on that slogan, ‘Enough is enough’ that swept the big masquerade, Senate President Bukola Saraki, off his feet. He thought that he had the financial muscle and political to swing the people of Kwara to dance to his orchestrated music, even if it was not good for their ears. His father, the late Senator Olusola Saraki, established the dynasty in 1964 when he meticulously warmed himself into the heart of Kwarans and earned himself the sobriquet, ‘Oloye.’ For almost five decades, he  combed the political field and endeared the people to him due to his robust and participatory political sagacity. Oloye was a political enigma and he left a big shoe, which his son thought he could put his leg and continue from where his father stopped. The dynasty has installed six governors since 1979, hundreds of lawmakers at the state and national levels, and chairmen of sixteen local governments. In his days and when in good mood, Oloye will hysterically said “the governor of Kwara State is in my pocket, l am going to bring it out at my convenience.” However, the Machiavellian tactics of the end justified the means employed by Bukola to oil his political engine could not go down with the people. The political forces within and outside the state ganged up against him and showed that the will of the people matters. Three school of thoughts emerged on why the Senate President lost his  grip on the state. The first is of the view that, immediately he rode at the back of his father to become the governor instead of gathering seasoned technocrats that could turned the fortune of the state for better, he assembled people who ordinary should have nothing to do with governance, but only hero worshiped him, a situation that made his eight years as a governor a mere political passage. According to these people, picking a successor among some of his stooge to further compounded his political woes because the state did not have anything to point to, in terms of development for another eight years. This encouraged a political revolution that eventually put him into the basket of history. The  second is the view that, despite his political advantage as the number three citisen, Bukola was far away from the people. He surrounded himself with few opportunists who dance to the tune of his music and were not ready to tell him the truth when it matter most. So, when the chips are down they deserted him to his fate The last school of thoughts is of the view that his successor, Abdulfatai Ahmed, allegedly dragged  governance into the dustbin by relegating the civil service  to a mere appendage of mandate group, the Saraki political group. Lamenting this a level 14 officer who simply identified himself as Abdulkarim, pointed out that his total take home package every month was N62,000, adding that this is not what is in operation in any state. Corroborating this assertion, at a press conference by retired civil servants, few days to the election, they pointed out that the state has shortchanged them and they are ready to take their own pound of flesh. Speaking at the occasion, the chairman of the forum, Mohammed Abidoye, noted that they are worried by decayed infrastructure and poor government policy, which eroded the civil servant in the mud He explained that the state has been subjected to miss-governance, due to poor leadership, adding that the concerned retired civil servant need to work with progressive mind  to bring sanity into the system. Challenging the retiree, an elder statesman and a grassroots politician, Alhaji LAK Jimoh, said the wind of change that was blowing will leave no stone unturned in order to return the state into path of honour. Jimoh enjoined the concerned retired civil servants to join hands with all members of the All Progressive Congress, (APC) to put a stop to age long suffering, poverty and political enslavement that has bedeviled the state. The grassroots mobiliser said that the time to bail the people of the state from poverty, penury and political enslavement of many decades is now adding that enough is enough “I enjoin all of you to come out in a massive way next Saturday day and vote for President Muhammadu Buhari once again so that he can complete the good work he had started. All these silent agitators eventually became the foot soldiers of that political revolution under the umbrella of ‘O to ge’ model to demand for a change in a radical form which eventually nailed the political coffin of Bukola. To Suleiman Abdulkadri, a politician and social crusader from Moro local government area, the policies embarked by the governor were anti-people, citing the case of relegation of  the Yoruba Obas in the local government while others are promoted. He explained that there was no basis where the government can anchor their campaign because it is obvious that there was nothing on ground to point at to warrant the people’s vote. Speaking to the Nation after the announcement of the result, Hon, Wole Oke a progressive grassroots politician who had been on the battle field for kwara liberation for decades said kwarans have received an amazing grace from God who has delivered the land totally from age long political slavery According to him, “the victory is a threshold of another history; the Berlin wall in Kwara has fallen and completely collapsed. We are now master of our own political fate and this is the end of godfatherism million in Kwara politics.” Reechoing Oke, a governorship candidate on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), Comrade Isa Aremu who claimed to have campaigned vigorously in all the 16 local governments said it was a joy to see a new dawn in the state. Aremu, who regretted that Kwara was ranked as 28 on the list of states by Gross Domestic Product, GDP, behind newest states like Imo, Edo, Oyo and Osun, adding that it was a tragedy that out of 10 kwarans, 7 are wallowing in poverty and penury due to bad leadership and undeserved political hegemony. With the booing of Bukola’s vehicle as he was departing in a hurry to the airport from Ilorin to Abuja last Sunday, political pundits are of the view that the curse allegedly heaped on him by his father has come to past. 