Former Lagos State Governor and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday met with hundreds of market women in Lagos. He urged them to rally support for the party’s governorship candidate, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, ahead of the general election. Asiwaju Tinubu openly presented Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, to the market women, telling the traders to take them as their sons. He described the candidates as “excellent administrators and good listeners”. The APC national leader addressed the market women at the residence of Iyaloja-General, Chief Folasade Tinubu-Ojo, in Ikeja. APC’s victory at the polls, he said, would extend the APC-led Federal Government’s mandate to sustain welfarist programmes initiated to assist market women and the poor across the country. Tinubu said: “As market women, you are not only our mothers, you are also playing important roles in political process and economic development. You have been pillars of support for our party and you have never disappointed us whenever we reach out to you for support. Today, we are presenting Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Obafemi Hamzat to you. These are two young, energetic and brilliant administrators, who listen carefully to advice. “We want you to take them as sons and give them all the support they need to continue the good work we started. They are good listeners; they are not stubborn. If they make mistake, be patient with them. I know the two of them will not make decisions that will hurt your interest.” He urged the market women to keep faith in APC, assuring them that the party would not take their support for granted. Tinubu said APC initiated TraderMoni particularly for traders to assist them to promote their businesses. He promised that there would be more incentives for market women and the poor if President Muhammadu Buhari is re-elected. Asiwaju Tinubu described women as “passionate voters”, saying the Buhari-led Federal Government deserved their votes because of the various welfare programmes the government initiated to support women. He advised the traders to work together and ensure the success of APC’s candidates across boards. Describing Sanwo-Olu as “a loyal party man”, Tinubu said the APC governorship candidate would work to reduce poverty. At the event were the Lagos State APC Chairman, Tunde Balogun, the lawmaker representing Lagos West, Senator Solomon Adeola, former Senators Musiliu Obanikoro and Ganiyu Solomon, and Director-General of Sanwo-Olu’s campaign, Tayo Ayinde, among others. 