Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, on Tuesday stormed the Bisi Market in Ado Ekiti to campaign for President Muhammadu Buhari. Egbeyemi, during the market campaign, also canvassed support for all the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates for federal and state legislative seats in the February 16 and March 2 elections respectively. He was joined at the market outreach by former Deputy Governor Prof. Modupe Adelabu and other party stalwarts. The Deputy Governor, who built the market during his tenure as Ado Ekiti Local Government Chairman, said residents have much to gain if they vote for APC candidates at all levels. According to a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Odunayo Ogunmola, Egbeyemi particularly called on Igbo traders to cast their votes for Buhari and APC National Assembly candidates on Saturday at all the polling units in the area. He also urged the electorate to vote for the APC House of Representatives candidate for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1, Mr. Olusola Fatoba; House of Assembly candidate for Ado Constituency 1; Oluwatoyin Lucas and House of Assembly candidate for Ado Constituency 2, Mrs. Adekemi Famuagun-Balogun. Egbeyemi described the candidates as loyal, tested, trusted and competent to contribute to law enactment that would bring better life to the electorate. The deputy governor enjoined all residents of Ogbon Ado and Ogbon Oba areas within the vicinity of the market to troop out en masse and vote APC to continue to enjoy good governance at state and federal levels. Egbeyemi stressed that although he won his unit and ward at last year’s governorship poll, he was not satisfied with the total number of votes recorded. Describing general elections as “family vote,” Egbeyemi urged all registered voters, especially the traders to vote overwhelmingly this time around for the APC. Massive votes for the APC, according to him, would afford the state government to make demands for federal appointments and projects that would be beneficial to the people. 