A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 1, Olusola Sokunle, has debunked an allegation that hoodlums, led by a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who is also an official of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), intimidated voters last Saturday. He said it was also untrue that hoodlums prevented Oshodi traders from opening shops on Monday. The lawmaker, in a statement yesterday, said the allegations were untrue, adding that such never happened in his constituency. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member representing Oshodi/Isolo Federal Constituency, Mr. Mutiu Shadimu, made the allegations at a news briefing on Monday. He alleged that voters were intimated by hoodlums led by an APC chieftain in Oshodi and the treasurer of NURTW in Lagos, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo, who also allegedly led the hoodlums to prevent traders from opening their shops on Monday. Saying the incident did not happen in his constituency, Sokunle said he had a duty to inform the public that the allegations were untrue. He said: “It is on record that Shadimu is known for falsifying claims when it comes to politics, just to curry sympathy and divide constituents along ethnicity. “Oshodi was peaceful during and after last Saturday’s elections. There was no report of violence either by the security agencies or the media until Shadimu came up with the divisive narrative of intimidation of voters by MC Oluomo, which to us is unfounded and a figment of his imagination. “On Sunday, the supporters of our great party, APC, were only seen celebrating the victory of our candidate, Dr. Bashiru Dawodu, who defeated Shadimu and his PDP in a landslide victory. “Because Shadimu saw our supporters and well-wishers rejoicing over the loss of PDP in Oshodi, he resorted to making unguided utterances and inciting the Igbo against the Yoruba and some APC leaders in the constituency.” Sokunle urged security agencies, especially the Department of State Services (DSS), to investigate Shadimu for making allegations that could cause ethnic clash in the constituency and lead to a breakdown of law and order. “I advise Oshodi residents to live as one family and go about their activities without fear. There is nothing like ethnic rivalry in the constituency. Oshodi is a peaceful place for everyone to live and do business. We shouldn’t allow a loser to use us for his selfish and personal gain.” 