The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) paid off an outstanding debt of about N4 billion and cleared over 6,000 applications within 12 months, its Director General Prof. (Mrs.) Mojisola Adeyeye has stated. She said the agency achieved the feat due to the spirit of transparency and accountability of the current administration. Between November 2017 and November 2018, the agency embarked on restructuring, which covered all the key departments to clear off all the mess inherited by Adeyeye, who was appointed on November 3, 2017 by President Muhammadu Buhari. Adeyeye, who took over from Professor Paul Orhii as Director General of NAFDAC, is Professor of Pharmaceutics and Manufacturing for 21 years at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, United States of America. Speaking at a one-day interactive meeting with stakeholders from South West Zone on NAFDAC Regulated Products at House of Chiefs,Parliament Building, Secretariat, Ibadan, Adeyeye on Tuesday reiterated commitment of the agency to continue to strengthen its regulatory framework to enhance the efficiency and improve its service delivery  to all its stakeholders. The NAFDAC, who said the agency has a statutory responsibility to safeguard public health, stressed it had imbibed best international practices and aligned with global regulatory standards. She urged all stakeholders to adhere to agency’s laws and regulations. “We are appealing to the industry to support NAFDAC by adhering to the Agency’s laws and regulations. “These are enforced to ensure that operations and activities are in line with NAFDAC’s extant laws and regulations. Self-audit and regular reviews of product information and labels are encouraged. “Companies should ensure that they remain a robust system, which allows for effective monitoring and control of their products that are already in trade. “This is necessary for effective intervention in the event of unexpected product defects, which may necessitate immediate product recall. “The responsibility of ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy of regulated products does not lie solely with NAFDAC but with all stakeholders.”