Candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State who have been barred by the courts from participating in the gubernatorial, national and state assembly elections will be weeping and gnashing their teeth over what the indiscipline in their ranks has caused them. The electorate who prefer them to their opponents will feel disenfranchised by the process, while their political opponents would feel elated at their enhanced chances of winning the election by default. But how will the ordinary man be convinced that a law that restricts free choice in an electoral process is a just law? That is our worry, and we doubt if he will appreciate the validity of a law that has technically excluded those who want to participate in an election, just because their leaders are entangled in a dispute over how the candidates should emerge. Indeed, they will see the law as an ass. But bad as the outcome is, the courts have merely interpreted the laws of our country on electoral matters. The culprit in the legal tango in Rivers State, and potentially in Zamfara, is the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (Fourth Alteration Act No. 21) 2017, itself a further amendment of section 285 earlier amended in the first alteration act 2010. That act S.285 (9) of the constitution (as amended) provides: “notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Constitution, every pre-election matter shall be filed not later than 14 days from the date of the occurrence of the event, decision or action complained of in the suit.” In sub-section 12, it further provides: “an appeal from a decision of a court in a pre-election matter shall be heard and disposed of within 60 days from the date of filing of the appeal.” So, it is a combination of the provision of the constitution (as amended) that has done-in the candidates of the APC and those who prefer them in the forthcoming general elections in Rivers State. Why then have we enacted a law that has clearly disenfranchised our citizens in a participatory democracy on the altar of technicality? The provision has become a form of albatross on participatory democracy, which is the fundament of the 1999 constitution. That should worry every democrat, regardless of party affiliation and we urge the National Assembly to re-consider the provisions of the law to gift the country a freer choice. A democracy will not be worth its name if the law becomes a shackle instead of an enabler. It should be such as to accommodate the disputes arising from liberal democracy. Perhaps the laws should enshrine a deadline for disposing of all pre-election matters ahead of the general election with room for a fresh nomination exercise. This way, the courts would have quieted the intra-party issues with regards to candidates, and any rumbles will be extra-legal or even illegal and impotent because they will not be exercised into effect by way of prosecution or judicial verdicts. This will compel parties to structure fresh and agreeable nomination process ahead of the deadline. Of course, we deprecate the indiscipline within the parties, and acknowledge that a price should be paid for such. But we doubt if debarring a party from participation in an election is not an over-kill. We acknowledge that the law is the law. Our laws must also appreciate that parties are mostly a cobbling of divergent interests and not an organic whole. While the benefiting parties in River State may feel elated at the opportunity handed over to them by the courts, they should ponder how the public would have received the development if the dominant party at the centre had been the beneficiary of the judgment and others the loser. Considering the volatile nature of the state, would those affected not have interpreted it in such a way as to cause serious security breach? How would the ordinary folks understand that their party’s candidates are barred from participating in an election which they are expected to adjudge as free and fair? For the APC in Rivers State, this year’s gubernatorial, national and state legislative elections can be anything but free, fair and credible. An election will only be free if the voters are free to make a choice from amongst those that have freely submitted themselves as candidates. The election will only be considered fair if the same standards are applicable to the electorate and the candidates. To consider the process as fair, all the willing and qualified voters and candidates should be free to participate without any undue inhibition or hurdle. Also, an election would be deemed as credible if the procedure, from registration of voters, the nomination of candidates, the voting and the work of the umpire are not unduly inhibited. In Rivers State, there is no way the supporters of the APC and their candidates would not feel cheated by the electoral process, which has disenfranchised them. It will not matter that it is the recalcitrant conduct of their leaders and a few members that have put them in the quandary. So, a political system must be elastic enough to accommodate the rancorous nature of party politics, otherwise the rigidity could mar the entire process.