World football is about to witness another Ijeh in the mould of fast rising sensation Evelyn Ijeh, daughter of Nigeria ex-international Peter Ijeh. Though she has opted to play for her adopted country and place of birth, Sweden, she shared with TAIWO ALIMI how her famous father and fatherland contributed in shaping her destiny. Nigeria’s ex-international Peter Ijeh used to take his children to see all his games as a prolific scorer with Vikings in Norway, and his daughter, Evelyn, took the experience to heart. “My first encounter with football was when I was six years old. My father used to bundle us to stadium at Norway when he played for Viking. Whenever he scored and everyone screamed his name, I felt it in my spine and since then I wanted to experience that too,” recounts Evelyn Ijeh, who has taken up the boots of her retired father and hitting headlines with her goals in Sweden. She plays for Swedish top side Goteborg FC as well as the U-17 and U-19 national teams of Sweden. Though her father had been taking them to his matches in Sweden, where he became an instant hit with Malmo FC, and later at bigger club, Goteborg, where he scored a combined 47 goals in four seasons, Evelyn and her siblings were too little to comprehend it. “When he moved to nearby Viking (Norway), I remembered vividly that he scored many goals and his name was always being chanted. We were all proud of him and often got special treatment in school and from our colleagues.” Peter scored 39 goals in Viking. This got into the psyche of little Evelyn. “I developed love for the game and wanted to be like him when I grow up. I wanted to play football and score many goals like my father,” she says. There is no doubt about the great influence her father is having over her; so much that she preferred the offensive role like him. She says she likes to create goals and get her name on the score sheet. “Actually, it doesn’t matter where I play. I started from the defence, but it is fun to have an offensive role in which you participate and create something. I have scored a couple of goals in my club and national team and I love that attention.” She also loves to wear bandana of different colours, a style she may have copied from her father who loved to wear black bandana during his early career. “True, my father used to wear different kinds of hair style while playing. Sometimes he would do braid and use bandana to hold it in place. When I started wearing bandana, it was for same purpose but not because he had worn it. I was just doing my own thing.” She, however, admitted she had a lot in common with her father. “I am a lot like him and that should not come as a surprise because I am my father’s daughter. I am proud of what he has done and he is proud of what I am doing now,” she hints. This is not unconnected with the tie father and daughter share. “When he started off as a coach, he taught me many things and even now, he is always at my games, not interfering, but telling me I must work harder to get to the biggest stage. “It is tough to be an Ijeh, but an Ijeh is what I am and want to be,” notes Evelyn even as she speaks on sundry issues in a frank more question and answer session. Do you feel an extra pressure on you, being an Ijeh? It comes with its pressure but I like my last name. I have not chosen to play football just because dad did it but because I think it is fun. We know your dad well, tell us about your mother He name is Elizabeth. She taught us to be tough. She is tough herself. She prefers to watch my clips after games and I think she cannot stand the hard tackles. Sometimes she gets upset when I get tackled. Then she barks at the referee. Why did you opt to play for Sweden and not Nigeria? My father came to Sweden as a young man and I was born and bred here. We are conscious of our Nigerian root because he (their father) is always talking about it. The opportunity here is good and my family think I should take it and see how it goes. I still have a long way to go and a lot of hard work to put into my games. We had a long discussion about this and we all feel it is the best for me now to take the opportunity. I am conversant with the style of play in Sweden and there is still so much to learn. As a former player for Goteborg, did your dad influence things? It was when my father was in Viking that I started playing football, but it was heading nowhere until we moved back to Sweden. My father helped me get back into the game and I was playing with the guys in school. It was there that a friend who played with IFK Gothenburg encouraged me to come for their training and so I started playing with them. My father only helped me to improve my game and be ready for matches. Did your father influence your offensive position? Actually, it doesn’t matter where I play. I started from the defence, but it is fun to have an offensive role in which you participate and create something. You got a contract with Goteborg in 2018, how did that make you feel? I appreciate that very much. But it is just the beginning. It has been great fun and exciting to take the big step. It has taught me many new things. Tell us your experience in the national teams It has been both fantastic and a challenge. In the national team, I play with girls who are about as old as me, but in the team I play with older players. Being able to combine it is positive. I develop more as a football player and I can also learn two different ways to play, both from the club team and the national team. It was not all that easy though. I sat on the bench understudying many months both at club and national levels. It is awesome to get into the main squad and play regularly. I have been inspired to work even harder. At the club level, it is awesome to be involved and try to take a seat in Sweden’s second best women’s team. But sometimes you feel like a newcomer too. It is tough. Yes it is. I have to perform at the top in order for the coaches to see me. When you do miss, it feels a bit difficult sometimes. But then I know that everyone makes mistakes and that it is important to learn from them. It’s nothing to worry about. Repeat and do right, I think then. What are your goals for 2019? I will try to get as much playing time as possible in the A team. I check on the established girls how they play and how they solve different situations. I am still looking at my options whether to take up professional football or study to become a doctor or lawyer or an economist. I am still in school and these are the options I can pursue. But if I become a pro footballer them my dream is to play for a good team abroad. I have many favourite teams – PSG, Chelsea, Manchester United, and Barça. Between Nigerian and continental food which do you prefer? My father introduced us to Nigerian dishes. I love Nigerian soups. My indulgence is the local dishes which is natural because we grew up in that part of Europe. It is home.