Health workers under the aegis of Joint Health Workers Union ( JOHESU ) paralysed activities at the Federal Ministry of Health Monday, demanding immediate implementation of the collective agreement reached with workers. The protesting JOHESU members also called for a holistic turn around the health sector to enable Nigerians have access to quality healthcare. They kicked against unjustified withholding of the salaries of JOHESU members for the months of April and May 2018 and also called for upward adjustment of CONHESS salary structure. The workers according to a staff of the ministry, arrived at the ministry complex in large number carrying placards with several inscriptions, threatened to mobilize Nigerian workers to come out with their mattresses, pillows and cooking utensils to the Federal Secretariat Abuja and also the houses of the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole in both Abuja and his village in Osun state. Addressing the workers, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Waba who decried the discrimination being meted to health workers in the country said for peace to reign in the sector, there must be justice adding that has written to the President, Minister of health and the Minister of Labour and Productivity on the need to resolve the dispute in the health sector but has not received any response from them. Waba who criticized the Minister of Health for implementing No work No Pay rule in the health sector said, “The law of No work No Pay is a military decree. It is decree 54 of 1977. No government in the history of Nigeria either military or civilian has implemented it. Why should it then be implemented if they didn’t implement collective bargaining agreement. He who goes to equity must go with clean hands. Therefore you cannot benefit all and all that we have already also violated another law “We will continue to fight. Let us be ready. Anytime you hear that we are reconvening here, you should come with your mattress and pillow. We are going to get people to cook here, we will sleep here. The minister has said that he doesn’t want peace in the health sector he cannot also have peace in his family, village and wherever he is. I want to assure you that we cannot be deterred. Nobody can associate your action which is legitimate to any political association. Also speaking, JOHESU President, Josiah Biobelemoye, said the peaceful protest was in response to deliberate attempt by the health minister to disrespect various agreements government reached with the health workers. He observed that the union’s plan was to locked down the ministry and occupy it till their requests were met, but they toned down their action because of the intervention by the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). He said, “Most worrisome was that they have violated several parts of the order of the National Industrial Court. They have equally implemented no work no pay, which was contrary to the suggestions of the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) team. “We never requested for equality. We only requested for equity. We ought to have commenced a nationwide strike on Monday or Tuesday, but swift intervention came from a highly respected clergyman over the weekend, who pleaded for more time to intervene. “We have agreed to soft pedal and watch the outcome of the intervention this week. We won’t hesitate to embark on a strike by the end of this week if we fail to get positive response.”