A kidney patient struggling for his life and seeking financial assistance for a second transplant has discovered that the money donated by public-spirited individuals has been diverted to a different account. FAITH YAHAYA reports He moves from one calamity to another. First, his kidneys collapsed. His family did everything possible to raise money for a kidney transplant. Then, he had an auto crash, which badly affected his grafted kidneys, necessitating another transplant. They hit the streets again, only to discover that a fellow said to known to the family has diverted the incoming funds to his private bank account. It reads like the multiple tragedies of an afflicted man. That is the story of Joshua Onyeke, a 40-year-old man from Benue State. He was diagnosed with End Stage Renal Disease (kidney failure) in 2005 and had a successful kidney transplant in December 2005. After the transplant, Joshua had a normal life and even went ahead to marry in 2013 but in the same year, he was on his way along Keffi-Abuja Road when he had an accident. The accident affected his grafted kidney. According to his elder brother, Abraham Onyeke, the family rallied round and raised a million naira for him to have the failing kidney revived in India but he was told his two kidneys had packed up. This made him resort to bi-weekly hemodialysis and blood booster treatment as a temporary measure to avoid blood transfusion pending when he would get another kidney transplant. For a driver and a widower who used to earn N55,000 from UBA until this year, the N50,000 to N60,000 weekly cost of dialysis has become unaffordable. He said he sold off all his properties and having nothing more to sell, he resorted to seeking financial assistance from members of the public. With his brother’s help, over 100 letters were drafted and addressed to individuals, organisations, churches and parastatals seeking for help. The letters had his medical record, the amount required to undergo the surgery and his picture to show the authenticity of their claim but because of the busy schedule of Abraham, the letters were handed over to a family friend, Goodluck Onyewenyi to help send across to the addressees. To the family, the letters had been sent out and they were hopeful that good Samaritans would start paying into Joshua’s account. But no one was making any remittances to the designated. Rather, Goodluck, it was alleged, altered the letters to be sent out. The family said their hope was dashed as they did not get feedback from anybody. “We felt people were not willing to help,” Abraham said. Narrating what happened to our reporter who went to visit Joshua in Stafford Dialysis Renal International in Lokogoma area of Abuja where he was undergoing his dialysis, his elder brother said: “It all started early 2005. He is a driver with UBA Plc and in 2005 he started having hay fever. He went to Zankli hospital in Abuja but nothing was immediately diagnosed. When they finally did, his two kidneys were already affected and he was referred to National Hospital Abuja. There, he commenced dialysis. He was on dialysis for months but because he was working with UBA, the bank came to his rescue and assisted him to India where he had his first transplant in December 2005. In 2006 March, he arrived Nigeria after a successful surgery and he went about his normal life, work and even got married. Unfortunately in 2013, on his way along Keffi-Abuja road, he had an accident that led to the failure of the graft kidney. We never knew on time but when the symptoms came up, we ran around and looked for about a million naira for him to go back to India where he had the first transplant to see if they could revive the failing graft kidney but he was told that his kidney had parked up and that he needed to go back for dialysis until he is able to raise money and get suitable donor for a second transplant. “He came back and we have been on dialysis since then at Wuse General hospital or Stafford Dialysis Renal International when Wuse does not have material. The dialysis cost us N50,000 weekly and sometimes, in a week where he has to take some blood injection booster, we pay up to N10,000 for such. So, such weeks, we pay N60,000. The cost is actually high and we have been managing. We have sold so many things in order to cope with the expenses in addition to help from sympathizers and well-wishers since 2013 till date. In 2017, it became really tough because we had sold everything. So, we resorted to writing letters to high-network individuals, companies and parastatals for financial assistance. Prior to that, AIT also came to cover him and we about realized N700,000 which is not close to the amount needed. We need $25,000 but because of the instability in the exchange rate, if you do the calculation you will arrive at about N7million to N9million. I am saying N9million because outside the air ticket for the three persons; the patient, the donor and the assistant who will take care of them, their feeding and other logistics makes the money to be about N9million. When we got the N700,000, we had to use it for dialysis while still looking for other alternatives. “So I drafted the letter to some churches, individuals and others and I gave the copies of the letter to Goodluck Onyewenyi. Onyewenyi was someone we met in Wuse hospital who was also there with a kidney failure patient but we got along because we had something in common until he lost the patient he came with. Goodluck became very close to us to the point that we could describe him as a family friend. He also accepted to offer a helping hand where he could. So, on that note, I gave him those letters to help me post with a sum of N20,000. He went with the letter. Unknown to us he went home with those letters. He went further to do change of name in the newspaper, impersonated Joshua. The letters I wrote had Joshua’s details to show genuinely that Joshua was ill. He falsified those things, did a court affidavit, went to the bank to change his BVN and changed his name to Joshua Onyeke. He proceeded to open an account with Zenith Bank, the account numbers on the letters were changed from the real Joshua’s own to Goodluck’s own and finally, he posted the letters. “People started responding to the appeal but we never knew and we just felt that people were not willing to give. Unknown to us, people were actually responding for him to have a kidney transplant. One fateful morning when some staff of AEDC went to Wuse hospital desiring to help in their own personal capacity but they wanted to confirm if Joshua was actually receiving treatment there. Fortunately for Joshua, they met him on the machine and they asked if he was truly the one. They brought out his picture because we attached Joshua’s picture on each of the letters that were posted. They confirmed that he was the one. Joshua requested to see a copy of the letter, when he saw the letter, he discovered that the bank had changed from UBA to Zenith Bank. “We started investigating and we discovered that it was Goodluck that opened the account. As at the time we discovered this, N4.7million had already been donated to the account. We went to the police, police got a court order to freeze the account to forestall further withdrawals but before we could go through all the processes, he had withdrawn all the money. “That is the point we are at the moment and we are calling on Nigerians to still come to our aid. I am not even bold to ask for help again because people will think we are fraudulent and Nigerians who have seen what Goodluck did will not be willing to help again but I am still appealing to Nigerians to come to our aid because Joshua is still alive, he needs the transplant. He has a donor already but the money for the operation is what we are looking for. We really need help. Anybody who is still willing to help can make donations into this account; Joshua Onyeke UBA 2009692590.” Recounting the role he played in stalling the transplant, Goodluck said: “Joshua is a kidney failure patient in Wuse General Hospital. I met him when my brother had a similar problem. We have been together for a very long time until we decided to open an account for financial assistance for kidney transplant in India. Later, I changed my name to his name, I swore an affidavit and also changed my name using newspaper publication. I went ahead to open an account with Zenith Bank. I wrote to the public soliciting for assistance and I backed up the assistance letter with his medical record to prove that it was a genuine case. I made over N4 million from those who rendered help after the letter was sent out.” On how he was arrested, the Commissioner of Police in charge of FCT, CP Bala Ciroma said: “On 14th January, 2019, following a complaint, Police detectives launched a discreet investigation that led to the arrest of one Goodluck Onyewenyi ‘m’ 40 years for fraudulently opening a bank account with the name of a patient suffering from kidney failure and in dire need of financial assistance to undergo kidney transplant. The suspect who happens to be a family friend to the patient took advantage of the relationship to write wealthy individuals, corporate organisations and highly placed government officials for financial assistance. “The suspect has used a bank account he opened in the name of the patient to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the suspect uses names of patients identified to be suffering from kidney failure to solicit for financial assistance which he converts to his personal use.” The CP said investigation was on to determine the amount of money he collected from individuals, identify the individuals with a view to returning the funds to them and prosecute him.