Two observer groups yesterday rated the conduct of Saturday’s  presidential and National Assembly elections above average. They said that the poll conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was “relatively well-executed.” Besides, they also urged likely losers to shun violence and follow the Rule of Law in seeking redress. The missions – Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) and Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) – made their position known in a preliminary report on the elections. The report was signed by TMG Chairperson, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi and HEDA Chairman Suraju Olanrewaju. The preliminary report said: “Voter turnout was generally encouraging, though it was low in some polling units observed by our field observers. “According to INEC guidelines, accreditation and voting should be done simultaneously. Accreditation of voters apparently proceeded generally smoothly. There were incidents of accreditation difficulties. The secrecy of voting was guaranteed in most of the polling units. However, there were cases where secrecy was compromised. “Voters were observed to have arrived at many polling units well ahead of opening time. This was witnessed all over the country including: Lagos, Ogun, Jigawa, FCT, Abia, Taraba, Kebbi, Kano, Adamawa, Edo, and Kwara, among others. “Vote counting and result declaration processes generally proceeded without many incidents. “Reports from our observers indicate that counting and sorting of ballots were done openly in the presence of the party agents, security personnel and election observers in most cases. “Observers reported that results were announced and displayed in conspicuous places for people to see.” Although the observers said security was adequate, they decried massive deployment of personnel in Ganaja, Ajaokuta Local Government Area of Kogi State. The report added: “Security was generally adequate with paramilitary and security forces deployed to provide security during the period of election. “Female officers also reportedly played important roles in ensuring peace. In most places,  these security personnel were civil, coordinated and displayed high level of professionalism. “Nevertheless, voters expressed apprehension over massive deployment of security personnel in Ganaja, Ajaokuta Local Government Area of Kogi State.” The observers claimed there were cases of violence in some parts of the country. The report said: “Our field observers reported violence in the following places: A nursing mother reportedly sustained injury from stray bullet in Bonny LGA of Rivers State. A TMG observer was arrested and taken away at Community School, Izombe in Oguta Local Government Area, Abia State on the instruction of a former IG. High level of violence in Abbonema, Ogbakiri ward 1, Emohua LGA and Asari Toru Local Government Area, resulting in the killing of a soldier and six assailants in Abbonema. “In conclusion, the Election Observation Platform is of the preliminary opinion that the election was relatively well-executed. The lapses observed were consistent with our experiences in previous elections. “We urge all stakeholders not satisfied with the outcomes of the elections to refrain from violence but follow due process in seeking redress. ”Our final report, which will be issued later, will expand on some other issues observed.”