The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer for the Ogun West Senatorial district, Prof. Taofeek Shittu, has declared the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate, Tolu Odebiyi, winner of the Saturday Senatorial election in the district. Shittu, who announced Odebiyi winner on Tuesday at the collation centre in Oronna hall, Ilaro, added the APC candidate polled the highest votes of 58,452. Odebiyi’s closest rival was Engr. Olusegun Gbeleyi of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), who scored 48,611 votes while Hon. Leye Odunjo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) came third with 43,454 votes. INEC had on Sunday declared Governor Ibikunle Amosun who contested on the platform of the APC winner of the Ogun Central Senatorial polls while the senatorial election in Ogun East has been declared inconclusive. Odebiyi, who is the former Chief of Staff to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, has dedicated his victory to “all those who have endured indignities but remained principled on behalf of the people of Ogun – West.” Odebiyi expressed gratitude to the people of the area for the opportunity extended to him to serve. He said: “It is with a humble heart and gratitude to God Almighty that I accept the result of my election to represent the good people of Ogun West Senatorial District in the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “First, I wish to express my undying gratitude to the people of Ogun West for their practical demonstration of love as we campaigned for this election and for their indubitable and preferential choice for me being validated here today. I am very grateful. “May I also thank all the officials who conducted this election on behalf of the INEC and commend you all for your dedication and patriotism in the face of unprecedented inducements and temptations challenging a free and fair outcome. “This victory is dedicated to all those who have endured indignities but remained principled on behalf of the people of Ogun West. “Please be assured that I will continue to stand with you shoulder to shoulder in raising higher the flag of progress and prosperity for the people of Ogun West.“