Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has called on Christians to troop out and vote during the forthcoming elections because their votes will make the difference. Speaking during a special combined Sunday Worship Service at the Deeper Life Camp Ground, Rumudara, Port Harcourt, Wike said Christians can no longer stand aloof while the country slides into destruction. He said that Christians should not believe the false propaganda that they cannot influence the outcome of political contests in the country. “You must vote during the forthcoming elections.  If you don’t vote and a bad leader emerges, you are part of those that brought that bad leadership. “Your vote can make the difference.  So go ahead and vote to effect a positive change”, he said. He charged the church not to allow the children of God to be surrounded by those not supposed to be in charge of leadership. The governor said that all Christians have witnessed first-hand the failures of the last four years of the Federal Government which have destroyed the economy, engendered unemployment, insecurity and dictatorial  tendencies. He said this was the opportunity to chart a new direction. Wike said that all efforts of Christians to ensure the country makes progress would be crowned when they vote for their preferred choice. He appealed to Christians to continue to pray against those plotting electoral violence and bloodshed in Rivers State. He said: “Please pray for this state. Pray against those plotting electoral violence in this state. Pray for the state to have peaceful and credible polls.  Those plotting shall be disappointed. “None of my supporters should engage in political violence on my behalf.  Nobody should use violence to support me”. The governor stated that security agencies plotting bloodshed in Rivers State will be consumed by their plot and Rivers State will emerge victorious. He said Christians should pray that God enables Judges to act right despite the intimidation and false propaganda by the APC Federal Government. The Deeper Life Camp Ground Youth Choir Ministered to the congregation in a Special number where they declared that they are no longer slaves to  sin and fear, but children of God. State Head of Deeper Life Church, Pastor Chike Onwuasunya said truly Governor Wike is Mr. Project as his projects are visible. He declared that all those making prophecies and preaching violence against Rivers State will witness the peaceful elections.  He said all evil plans will fail. He urged Deeper Life members to vote to determine the positive  direction  of the country