National Association of Nigerian Students, (NANS, Zone B), has held a peaceful protest and solidarity walk in Asaba, Delta State. The protesters demanded the immediate end of the lingering strike so as to enable students participate in the general election. Recall that on November 4, Academic Staff Union of Universities embarked on an industrial strike following the non-implementation of certain agreements signed with the union bordering on sundry allowances and refusal to fund public universities. However, ASUU President, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, had earlier sent a congratulatory message informing members that the government had met one of their demands as the union has received the certificate of operation for Nigerian University Pension Management Company, (NUPEMCO), from the National Pension Commission The peaceful protest, held across South South and South East regions, was headed by President of NANS Zone B, Comrade Okereke Godson Bishop.  Also in attendance were Students Union (SU) leaders from the region in addition to the leadership of the National Association of Polytechnic Students, whose teachers the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP), have also been on strike since December. The students reportedly walked from the overhead bridge towards Asaba to the last junction before the state government house. The turnout was massive as mammoth crowd of students chanted solidarity songs and demanded immediate resumption of academic activities that have been paralysed public universities and polytechnics nationwide. Addressing reporters, Okereke asked the Federal Government to assent to the demands of ASUU since it would revitalise the educational system. He further appealed to the government end the strike before the election so that students that had registered for PVC on campus can exercise their franchise. President of Students Union Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) Samuel Frank Chigozie, recalled some hiccups experienced by his members by security personnel who attemted to frustrate them from joining the protest. Despite the challenges, they were still able to join the protest. “The Students faced serious opposition from security operatives in Anambra State especially by those who directed that they should shoot any force protesting at sight. This made it difficult for us to go protest at the extent at which we were supposed to; but at the end we achieved our aim and our opinions were held by all.” He recalled that he once held the Vice President of Nigerian Mining and Geoscience Societies post.  He also held the position of Financial Secretary Kebbi State Students Association (Kessa) for two sessions and he was also the class representative of his department from the 100-Level through to final year. According to him, those engagements affected his grade as a 100-Level student, noting that he weathered the storm in subsequent years.