It is no longer news that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the early hours of Saturday unexpectedly announced a shift in the 2019 Presidential election which was slated for the day, and March 2, 2019. But the postponement no doubt left many Nigerians surprised as they had already prepared themselves to vote for candidates of their choice in the first sets of the election. Their plans for the following day before they slept last Friday night changed when they woke up on Saturday morning. They were faced with the realities on the ground: no election. Announcing the postponement, the INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu had attributed his action to challenges including logistics, poor weather, fire incidents and overwhelmed Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in the last-minute rush. He said: “Following a careful review of the implementation of its logistics and operational plan and the determination to conduct free, fair and credible elections, the Commission came to the conclusion that proceeding with the elections as scheduled is no longer feasible. “Consequently, the Commission has decided to reschedule the Presidential and National Assembly Elections to Saturday, 23rd February 2019. Furthermore, the governorship, state House of Assembly and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) area council elections is rescheduled to Saturday, March 9, 2019. “This will afford the Commission the opportunity to address identified challenges in order to maintain the quality of our elections. This was a difficult decision for the Commission to take, but necessary for the successful delivery of the elections and the consolidation of our democracy,” he said. It should also not be lost on Nigerians that the former INEC Chairman, Attahiru Jega, who conducted the 2015 general elections, described as the freest in Nigeria, at some point had to shift the election due to some challenges, just like he did during the 2011 general elections. But reactions to the latest postponement appeared to be dividing the political parties more. In their first reactions after the announcement, none of the major political parties publicly identified with or supported INEC in its latest decision. The electoral umpire appeared to be standing alone. Also before last Saturday, there have been accusations and counter-accusations, especially between the two major parties claiming that the other party has bought over the INEC. This trend continued during the reactions to the postponement of the elections on Saturday. The main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) immediately rejected the postponement. PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, maintained that the postponement was a deliberate pre-determined agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari to cling on to power and a grand design by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to thwart the will of Nigerians at all cost. “The party will not accept anything short of a well-organised electoral process devoid of manipulation, harassment and intimidation of voters and the opposition particularly members of the PDP. “Having failed in all their nefarious options to enable them cling on to power, the APC and the INEC came up with the idea of shifting election an action that is dangerous to our democracy and unacceptable.” In the same vain, the PDP Presidential candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, said “This postponement is obviously a case of the hand of Esau but the voice of Jacob. By instigating this postponement, the Buhari administration hopes to disenfranchise the Nigerian electorate in order to ensure that turn out is low on the rescheduled date. “Nigerians must frustrate their plans by coming out in even greater numbers on Saturday, 23 February and Saturday, March 9, respectively. “Knowing that the Nigerian people are determined to reject them, they are desperate and will do anything in their power to avoid their rejection by the Nigerian people. “Their plan is to provoke the public, hoping for a negative reaction, and then use that as an excuse for further anti-democratic acts. “As such, I call on all Nigerians to be patient. We have tolerated the maladministration of this government for four years. We can extend our tolerance a few more days and give them our verdict via our votes,” he stated. The ruling party, APC, apart from adding its voice to the condemnation of the postponement, also expressed surprise at the development. A statement by APC Presidential Campaign Council (Official Spokesperson) and Director of Strategic Communications, Festus Keyamo said “We have just received with great disappointment and disillusionment the announcement by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of its decision to postpone the Presidential/National Assembly and Gubernatorial/House of Assembly Elections to Saturday, February 23, 2019 and Saturday, March 9, 2019, respectively. “We condemn and deprecate this tardiness of the electoral umpire in the strongest terms possible. President Muhammadu Buhari had since cooperated fully with INEC by ensuring everything it demanded to conduct free and fair elections were promptly made available to it. “This news is therefore a huge disappointment to us and to our teeming supporters nationwide and around the world, many of whom have come into the country to exercise their franchise. “We do hope that INEC will remain neutral and impartial in this process as the rumor mill is agog with the suggestion that this postponement has been orchestrated in collusion with the main opposition, the PDP that was NEVER ready for this election. “We note that all the major credible demographic projections have predicted a defeat of the PDP and it seriously needed this breather to orchestrate more devious strategies to try and halt President Buhari’s momentum. It did the same as the ruling Party in 2015, when it realized the game was up, by orchestrating the postponement of the 2015 elections by six weeks. Now, it may be up to its old trick again. “We have earlier raised the alarm that the PDP is bent on discrediting this process the moment it realized it cannot make up the numbers to win this election. We are only urging INEC not collude with the PDP on this. “We are truly worried because as early as Friday morning, some known PDP Social Media influencers unwittingly announced this postponement, but quickly deleted the message and apologized to the public that it was fake news. We do not want to be forced to a situation of announcing our  total loss of confidence in INEC, because we know where that would leave our democracy,” he stated. Buhari, who had to cut short his trip to his home state, Katsina State on Saturday, said “I am deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and our preparations both locally and internationally, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) postponed the Presidential and National Assembly elections within hours of its commencement. “Many Nigerians have traveled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers are gathered. “INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections.  We and all our citizens believed them. “This administration has ensured that we do not interfere in any way with the work of INEC except to ensure that all funds were released to the commission. “We now urge INEC to ensure not only that materials already distributed are safe and do not get into wrong hands, but that everything is done to avoid the lapses that resulted in this unfortunate postponement, and ensure a free and fair election on the rescheduled dates. “While I reaffirm my strong commitment to the independence, neutrality of the electoral umpire and the sanctity of the electoral process and ballot, I urge all political stakeholders and Nigerians to continue to rally round INEC at this trying national moment in our democratic journey. “I, therefore, appeal to all Nigerians to refrain from all civil disorder and remain peaceful, patriotic and united to ensure that no force or conspiracy derail our democratic development,” he said. It’s very important for the stakeholders, even after the postponement announcement, to continue to respect the first and second National Peace Accord signed by the candidates of the various political parties. Noting that millions of people across the world were praying for Nigeria and its people, the Secretary General of the Commonwealth, Patricia Scotland had said during the second peace accord signing ceremony last Wednesday: ”It is a burden that Nigerian leaders gathered here today carry. We call on their party, supporters and public to follow their lead. Elections will come and go, but this great Nigeria will remain.” Peace should be maintained at all costs, and just like President Buhari noted during the peace accord signing, Nigeria is the real party, and must be protected.