Dede John Preye and Adejoke Durogbade emerged champions in the elite category of the Cadbury Bournvita Duathlon championship which took place yesterday at the National Stadium, Lagos. Preye finished in a time of 57:35.97sec to beat Adeniran Opeyemi (59:16.97sec) and Garba Musad (I:25:65.60sec) to the second and third positions respectively. Also, Durogbade with a time of I:05:05:57sec beat Sylvia Odom (I:07:53sec) and Mary Oyebola (I:12:58.09sec) to the second and third positions respectively. In the Junior Boys category, Gana Isaac emerged the champion, while Abideen Odebiyi and Orekan Jabar finished second and third respectively. In the Junior girls category, Yemisi Alabi, Sofoluwe Olabisi and Patricia fished first second and third respectively. In the Junior Boys category, Akinola Tobi emerged the winner, Qasim Quadri finished second while Anikunola Olowonanu ended third. In the Cadet girls category, Racheal Morakinyo finished first, Bliss Afekhuai ended second, while Praise Uzor finished third. Speaking after the event, Cadbury’s Director, Corporate and Government Affairs, Bala Yesufu commended the athletes for putting up a good show and the Nigeria Triathlon Union (NTU) for organizing a befitting championship. He stated that Cadbury sponsored the event because of its belief that triathlon would help develop some young talents in the country. “I must commend that athletes for putting up good performances and I encourage them to do better in subsequent championship. Yesufu stated that the partnership between Cadbury and NTU would be an enduring that is capable of discovering and developing world beaters. President of NTU, Prince Wale Oladunjoye also commended that athletes for doing well at the championship and called on other corporate organisations to emulate Cadbury’s kind gesture. “I thank the athletes, sponsor, officials and the Executive Committee of the NTU for their contributions towards the success of the championship. I will use this opportunity to call on other sponsors to join hands with us in taking triathlon to every part of the country,” Oladunjoye added.