Last week, we started to look at the causes of PPH, which is a major cause why our mothers die of childbirth disorders. In this week’s article, we will continue to examine the causes of PPH and thereafter, deal with how you as a healthcare consumer can help save the lives of our mothers from premature death. Rupture of the womb, tears of the neck of the womb and vagina may lead to the woman to bleed heavily. If not controlled urgently, the woman may lose her life. In addition, when the womb (uterus) inverts on itself or turn inwards, such that there is no opportunity for the womb to self-control the bleeding, PPH may become a major problem. There are often diseases that are associated with pregnancy and after childbirth, which may limit the ability of the body to take care of itself naturally. Example of this is high blood pressure and pre-eclampsia. When the disease has become so bad, the ability of the doctors to control the bleeding may be lost. Another tragedy that may befall a woman during labour or after childbirth is rupture of the womb itself. In a labour that is intense and prolonged beyond a reasonable period, the womb may burst open internally and the woman bleeds profusely. As I mentioned in earlier article, when bleeding occurs more than 24 hours after a childbirth, such episode is secondary PPH. In most cases, the secondary PPH is due to infection. Such infection which may have been sexually transmitted – and it may not be sexually transmitted) – can produce foul smelling vaginal discharge along with bleeding that the woman suffers from. Treatment of PPH. While solutions to most of the issues that cause PPH and hence maternal death are beyond the capability of the ordinary person on the street, there are several actions that you the clients and healthcare consumers may take to prevent PPH or take actions to prevent any situation that may make the PPH worse. The starting first point is that, all women who are pregnant should ensure that she gets to register for antenatal care at a local hospital, clinic or maternity home near to the pregnant woman resides. There should be no excuses for not registering. The centre providing the antenatal could be government or private centres across the length and breadth of Nigeria. Husbands and fathers, mothers, grandmothers and the entire family should persuade pregnant women to register for antenatal care (ANC). ANC saves lives. It’s not enough to register for ANC; it’s crucial to actually attend the ANC sessions. During the attendance, illness and health defects are discovered and correction are offered to the woman accordingly. The second point is that the pregnant woman should eat balanced meals always to avoid anaemia. Anaemia can make PPH worse. Further, while the writer does not advocate termination of pregnancy illegally, the reality is that thousands of pregnancies are so terminated in Nigeria with serious consequences for the mother. Of these infections, damage to the womb and bleeding are major risks. Thus, I will advise that women carrying unwanted pregnancies should approach registered doctors for assistance and counselling to prevent avoidable maternal deaths. In all cases, continuing bleeding poses a serious risk to women. Therefore, any heavy bleeding of whatever source during pregnancy (or bleeding in general) should come to the attention of a competent medical doctor urgently. No waiting. No delay. Delay is dangerous. If a pregnancy had recently been terminated and there is a vaginal discharge or even fever: such symptoms constitute indications for emergency medical attention before it gets too late. Professionally, the attending physicians will find the cause of the bleeding and act accordingly or as the case may be, refer the suffering client to a centre where appropriate treatment will be administered to the woman. It’s also important that women who have had childbirth should endeavour to adhere to the treatment that the physicians have instructed. With these, the specter of high maternal mortality due to bleeding can be brought under control.