Following the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) as its flag bearer, the party’s state and local government executives in Sokoto state on Thursday defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) with no fewer than 25, 000 other members. Addressing a press conference in Sokoto, the former acting State Chairman of the SDP, Alhaji Malami Alhaji Kyahe and the former Chairman of the Forum of Local Governments Chairmen of the party, Alhaji Ibrahim Mohammed, said that, they defected to the APC without any strings attached . They said, “We ditched our former party because of its lack of justice, equity, direction and commitment to Nigeria’s even socioeconomic development. “We are extremely satisfied with the indelible and invaluable achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari, while we are truly determined to ensure his re-election for a second term. “This is to ensure the consolidation of these tangible achievements like bolstering security, doggedly fighting corruption, improving the economy, while Boko Haram has been totally decimated, among others.” The duo further described President Buhari as incorruptible, pious and strongly patriotic, as well as religiously committed to the Nigerian project. They also recalled the two tenures of Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko as Governor of Sokoto state between 2007 and 2015, saying, “He had delivered the dividends of democracy across the twenty three local governments of the state. “Even now as a Senator, he is living above board and he considers the entire state as his single constituency. “We are also totally optimistic that, the APC Gubernatorial Candidate, Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto and his running mate, Alhaji Faruk Malami Yabo, are qualified enough to be elected , while we are of the strong belief that , they will emulate Senator Wamakko, if elected .” Also speaking, the former Chairman of the SDP in Yabo Local Government, Alhaji Zayyanu Umar, described APC as the party to beat in Nigeria and promised all the defectors will work assiduously and selflessly to ensure the success of the candidates of the party, at all levels. In her remarks, the former Woman Leader of the SDP, Hajiya Rabi’atu Alhaji Yaro said that, women in the state are totally behind APC and all its candidates, at all levels. She averred that women in the state have since armed themselves with their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), saying, “we will use them to massively vote in the candidates of APC, at all levels, during the forthcoming general elections.”