From a romance with some emotional flashpoints of 2018, we are back to the Terra firma of 2019. But before we settle in comfortably, we may profit from casting a last glance at some of what may be called takeaways from that past year which are no give aways of faces behind the screens or masks. Depression raged into 2019. So did vaginal and uterine questions. Men were not firebrands but talkatives before the flaming Juliets. Many people complained about nerve problems. Arthritis kept striking. Cancer stung. Candida was unyielding. Vision faded. The prostate gland, the waterloo of many men, proved too heady to be forgotten. We cannot forget the liver. It is too connected with life to be kept in the back seat of healthcare. So are the kidneys and the intestines. Troublesome as 2018 was, you and I have everything to be thankful that we made it to 2019. Depression More people sank full weight into the abyss than managed to escape from the quagmire. Was it caused by something else or the economy? Some people mention a cosmic factor so well spoken about in the last few years. Anyone who does not fill his or her earthly existence with only bread and butter ways and means would have long heard that strange things were happening all around us. I was a high schoolboy when I read about Carl Sagan, the astrophysicist. When he and his comrades did not scare or excite us about the possibility of beings like us in outer space visiting us and even stealing some of us to study them back home, like animals in a zoological garden, they let us know that a new cosmic hour has struck. What do I mean by this? The answer should be clear if we recall the picture of our table or wall clock, or the wristwatch. Knowledgeable people of old followed the pattern of a cosmic clock to design it. This you can see in the astrological zodiac signs or signs of the stars.They plotted the pathways of the stars to arrive at those 12 signs …Taurus, Pisces, Leo,Virgo, e.t.c. We see a semblance of this in the 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of night in many parts of the earth.We see it reflected, also, in the 12 months of the year (even the Yoruba calendar agrees with the Gregorian calendar). We see it impacted on the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 disciples of Jesus.While it takes movement of the earth around the sun to record one earth year, it takes the movement of the earth in another form to cross from one hour mark in another form about 2,600 earth years to cross from one cosmic year or one cosmic age. In a new cosmic age, strange things are expected to happen on earth. It is as though the earth comes under more powerful etheric influences than before. And it doesn’t happen without a warning or signal.Carl Sagan proved to us that fish was falling with rain.This, it is said, is to tell us that we were in the AQUARIUM AGE, the Age of water. We cannot talk about this now. Fish falling with rain startled many people,including the scientists. Where did the fish come from? Some said fish eggs were evaporated and matured and hatched in the clouds. Others laughed at this conception. Evaporation of fish egg or inducting it upwards into the atmosphere would have to act against the present,but not necessarily correct, understanding of the Law of Gravity, which speaks of a force in the middle of the earth pulling everything down to the earth and holding it fast there. With the conception of evaporation defeated, that of biogenesis popped up. The prevailing conception of how everything which existed came about was “like begetting like”, man begetting man, fish begetting fish, also called biogenesis. Abiogenesis says something can come out of nothingness. At best, it concedes that “ethers” or etheric substances gave rise to different entities under different situations. As a young man, I showed interest in ALCHEMY when I read that alchemists turn sand into gold grains, using this knowledge. Now,we can put the cosmic sign of fish falling with rain to radiated images from the world beyond which became densified for us earth people to perceive in this gross material sphere of the cosmos. As the age of the air released the secret of the air, bringing such dumbfounding experiences then of, say, telephony, television, GSM, Wasap, Facebook, communication with the moon etc and the rest of them, so is the Age of water expected to startle earthly inhabitants. It would impact more pressure on the kernel of man, the spirit. It will remind us that our being on earth is not by accident ,that the earth is a school,that every age is like a higher level in the spiritual educational system. We can guess what it may feel like to move from high school to the university a student fit only for junior high school. The spiritual school is all about power. If the human spirit was unable to bear the radiations or currents under which existence must occur at a lower age,has to carry over lower class deficits to a higher class, then the higher magnitude of Vibrations in this higher age would simply scorch it like chicken beaten by rain or ice cubes in the scorching tropical sun, or like a candle stick ongthe hot oven burner. This picture can be repainted as a preterm foetus brought forth from an agitated womb without the prospect of shelter in an incubation.Christians speak of Three Ages… age ofvthe Father, age of the Son and age of the Holy Spirit. If we plot trajectory, we find slightly more than 2000 years between each age. Abraham represented the age of the Father, Jesus age of the son. Jesus warned that sins against the holy spirit will not be forgiven, and that the holy spirit would come after he had returned to the father to reprove the world of sin and to proclaim the judgement. In 1996 or thereabout, I read an interesting book by Tom Kayan American journalist, titled: DOOMS DAY  1999, in which he recalled end-time prophecies made over many generations, a recurring decimal of which was a sun bigger than our own and outshining it thousand folds.The power of this star,which some spiritual circles say is a huge comet is what is believed would facilitate the judgement in many ways including destruction of FALSEHOOD in all economies, human relationships, human ideas, religion etc. Some people believe this Star is already on its way and that the aggravation of all events in number and quantum over the shortest time spans ever is due to its power which has already encompassed the earth. Thus,anyone who is not inwardly good and strong enough to bear this power and be uplifted by it would be scorched and inwardly cold, lapse into depression. More about this later. Our Cosmos or universe has arrived at a cosmic turning point.This means it has completed the revolution around the power  in its centre which holds it together just as the planets of our solar systems individually complete their revolutions around the sun,the central power which holds them together.The cosmos or universe is made of trillions  upon trillions of solar systems which are divided into trillions of trillions of galaxies. Our solar system belongs to the milky way galaxy.Together with the uncountable number of galaxies, we have just completed a revolution around the central authority which holds us all together. If we are not held together, we will fly away in different directions, collide with one another and be all destroyed, making nonsense of our effort to exist conciously and in peace and happiness.This will usher our universe, galaxy and  planet earth into a new season and a higher energy potential we earth dwellers individually or collectively may not be inwardly mature for or prepared for. Here, the energy voltage is much,much higher than we were used to. That is a major reason given for the increasing rate of depression all over the earth today.The spirit, the inner kernel of earthman, gave rise to its earthly body which serves it as a cloak or casing. If the immature spirit cannot bear the spiritual pressure acting upon it in a higher age in which it has found itself existing,it would cave in and its cloak would suffer along with it.The starting point of this suffering are the brain cells.With little or no energy from the scorched and weak spirit to animate them,they become unbalanced and sick as well. We can see evidence of these events mushrooming all around us. This scorching hits individuals or nations at the time most ripe and right for it. Recently in Nigeria, a young boy killed his mother in the east, slept with the corpse and then dismembered her organs for sale to ritualists! In Lagos, two brothers who needed money for the naming ceremony of the child of one of them beheaded the seven-year-old son of one of their neighbours, hoping to sell the head to ritualists! We have heard of a new trend in which men in their 50s and 60s sleep with girls aged five or six years! Even more shocking is the story of a man who raped a 68-year-old woman. Depression lies behind armed conflicts. Last year alone, thousands of people were needlessly killed in Nigeria because the brains of some people were not working properly. And, now, we are learning from Nigerian psychiatrists that more than half of the population may have defective brains. But we assume people with defective brains are only those who live and sleep on refuse dumps or walk about with no clothes on. A man who steals trillions of naira but is lucky to not be found out,who would not retire from thieving to enjoy his loot but would prefer to go on stealing peanut money until he is caught is not a normal person. He is like that jilted bank worker who, on the day his girlfriend was getting married to another man, sprayed his car with petrol, got into it and struck a matchstick to set himself ablaze. Everywhere you turn, you find people with defective brains. They are enveloped in negative energy and radiate it. They are inwardly sick and sullen,bitter and angry and resort to external aids such as drink, sex, violence, slander, murder etc to hold themselves together. They do not know whom they are or for what lofty goals they are permitted existence. Thus, they live but are not alive. Being inwardly empty, all they know about is money and material acquisitions. It does not matter what social level they have attained. They are still sick souls. Let us look at a few more recent occurrences in Nigeria. ONE: In the east, a child of five years was playing outdoor. Some women kidnapped her and sold her for N350,000 in another town. The buyers resold her within 24 hours for N750,000 to another group in another town where the police found and rescued this girl. The captors and buyers did not remember that they were parents. We will pitch a tent here on some of the “take always” of 2018, which give away nothing about the individuals they concern. As I look back at the old year, it is depression I see on the protocol almost everywhere. Psychiatric facilities are spilling patients over and doctors are overworked. A testimonial of this is the rehabilitation centre for drug depressed people which Senator Oluremi Tinubu built in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos State, and was inaugurated by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. If we look around and about us carefully,we may find that it is not only people who soliloquise or bite the bark of trees for food who have something upstairs working the reverse way or mode. I still remember vividly the reported story of that man in Lagos who went drinking on the eve of his daughter’s wedding. When he returned home and discovered electricity had failed yet again, he lost a little grip on himself. He woke up his daughter to ask for his torch. When she could not tell him where it was, he drew a matchette and cut her to pieces. His wife fled. His eyes cleared a short while later in the police station. He had been possessed by an earthbound soul who derives pleasure and joy in what he had just done. Last year, this column tried to make a distinction between possession and insanity. Possession is often facilitated by poor or low blood radiations, it was said, and may be easily corrected not necessarily  by putting the patient to sleep with injections, but by recomposing the blood. By injecting their patients to sleep as a way of calming the nerves, doctors merely make the bodies of these patients momentarily unusable by those earthbound souls on the prowl who take over the bodies owned and inhabited by weak souls for their own use and pleasure. When these patients are no longer on these injections, and their bodies are usable again by the invading earth bound souls,a relapse often occurs if that soul is able again to take partial or full possesion, giving the scenario of two souls trying to control one body through one brain, a situation often mistaken for insanity. The blood is the means by which the soul communicates with the body and vice versa. So, anyone who either through spiritual weakness or poor nutrition,makes his or her blood radiation weak and unusable by other entities is to blame for these happenings. So,when you walk on a pedestrian bridge across a super expressway and a thought comes to you, suggesting that you jump below, as some people told me last year they sometimes feel, realise your blood may be weak and someone you cannot see,who has departed this earth but fails to move from here and is, therefore, earthbound, is trying to mess you up.When you are alone in your bedroom or in the bath and you feel like masturbating,someone is whispering to you to do something to yourself which degrades you. It is possible more than 20 of them are watching you and laughing as you make yourself a toy or playground  in their hands..You may be DEPRESSED.