Violence is common during elections. To avoid being caught in its web, many schools have beefed up security on their premises. Parents are also keeping their eyes on their wards. In this report, ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, JANE CHIJIOKE, ZAINAB LAWAL and BUSOLA SEBIOTIMO look at the various security measures schools have adopted to ensure that their pupils are safe during the elections. How secure are schools during general elections? How do schools protect their  pupils from election violence? Security in schools is given priority attention during elections. Similarly, this year, school owners have adopted measures to ensure that their pupils are safe. Before last weekend’s general elections, there was fear in the land, especially with the postponement of the presidential and national elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), from February 16 to February 23, a development that led to some examination bodies to readjust their timetable. Also, schools adjusted their curricular, even though they were not affected. According to the new timetable released by INEC, the Governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections earlier slated for Saturday, March 2, have been rescheduled to March 9. Following this development, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) also postponed its Mock Unified Tertiary matriculation Examination (UTME) to a yet-to-be-decided date. Last week, the board’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Fabian Benjamin, hinted of the possibility of a new date for the UTME should the election drag to between March 16 and 23, the dates of the UTME. In view of the postponement, the Lagos State Government directed all schools in the state to resume academic activities last Monday instead of Tuesday. The information was contained in a statement by the Director-General, Education Quality Assurance, Mrs Ronke Soyombo. It read in part: “The state government has been compelled by the change in election dates to further review the 2018/19 school academic calendar as stated below: “All schools resume Monday, 18th February, 2019. All schools in Lagos State are expected to close on the following dates: Friday, 22nd of February and to resume on Monday, 25th February. “The schools will also close on Friday, 8th March 2019 and to resume on Monday, 11th March. All public and private schools, school leaders and school associations should take note and adhere strictly.” Remarkably, concerns were already being raised on the need to beef up security in schools to safeguard pupils as well as school properties. For instance, the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), an umbrella body of private schools operators, had ordered its members to vacate by Thursday (elections are held on Saturdays) and resume on Monday for the Presidential and National Assembly elections. They are also to repeat same ahead of gubernatorial and state houses of assembly elections. A statement by NAPPS National President, Dr Sally Adukwu-Bolujoko, noted that while the association is mindful of the forthcoming West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and JAMB, it would not hesitate to take caution amid likely uprisings that usually characterise elections. The statement read in part: “All proprietors are to monitor the security situation in their neighbourhoods and alert security agencies, while informing parents to evacuate children as soon as possible. “While we continue to pray and work with relevant authorities to ensure peaceful elections, we urge all participants to see politics as a game not worth killing or dying for.” Following pockets of skirmishes in some states during the Presidential and National Assembly elections at the weekend, the Association of Nursery and Primary Education Instructor s of Nigeria (ANPEIN), in a statement, warned its members to be careful before they resume this week in view of the skirmishes that rocked some states during last weekend’s election. “It was found that some states were crisis-ridden, with some pockets of demonstrations and skirmishes (during the election),” said in a statement signed by its National President Fowowe Simeon Sunday on Sunday. The statement continued: “In view of this, our members are advised to study their environment with a view to ascertaining if their schools can resume tomorrow (Monday). “Schools can resume tomorrow (Monday), if their environment is conducive for such and is crisis-free, while resumption may be shifted till Tuesday if the environment is seemingly peaceful.” Some states are spoiling for a showdown, following allegations of sharp practices during the election, raising fears such development could affect schools, if not timely checked. The Nation went around some schools in Lagos State to know what security structures they have put in place for the elections. Mr Adedeji A. O., vice principal of  Comprehensive Senior High School, Alapere, said: “There is no much change in the curriculum. Basically, we were  holiday supposed to have mid-term upper week, which we have had. When the election was postponed, the school resumed again last Monday, so nothing has changed really in terms of our curriculum or teaching activities. Everything has been covered.” On security, he noted that pupils were informed about the vacation “This is a day school, not a boarding school; so we don’t have many problems. All we need to do today (Thursday) is that all teaching staff and principal will wait and ensure that all the pupils leave the school. We’ll inform them on the assembly ground that there won’t be school on Friday. When the school closes, we will ensure the security personnel march the pupils out of the school compound. From there, they would leave for their homes and the responsibility is now on the parents. “We have security guards manning the school. During the election, they are not going for public holiday like others, because it’s their job. They’re in charge of the school security and protection during weekends and public holidays.” Mrs Shade Williams, Head Teacher, Little Eagles Montessori, Mafoluku, said the school would not resume until after the gubernatorial elections. She said: “We vacated on Thursday, February 21 and will resume on Monday, March 11,  after the state election. We just want to ensure maximum security of pupils during this election period.They are little kids and we want them to be with their parents till the election is over”. Mrs Grace Majekodunmi, Head Teacher of Excel Land Private School, Ajao Estate, said: “We vacated on (last) Thursday because of the election. The school is always secured even during school hours, let alone when it is not being used.” Mrs O. l. Ajibade, supervisor at Charis Fountain Academy, Shomolu, said the school complied with the government’s directive to vacate early enough, adding that the election did not affect the school’s curriculum. She said: “The election didn’t affect our curriculum so much, although there were some things we had to postpone. We also work more on our curriculum, so it won’t affect the kids. We had a meeting with our teachers to shift some topics till next term for the pupils not to be affected. “We’re observant with our environment, too, to see if there’s any outbreak of violence. We ensure that the pupils are protected with the help of our teachers and the security around.” She further explained that the school had deployed the assistance of the pan Yoruba cultural group, Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), as well as community leaders in security matters. “The community has OPC that protects the area; we’ve contacted them to inform us in case of any violence. Our gate is always locked. We’ve communicated with the community leaders to ensure the environment is well-protected because we always pay them at the end of the month for security and I think they are doing a very good job.” Mrs Nduku Busayo Mercy, proprietress of Winners Treasure School, Kosofe, said due to the elections, the school was able to plan  for the school’s work. “We actually make sure we follow the government’s order as we were asked to close on Wednesday, last week,” Mrs Nduku said. “I learnt some people were still asking their pupils to stay in school; that’s dangerous. Now, there would be another holiday tomorrow (Friday) and we were supposed to allow the pupils go; so we’ve given them a letter already to that effect. We also make sure the gate is locked during this period. We make sure we cross the pupils to the appropriate places when school closes. Someone must stay around to ensure everybody has moved out before the place is locked. We only work on the community’s security instruction. We don’t have any additional security for that. God is our security,” she added. Miss Florence Ojesanmi, a staff member of Chislon Breed School,    lamented the effect of the election’s postponement on their curriculum. “The election slightly altered our curriculum as we had to shift some topics, but we have also tried to work according to schedule as these pupils have paid to be taught appropriately,” she said. She continued: “On security, we  follow the government’s orders. Also, we have a security man in the school and we encourage parents to pick their wards as soon as the school is over. When the school is on holiday, we leave the security of the school in the Lord’s hands.” To complement security in the neighbiourhood, Kristobell Academy Secondary School, Iba, has to set up a special security office, all because of the election. “Talking about security measures, we have an office ensures that nothing goes wrong,” said the school Principal, Mr Bright Odion. “We have security measures in place; we are also adjusting to the curriculum by making sure pupils are given some extra work via extension of the time. Though the government had adjusted the curriculum, the pupils need to be given some time. The time is what we are looking at. Though it will affect the pupils on the long run, we will do our best to ensure that whatever time is lost will be recovered. The students are reacting in their own little way; it is an extra cost on our side. As it is, it is telling on them. They are not finding it easy, but they need to find their way around it to ensure that they cope,’’ he said. Headmistress of Holy City Nursery and Primary School, Agboroko, Iba, Lagos, Pastor Precious Ramani  decried the effect of the holiday. ‘’It is really difficult to cope with the change in curriculum, but we just have to comply with what is going on. We have given the children enough home work. They, too, have to cope with what is going on. They are reacting well and we are praying to God to give us a good government that will lead us well. In terms of security, there is peace in this area compared to other states,’’ he said A teacher  at Army Cantonment Girls Junior Secondary School, Ojo Barracks, who identified himself as Mr Adeniyi, said the school has already devised means of meeting up with the curriculum ‘’We are adjusting to the change in curriculum. For instance, whenever the children are having a free period, we teach them. Also, a topic that is meant to last for two weeks, we compressed it into a week and give the pupils enough class work and assignments to take home. In terms of security, we are doing our best to protect the children.’’ Mrs Victoria Williams, headmistress of Victory Schools, Agboroko, Iba, Lagos, said: ‘’The change in curriculum is short. We will have to follow up with what we were given and make sure we manage. We are managing the environment. God is securing us. We have no problem with security because we are being guided by God and the management. There is no reaction from the kids concerning the change in curriculum.They will be able to cope’’ Mrs Blessing Onyeka, headmistress, Emro Children Schools, Igboelerin, Iba, believes any school worth its salt can still work around the change in curriculum. ‘’The change in curriculum is not really bad because we have 14 weeks in the term,” Mrs Onyeka said, adding: “Had it been we had 12 weeks (for the term), it would have affected us badly. Although it affected the week for tests, it was shifted to the next week. We have people that are protecting the lives of the pupils and the school property. They come around 9am and leave when the school closes. ‘’It (curriculum) is beyond our control. We just have to adjust to the change in curriculum. We pray to God for guidance in protecting the lives of the children and the school property,’’ said Headmistress Fathia Crown Nursery and Primary School, Agboroko, Iba, Mrs Ugochuwu Ubakewelu. Despite these assurances by the school owners ad teachers, a parent, who identified herself as Mrs Iselobhor, said until the election  is concluded, her wards won’t set foot in school. “The atmosphere the election has created is unsafe for me to send my children to school. Even though they were told the day they should resume, I am not ready to let them leave my sight until after the election,” she said. Another parent from Agege, Mr  Habeeb Adekoya, lamented the extra cost he incurred to cater for his wards due to the postponement of the election. ‘’It (postponement) affected my finance, Adekoya lamented. “My ward is a boarder, and he’s supposed to have gone back to school, but is still home. Now the cost of staying at home and also taking her back to school has tripled.’’ Another parent, Ariyo Taiwo, a fashion designer, praised the Federal Government for priortising security of the children ahead of elections. ‘’Let’s commend the Federal Government for taking the initiative (postponement), which now gives the children a break and ensure they are under the watch of their parents, instead of staying in school where violence can occur.”