•While NCR is good, it still does not explain why banks do not want to lend to MSMEs ONE of the more disturbing revelations at the workshop hosted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the National Judicial Institute (NJI) for judicial officers on the operations of the Secured Transaction in Movable Assets (STMA) Act and the National Collateral Registry (NCR) is the financing gap in the 17.5 million-odd micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) segment of the economy currently put at $158 billion (N48 trillion). The CBN governor captures the reality this way: “MSMEs are typically deemed risk-laden, plagued with the high mortality rate, and often lacking adequate collaterals acceptable for conventional credit. Accordingly, the estimated US$158 billion or N48.3 trillion financing gap which characterises MSMEs in Nigeria reflects the risk-driven apathy of financial intermediaries to MSME lending (IFC, 2017)”. Yet, our understanding is that the imperative of a funding window cannot be more urgent. Emefiele captures the imperative thus: “In real terms, our GDP grew by 1.8 per cent in the third quarter of 2018 compared with 1.2 per cent in the corresponding period of 2017. The observed growth was largely driven by continued improvements in non-oil sector activities such as agriculture, information technology, manufacturing, transportation and storage, trade and other services. “About 96 per cent of enterprises operating within these sectors are MSMEs. These enterprises account for an estimated 48 per cent of Nigeria’s nominal GDP, seven per cent of export and about 84 per cent of workforce.” Despite these contributions, he noted that “MSMEs across the country continue to face structural drawbacks, particularly due to their peculiar nature. Poor access to finance, high cost of borrowing, inadequate infrastructure, non-conducive business environment and weak capacity are some of the stylised challenges constraining their growth.” For MSMEs the problem of access to finance, like an old tale, is well known. The real challenge is how to utilise the vast potential of movable assets – dormant wealth –as collateral to enhance access to credit by those who need them to boost their operations. This was precisely what the NCR sought to do. With NCR, the CBN maintains a database of MSMEs and their movable assets like vehicles, jewellery, sewing machines, motorcycles, etc., assets regarded as safe and secure for loans to finance start-up vocations or expand existing ones. Today, more than three years since the apex bank first rolled out the gazette for the operation of the registry and nearly two years after the instrument setting out its powers and authorities was passed into law, its acceptance is certainly growing, even if the awareness has remained relatively low. The picture as presented by Emefiele obviously speaks to this reality. Today, 628 financial institutions are currently registered on the NCR portal.  Of the lot are 21 deposit money banks, four merchant banks, one non-interest bank, four development finance institutions, 551 microfinance banks, 13 non-bank financial institutions, and 34 finance companies. However, compared with the $158 billion overall financing gap for the MSMEs sector, the value of registered movable assets on the NCR portal currently put at N1.23 trillion, US$1.14 billion and €6.08 million through 41,408 financing statements comes to a tiny droplet in the desert of needs. The workshop is therefore important not just as a means of sensitising important stakeholders but also in deepening the awareness about the innovative policy. However, while that is one way to go, the idea still does not answer in any fundamental sense the question why our banks are generally averse to partnering with MSMEs without the requirement for immovable assets. That would obviously require more than the existence of the NCR infrastructure can deliver. While we harbour no illusions that the operation of the NCR would constitute a magic wand to solve the problem of credit, it certainly will go a long way to narrow the current unacceptable gap.