A goalkeeper and a gentleman departs It is often said that sport is a metaphor for life. If this is true, it can be said that the late English goalkeeper Gordon Banks, OBE, lived a truly exemplary life on and off the football field in a career that reached the highest levels of the game. Born in 1937 to a working-class family in Sheffield, Banks stopped school at the age of 15 in order to earn a living. His jobs as a coal-hauler and bricklayer helped to build the leg and arm muscles that would stand him in such good stead in later life. He first began playing for amateur sides Sheffield Schoolboys and Millspaugh before being offered a trial at Chesterfield in 1953. The team reached the finals of the FA Youth Cup of 1956, losing 4-3 on aggregate to Manchester United. In 1959, he moved to Leicester, with whom he reached the 1961 and 1963 FA Cup finals, and won the League Cup in 1964. Banks’ rise to global renown came as goalkeeper for the Three Lions, the English senior men’s team, in the 1966 FIFA World Cup hosted by England. In a tournament notorious for the cynical brutality of the defenders, he was the lynchpin of an effective six-man defensive unit that neutralised the likes of Eusebio, the scintillating Portuguese forward who would go on to become the tournament’s top scorer. England 1966 brought Banks’ sterling goalkeeping qualities to the fore – his calmness under pressure, his effective organisation of the defence, his vision, and his agility. The three goals the team let in during the tournament were a record low for the number of goals conceded by a World Cup-winning team and was not surpassed until USA 1994. It is a testimony to Banks’ prowess that, even though England failed to retain the World Cup in Mexico four years later, he was not in goal when the team lost to the then West Germany, and his brilliantly audacious save against Brazil’s rampaging Pele is still regarded as the best-ever World Cup save in the history of the tournament. Banks was the 1972 Football Writers’ Association Footballer of the Year, and was a six-time FIFA Goalkeeper of the Year. Most pundits rank him in the top three of the twentieth century’s great shot-stoppers, alongside Russia’s legendary Lev Yashin and the sublime Dino Zoff of Italy. His achievement is even more remarkable when it is remembered that he played for relatively small clubs and thus won less silverware than the other two. His football career was tragically cut short in October 1972 when, as a Stoke player, he lost sight in his right eye as a result of a car accident. He left the club a few months later. In yet another remarkable testament to his ability, the now-monocular Banks went to the North American Soccer League in 1977 as one of the football superstars the league was hiring to boost its image. He joined the Fort Lauderdale Strikers and won the division with the best defensive record, with Banks being named the NASL Goalkeeper of the Year. Banks’ immense talent combined with an easy-going approachability to make him a fan favourite wherever he played. In an age when football players earned far less than they do now, his skill, ability and strength of character are indicative of an individual who was worth much more than his weight in gold. May his soul rest in peace.