Nigeria’s second largest carrier, Globacom and global information communication technology (ICT) firm, Huawei Technologies have partnered to reward Nigerian students across institutions in the country with a combination of high-end smartphones and super-fast internet service. The programme, targeted at 30 universities and 150 Nigerian students, will be offering free Huawei smartphones loaded with six months unlimited Glo 4G data to five students and five Huawei routers with pre-loaded 60GB of Glo 4G data to the institution. Students to be rewarded are the top five final year students in each institution. According to the two firms, the plan is to aid fast and free internet Wi-Fi connectivity for research in schools to enable students stay connected to good internet for academic tasks while outside of the school premises for free. The programme kicked off yesterday at the Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State, where the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Prof Iheayichukwu Okoro, led other members of the university to receive the routers. The five outstanding final year students of Babcock University who received the Huawei Y5 smartphones were Dogo Edafe Bawa of Business Education, Olusoji Ifejesu Precious of Accounting Department, Ojutiku Toluwanimi Oluwaseun of Economics, Ajulibe Goziem Benjamin of Medical Laboratory Science and Anifowose Airat Morolake of Computer Science department. Speaking during the ceremony, Prof Okoro thanked Globacom and Huawei Technologies for the gesture which he said would motivate students to be more hard working, engender healthy competition and spur them to exceptional performance. “We have always had faith in Globacom as we were part of the first set of postpaid lines and close user group (CUG) users. Our students will continue to cherish this recognition of excellence. Thank you Globacom; thank you Huawei,” he said. Also speaking, the university’s registrar, Dr. Jonathan Nwosu, commended the speed and reliability ofGlo’s 4G network set up by Huawei Technologies. He said: “Glo is Babcock, Babcock is Glo. This is reward for hard work. Hard work pays. We thank you for rewarding excellence in academics.” One of the beneficiaries, 19-year-old Ojutiku Toluwanimi expressed gratitude for the gesture, stating that her parents and other family members were very happy Glo subscribers. Another recipient, 36-year-old Mrs Dogo Edafe Bawa, commended Globacom and Huawei Technologies for the free smartphones and data; enjoining other service providers to emulate Globacom’s standard of excellence. Globacom’s Regional Manager, Retail Sales, Lagos/Ogun, Mr. Olufolahan Faseyitan, urged members of the university community to use the opportunity of the company’s on-going week-long data clinic to upgrade to Glo 4G to experience the new speed of life and enjoy memorable communication experience. He noted that the availability of Glo 4G in all tertiary institutions in the country validates the claim that Globacom has the widest and most reliable 4G LTE coverage in Nigeria. Representing Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, the Deputy Human Resources Director, Mrs. Dorothy Johnson, expressed Huawei’s pledge to assisting its clients’ business success by providing leading innovation technology and all-encompassing support as it does for Globacom and other clients. She also stated Huawei’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) in line with building the knowledge capacity of Nigerian youths and bridging the digital gap in unconnected societies, including rural areas. “Huawei cares about Nigerian youths” she said.