The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has admonished the nation’s security agencies to safeguard the unity of the country by being neutral in all their operations regarding the general elections. The party chair said the PDP was in possession of credible intelligence that some security operatives were being hired by the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) to connive with some officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to manipulate the election in their favour. Secondus, who addressed a crowd of party supporters in Gusau, Zamfara State on Monday at the PDP presidential rally, said that there were still some good patriotic operatives who do their jobs professionally. The party chairman advised the security operatives to be guided by the country’s constitution, saying that any bias roles from them in the coming elections could plunge the country into major crisis. Prince Secondus said the endorsement of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar by the Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Northern Elders Forum, the Pan Niger Delta Forum and leaders of the Middle Belt Elders Forum, showed clearly where the country was heading to in the upcoming elections. “By that endorsement, which APC is refusing to accept as coming from the people, Nigerians of all divides have spoken that the APC administration can no longer continue”, the party chair added. Secondus assured that Atiku will not fail the nation, as, according to him, he has been tested and tried and found to be well equipped for the challenges of the country. He added that a PDP presidency will restore all the collapsed industries in Zamfara and other states, with a view to giving jobs to the people and ensuring adequate security. Also speaking at the rally, Atiku told the crowd that he would give them the airport they requested for, adding however that what they needed most was peace and security, which he promised to address with all seriousness. Atiku also assured the people that he would rebuild the Malori Dam and to also reactivate industrial and agricultural activities in the state. Prominent PDP chieftains at the rally included former Governors of Kano, Niger and Kogi States, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Babangida Aliyu and Idris Wada respectively. A former National Security Adviser (NSA), General Mohammad Alyiu Gusau (rtd) also attended the rally.