Again, it is Mr. Khaleed Tijani’s responses to the last exercise that we will discuss. We thank him very much for his prompt interventions; he is in fact now the lead devotee of this column, as he has always been the first to respond. Mr. Tijani provided the words in CAPITALS and brackets below as cures for the malapropisms featured in the referenced exercise: First: Security is on alert across the boarder (BORDER). The malapropism in the faulty construction is boarder used instead of border. Border is the boundary between one country or territory and another. So, boder is the appropriate word. The same allied problems of faulty pronunciation and wrong spelling must have caused the malapropism here. But you may not rule out the problem of outright ignorance as the source of the error. Our observation is that many writers simply do not recognize the differences between many look-alikes and sound-alikes. The antidote to careless errors that tend to confuse readers and dent the integrity of your writing is to master the different spellings, functions and meanings of words that are otherwise often confused or just taken for granted. See one meaning of boarder to appreciate how far off mark the word is in the context of the message at issue: “A student at a school who sleeps and eats there and only goes home during school holidays” (CALD). Second: I have just discovered that I have nothing to loose (LOSE). This is another every-day, everywhere malapropism; anywhere you turn, you encounter writings using lose to mean loose and vice versa. This is why it is worth highlighting here that lose and loose are different words meaning different things and that one should not be used instead of the other in any context at all. They even belong to different word categories or parts of speech and therefore perform different functions. Loose is an adjective meaning “Not firmly fixed in place” (CALD) like a loose bolt, loose hair, loose dress and so on. On the other hand, lose is a verb meaning “to no longer have something . . .” (ibid.). So, the correct expression is: I have discovered that I have nothing to lose (NOT loose). Third: The nursery will plant new seedlings (FARMER). Mr. Tijani provided the word farmer to replace the word nursery which he took to be the malapropism in the statement. The malapropism in focus is plant, which raises the question: Do nurseries plant seedlings? No, nurseries do not plant seedlings. Instead, “they produce or grow seedlings, that is, the young crops to be planted.” Remember, a nursery is “a place where young plants and trees are grown for sale or for planting somewhere else” (“Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware). Clearly on display in the faulty sentence is unfamiliarity with agric register. Thus, the correct construction is: The nursery will grow new seedlings. Fourth: Keep your windows wound up to avoid opportunistic thieves from snatching your belongings (CLOSE). Again, Mr. Tijani has been unable to identify the malapropism in this weird statement. He seems to have taken the phrasal verb wound up as the malapropism. The malapropian gaffe is the word avoid. Isn’t it syntactic bedlam to write “to avoid opportunistic thieves from snatching your belongings”? The absurdity lies in the collocation or association of avoid and the preposition from. You do not avoid . . . from; you prevent from. So, prevent is the appropriate verb – not avoid. “Pop” Errors in English says, “The rule is that you prevent from, not avoid from,” explaining further that “to prevent is to keep from happening, while to avoid is to evade.” For clarity, we straighten out the correct construction thus: Keep your windows wound up to prevent opportunistic thieves from snatching your belongings. Should anyone insist on using the verb avoid in a security advisory like this, there is a way out. Just keep it direct, thus: Keep your windows wound up to avoid opportunistic thieves who snatch belongings. Fifth: Security exhumes bombs in Kogi (UP). Honestly, it is not clear what to do with the word UP which Mr. Tijani suggested. In other words, we do not know which malapropism in the faulty statement he wants us to replace with UP. The word to cure is exhumes, because it is not appropriately used, even when this example was a headline in a Nigerian national daily. Excavates should suitably replace exhumes, because “You do not exhume objects. Rather, you exhume buried bodies, usually for forensic examination. The dictionary says to exhume is “to remove a dead body from the ground especially to examine how the person died” (“Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware). We suspect someone was being colourful in casting the faulty headline. Ditch the colours, go for precise diction, and let the headline run as follows: Security excavates bombs in Kogi. Let us now spot the differences in the following pairs: