The National Association of the Nigerian Students (NANS) has expressed fears that its 22.3million members may be disenfranchised from voting in the forthcoming election, if the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) strike continues. The students’ body has therefore, threatened mass action, if Federal Government fails to address the lingering crisis between the unions  and the government immediately. It would be recalled that ASUU and ASUP proceeded on indefinite strike in November and December respectively, over government’s refusal to honour some agreements it signed with the unions. The students, who are about 22.3million as stipulated by Independent Electoral Commission (INEC),  registered in their schools   where they can exercise their voting right. To this effect, the body, in a statement signed by the President Comrade Danielson Bamidele Akpan, has vowed to disrupt the election from holding across the 36 states. “The continuous strike action by both ASUU and ASUP has not only brought increased pain on students and their parents, it is now seen as a deliberate ploy to disenfranchise our members, especially those who registered within their school environments and are presently in their various homes,” NANS stated. The statement continued: “Consequently, Nigerian students have decided to take their destinies in their hands, enough of the politics been played with our future. “We wish to inform the general public that Nigerian students would resist any election from holding in any part of the country should our campuses remain shut till election date. We are conscious layers of the nation and on no account shall we allow this sinister disenfranchisement of the largest voting population of our citizens in a major election to pass due to no fault of the students. “We have 22.3million  registered students, eligible to change the destiny of the nation. We refuse to be sacrificed in exercising this obligatory demand to our nation at this crucial moment.  Our voices must be heard and our votes must counts. To this end, the leadership declares ‘operation no resumption no election.”