The new Nissan Kicks combines distinctive styling, nimble performance with Nissan Intelligent Mobility that guarantees seamless connectivity and advanced driver assistance features The Africa-based Kicks models comes with standard six airbags, Bluetooth connectivity, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto integration; 17-inch Alloy wheels, integrated roof rails and a follow-me-home headlight module on all models. The Kicks rides on Nissan’s new V-Platform a lightweight but sturdy platform with perfect balance between ride and handling. First unveiled as a concept in 2014, and showcased across Brazil during summer 2016 to promote the Summer Olympics, of which Nissan was a lead sponsor, the Kicks boasts of being a design collaboration between Nissan’s design studios in California, United States, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and Atsugi, Japan. Stallion NMN, the Nissan Sales Company that unveiled the Kicks, Nissan’s next generation B-segment crossover SUV, promised to assemble at least 500 units yearly to ensure the vehicle is accessible and affordably priced. Its Managing Director,Parvir Singh, who dropped this hint in Lagos, at the media preview of the car, said: “We are looking at assembling the Nissan Kicks very soon to further bring down the cost.” The Kicks is, undoubtedly, everything Nissan has leaned as the crossover pioneer and it has spared nothing in making the vehicle one of the most attractive crossover yet – incorporating Nissan’s design cues and tagline –“Innovation that excites.” An astonishing sport utility vehicle (SUV), Nissan Kicks comes equipped with the new Nissan V-motion platform recently integrated in the entire Nissan range of passenger vehicles. Also coming to Africa as one of the most reputable new vehicles in the planet world, the Kicks is undoubtedly big on attitude and self-expression, and will replace the Juke at the small end of Nissan’s SUV line-up, the dealership assured. Designed to standout , the Kicks styling showcases the best of Nissan’s design elements including a large V-motion grille, clear wrap-around headlights and integrated boomerang LED daytime running lights on appropriate models. The striking front-end is complimented by blacked-out side pillars for a modern floating roof look, large wheels and a steeply sloping windscreen to give it a striking on-road presence. At the rear, the Kicks is fitted with an integrated spoiler. Stallion NMN Head Sales and Marketing Amit Sharma said: “While the striking front end has won it many compliments, it is Kicks’ profile view that has wowed judges at its many awards. “The designers took their time to black-out all three pillars to create the impression of a floating roof, which slopes towards the rear and meets a rising shoulder line at the C-pillar.” Despite its compact dimensions, the Kicks offer astonishing amounts of interior space – thanks in part to the brand-new Nissan architecture, which includes a longer-than-usual 2,620mm wheelbase. The Kicks luggage space measures 383 litres with the seats upright, which is almost as large as cars in a larger vehicle class just as the cabin has a range of storage spaces, including a lidded glove-box, deep door pockets, drink holders and cubby holes in the centre console. It has also been equipped with sturdier suspension assemblies, which do not transfer as much vibration into the cabin thus making the car as comfortable and fuss-free as possible, the sales and marketing helmsman affirmed. A great deal of attention to detail has gone into the three-spoke-flat-bottom steering wheel with a matt chrome finish for a quality appearance, which has a new ergonomically designed grip section allowing the driver’s grasp to be naturally tight. The central spokes house controls for the audio and phone systems and driver information displays. Behind the shaped steering wheel, the driver has quick access to driving information – thanks to the integrated drive computer between the speedometer and tachometer. Nissan Kicks come with an optional seven-inch touchscreen, which includes audio streaming and phone connectivity via Bluetooth and reverse camera.