NOLLYWOOD actress Amanda Ebeye is set to kick off her second production by the middle of the year. Amanda, who is now into directing after a year programme at Tribal Institute in 2017, in this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, speaks on her new productions, passion, and being a mom. Excerpts THIS is your first time as a producer. How would you describe the experience? I wouldn’t say it does not have its hiccup but so far, I have tried to overcome it in some way. Actually, on this set, I am the executive producer; a bit involved in the producing. And I also have a coordinator as well. There is a lot of distress, but I try to take it out, because I am acting and directing some episodes as well. So I don’t want anything that will bring me down as a producer – that is because you are dealing with actors, location, and so many others. I didn’t know you are also directing? I am a director; I went to Tribal institute, where I specialised in film/television production. So I did that in 2017 for a full year. We see directing as lot of yelling? I don’t think it has to do with yelling. I think it is what you make of it yourself. For me, I don’t think yelling at people will bring the best out of them. Because if you yell at me, it won’t yield any result. It will only make me more rebellious. So, I would prefer you take me to a corner and talk to me. I try as much as I can not to yell at people, because the kind of people I want on my set are not those that will just cram the script and spit it out. I want the interpretation to come from within and more natural. I believe talking to people and making friends with them, helps to get a good delivery. You started off as an actress and now, diversifying. Were you not fulfilled as an actress? I still tell people I am an actress. In as much as I like to create my own magic; that is why I am doing my own thing. Creativity in filming is what I have passion for. And when I go to people’s location as an actor, I have little input, besides what I am asked to play. I am just a pawn in the hands of the director at that point. So when I want people to see my own creativity, then I have to create mine and that is what I am doing now. You feature more in sitcom now. Is this deliberate? No, I do movies as well. It is just that I started with sitcom upon my entry into the movie world, so I am going back to what I started with. That is my root. And I am back to sitcom; in my own sitcom. I have passion for comedy and that is why I am taking it on. Tell us about yourself Amanda is an actor, a filmmaker, a mother and an entrepreneur in general. I told myself I have no other passion elsewhere except in the film business. And that is where I am, where I struggled, where I will grow, and be rich. And besides TV/film, I am taking care of my son. So those are the two jobs I have working for me. You also mentioned being an entrepreneur? Yes, I used to be in the hair business, but I actually liquidated my business and invested it in my film production. Actually this is my second time of being a producer. I did a short film titled Horrors; it is going to premiere soon. The money I got from my hair business, I put all into my film production. That is to tell you how much passion I have for entertainment. Tell us about your motherhood experience It is a wonderful feeling. It is just funny how I gave birth to my son. I am not a typical average girl that has a typical girly dream; which is get married, be a mom and all others. I think I am more of a career girl.  And when that happened I said to myself ‘let me embrace it’ and I did. I have not regretted and brings out the best in me. Before, I was only into acting and never thought of diversifying; I mean the business aspect of filmmaking. I was more of an actor; who didn’t care how much I was paid. It was just more of passion for me. But now that I have my boy, he is the one that takes all of my money. When I became a mother, I found out that you could actually love somebody, more than you love yourself. Yes I love my family, but my son is different for me. While pregnant, were you sceptical about having a son outside wedlock? While growing up, I have learnt that if you live by what people say, you are going to die faster than time. You will find yourself doing things just to please people and not to please yourself. And the question will be are they going to be with you till the end? Or be at a corner judging you? And that is where you’re always going to stay, at the corner. So if you live your life because of the people at the corner, then you are not living life. One commitment I made to myself; I would not let people influence me, my thought, and my act. Simply because that is what I wanted to do at that particular time and it worked for me. I made up my mind that even if I was going to get judged, I won’t care about what people were going to say. What I was going to care about was my inner thought. Are you thinking of having another child? I earlier said I am not the average typical girl. I am one person that says one child gives me joy, but I don’t believe that all the joy have to come directly from me. I might have kids tomorrow, but they might be directly from me. There are so many children out there without parents, and I can instead of giving birth and feel the world is actually watching out for me, help take care of those children that do not have anybody to call ‘mom’. I know I will definitely adopt, once I am more comfortable and be where I want to be. I can then adopt the number of children I want. You relocated to Canada and returned. Why? I did not relocate; my son is the one that lives in Canada. I am a Canadian and Nigerian. My son is there, so I am more with him, but I have not relocated at all. It is election time, what is your thought? I try to stay away from election drama and politics. I am not a politician, but there is something I will just tell people; that is to vote for the right person. I know sometimes we say the president might not be working the way they want him to. One thing I know is that nothing changes drastically, everything is time. I am not going to support anybody, because I stay away from politics, but when we are making a decision, we should make the right one. And know that change starts from us and not the top. What are your hopes as the year runs on? I already see it as a beautiful one and bright. I already started with a production and it is a Crazy World TV series, where I am the executive producer, director and also an actor. It is a lot of work; I planned this production for like two years ago (in) 2017 when I was in film school. And one thing I had going for me, was all the actors I dreamed of having on the set are in it. There was nobody that dropped along the way. It means that if we have faith and work hard, what we dream of must come through. I believe 2019 is going to be an amazing year. The rest, I always say, I leave to God, to make my dreams come true at the end of the year.