Residents of Odo Ora in Ido/Osi Local Government Area, Ekiti State have locked their monarch out of palace. The aggrieved residents faulted the procedure that produced the monarch, saying he failed to observe traditional rite, an act they claimed was antithetical to the tradition of the town. The kingmakers and other community leaders also alleged that the monarch was not formally installed as traditional procession were circumvented. One of the community leaders, Prof. Olawumi Ajaja, disclosed Odo Ora indigenes had nothing against the embattled monarch but the process produced him. Ajaja, former Rector of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, said the locals still see the monarch as an Oba-elect alleging that traditional rites were yet to be performed. The monarch Obalemo of Odo Ora, Oba Samuel Akinola Adeyemo appealed to the State Government to save him from being deposed from the throne. The monarch in his Save My Soul (SOS) petition forwarded to the State Government on the crisis told the Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi that he had been locked out of the palace by suspected hoodlums allegedly mobiliSed by some interest groups in the community. Egbeyemi, during a peace meeting in his office on Wednesday, condemned the violence that recently rocked the community. According to statement by his Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, Egbeyemi warned that the full weight of the law would be visited on individuals fomenting trouble in Odo Ora. Egbeyemi said government had to summon the peace meeting following intelligence report from security agencies on possible outbreak of violence over the kingship crisis. The deputy governor warned stakeholders in Odo Ora to maintain peace stressing that government won’t depose any monarch in the state. He advised Odo Ora indigenes aggrieved with the emergence of Oba Adeyemo as the Obalemo to seek redress in the court of law. Egbeyemi further stressed that government would not fold its arms and allow the situation to degenerate into anarchy adding that anybody caught fomenting trouble would be arrested and prosecuted. The deputy governor urged parties in the crisis to report back in his office on February 21 for a follow-up peace parley to resolve the impasse.