All is set for the maiden edition of a new reality televison show, Queen Varsity Afrika, focused on empowering young ladies with ‘Beauty plus Brains.’ Open to female African undergraduates and recent graduates, the show is a production of Pillar and Pride of Afrika with collaboration from the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, FUNAAB. The boot camp which held on the sprawling FUNAAB campus had 16 of the ladies from various Nigerian higher institutions and one of who schools in Benin Republic. While there, the ladies were taken on sessions aimed to address issues such as health, safety, Self-esteem, culture, tourism, information technology, entrepreneurial skills and humanitarian outreach. Called ‘Princesses’, the 17 ladies will slug it out with various tasks among themselves to clinch the crown of Queen as the cameras follow them. The 13-episode programme will run on NTA 2 Lagos, Jive TV on Startimes and several online portals beginning from February 11, 2019. Viewers would have the opportunity to vote via www.queenvarsityafrika.com and on the show’s social media for their favourite housemates into the next round where the princesses would be whittled to 10. These 10 ladies would now proceed to the grand finale where the Queen Varsity Afrika 2019 would emerge. The MD/CEO of Pillar and Pride of Afrika, who is also the executive producer of the show, Jasmine Ofoegbu, said that idea first came to her in 2010 and it “is an empowerment programme that will avail the contestants the opportunity for self-realization, self-actualization, as well as boost their self-esteem. The contestants, while in the boot camp in the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta, were tutored and mentored by notable and respectable Nigerians in various fields of endeavours, including the former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, making it the first ever reality TV show to feature a former two time President.” Thanking FUNAAB for its support, Ofoegbu also appealed for sponsorship for the program. “We are also ready to partner with agencies, brands and organisations who are ready to join in empowering the African Girl Child using the platform of our educative and entertaining Queen Varsity Afrika reality tv project this edition and in subsequent ones,” she said.