 An unidentified Mobile Police Force personnel was on Sunday afternoon reportedly killed by unknown gunmen in Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State. Unconfirmed reports have it that the deceased was a security officer attached to a popular hotel located off Azikiwe Road by East in the commercial city. The gunmen said to be numbering four, according to reports who came in a tricycle, after killing the Mobile Policeman went away with his AK 47 riffle as they shoot sporadically into the air. The incident, which our reporter gathered occurred at about 2pm, caused pandemonium in the area as passersby and visitors to the hotel scampered for safety. It was learnt that though the policeman was quickly evacuated to a nearby hospital for prompt medical attention, he was however said to have died before help could come his way due to heavy blood loss. It was learnt that a colleague of the deceased had gone out when the gunmen struck. A source, who said that he was at the hotel to watch a Spanish football match between Real Madrid versus Girona, told our reporter that they were at the bar drinking and waiting for the match when they heard three gun shots. “People from outside started running while we took cover at the hotel bar. After three minutes later, we came out to find the body of the policeman on the floor. “We ran towards there in a bid to assist other hotel boys to see if he could be revived. “It was then that they told us that the gunmen came with Keke NAPEP, unknown to the officer, they shut him three times and took his gun. “They were two policemen on duty. The other one, we learnt had gone out before the incident happened. He came back to meet the colleague in the pool of his blood.” When contacted, the spokesman of Abia State Police Command, SP Geoffrey Ogbonna said he was yet-to-be briefed on the incident and promised to furnish our reporter with information on any development. A source within the Abia Police Command, who spoke to our reporter anonymously, confirmed the death of the police officer. According to the source, the police are suspecting the gunmen were armed robbers or political thugs who needed the gun to carry out their nefarious act. The source, who expressed worries over the recent attack on security operatives, disclosed that yet-to-be known gunmen attacked and killed a member of the Abia State Vigilante Service popularly known as Bakassi Boys at one of the busiest area Ama Hausa by Mosque road and made away with the vigilante personnel’s pump action gun. 