The Court of Appeal in Abuja has reserved judgments in the four appeals filed by the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen. A three-man panel of the court, led by Justice Stephen Adah, after taking arguments from parties, in respect of the appeals, said they will be informed when judgments were ready. The appeals are CA/A/44c/2019; CA/A/CA/A/63c/19; CA:A/70c/2019 and CA/A/114c/2019. Onnoghen is, by his first appeal, challenging the jurisdiction of the CCT to hear the charge against him, being a serving judicial officer. He is, in the second appeal, querying the propriety of the CCT’s ruling of January 14 this year, in which it elected to hear all pending applications The third appeal is against the CCT ex-parte order directing Onnoghen to vacate office as CJN and for President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint an acting CJN. The fourth appeal challenges the competence of the warrant of arrest issued against the suspended CJN by the CCT. The arrest warrant, issued on February 13 this year, was vacated by the CCT on February 15 when Onnoghen voluntarily attended the sitting of the CCT, during which he was arraigned. Chris Uche (SAN), who argued Onnoghen’s appeals urged the court to grant his client’s prayers and reject the notices of objection filed by the respondent (Federal Republic of Nigeria). Uche urged the court to, particularly, inquire into circumstances surrounding the grant of the ex-parte order by the CCT a day after parties appeared before the court and agreed to an adjournment. He claimed that the prosecution was not represented by any lawyer on January 23 this year when the ex-parte order was made, a claim lawyer to the respondent, Aliyu Umar (SAN) faulted. Umar, who is also the lead prosecution lawyer in the case before the CCT, urged the court to reject all the appeals and uphold the respondent’s notices of objection. He argued that there was no material before the court on which it could inquire into the circumstances surrounding the grant of the ex-parte order. Umar noted that the appellant failed to tender a copy of the order and record of the proceedings, a claim Uche later countered in his reply on point of law.