If the pace of work at the Cancer Treatment Centre at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) is sustained, it will soon be ready for public use like its counterpart at the National Hospital in Abuja. The ongoing phased installation of modern equipment in some public hospitals means cancer patients may no longer have to travel abroad for treatment, reports ADEKUNLE YUSUF It was a visit that brought glad tidings to many homes. Last weekend’s visit of Health Minister, Prof Isaac Adewole to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) brought with it good news: from next month, cancer patients will not need to travel abroad for treatment. They will be taken care of here in Nigeria, courtesy of the ongoing world class Cancer Treatment Centre being built at LUTH.   Prof Adewole broke the news after inspecting the centre, which has reached its advanced stage in Lagos. By the time it is inuagurated probably in February, the centre will open up more access to people who need treatment for cancer. Being installed at the centre are VitalBeam High Energy and Halcyon Low Energy cancer machines. According to Prof Adewole, investing in cancer treatment means more people will have the opportunity of being treated in the country, rather than travelling abroad for treatment at exorbitant prices. “The main purpose of investing in this cancer treatment centre is to treat more people in the country, rather than travelling out for treatment. Also, the best place to treat patients is when they are among their people and seeing their relations every day. So, we are trying to achieve that and save people’s money because it will be cheaper than travelling outside. “We noticed that treatment is beyond the modalities that we offer. Three modalities for cancer treatment are chemotherapy, radiation and surgery because most cancer cases are always presented late. Improving awareness on cancer treatment will make people to come early for treatment and reduce late presentation of cancer cases,” Adewole said. After expressing his satisfaction with the pace of construction progress on the site, the minister disclosed that the Federal Government plans to replicate the centre in many health institutions across the country. “LUTH has a first-class of biomedical centre, which we planned to support other centres. I know LUTH will manage the machine properly, which means abandoned and broken equipment will be a thing of the past. There will also be long time maintenance contract that will enable us to manage the cancer machine. So, by February, this centre will start operation fully for the benefits of the patients,” Adewole said. The minister also said 40 per cent of cancer cases can be prevented if people can change their sedentary lifestyles, stressing that most cancers can be treated if detected early. According to the professor of gynaecology and obstetrics, cancer prevention starts when people begin to watch and change their lifestyles, especially the way they move around, sleep, eat, what they drink and majorly, staying away from tobacco. “Improving awareness on cancer treatment will make people come early for treatment and reduce late presentation of cancer cases. So, we are trying to achieve that and save people’s money because it will be cheaper than travelling outside. We noticed that treatment is beyond the modalities that we offer. Three modalities for cancer treatment are chemotherapy, radiation and surgery because most cancer cases are always presented late,” he said. Corroborating the minister, LUTH Chief Medical Director, Prof. Chris Bode, said the essence of the idea behind establishing a world-class cancer treatment centre in the teaching hospital is to reduce medical tourism. “We are really looking forward to the inauguration of the cancer treatment centre because many Nigerians will benefit from it. When our machines were working properly, a lot of people came from different states for treatment here. We already have the manpower, but we are trying to also retrain our experts on how to maintain and use the machine properly,” he said. Also last year, the country recorded a similar feat when the National Hospital, Abuja, had its cancer treatment facilities improved with the installation of new Multileave Linear Accelerator (LINAC) machine. At the inauguration of the radiotherapy centre in the hospital, Vice-President’s wife, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, said the initiative is geared towards providing succour for cancer patients in terms of screening and treatment. Earlier this year, Prof. Adewole also inspected the cancer centre extension project and the newly-installed second cancer equipment at the National Hospital in Abuja. This was donated by SNEPCO Nigeria limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The new facilities, valued at more than $1 million, is said to have the capacity to treat at least one hundred patients daily. What this means is that the Abuja National Hospital can handle 200 cancer patients per day when the two machines at the centre are fully in use. After the installation of the second cancer equipment at the National Hospital, the health minister was ecstatic that the treatment available in the hospital is comparable to what is obtainable in other parts of the world. He was optimistic that cancer patients in Nigeria will only travel abroad for treatment by choice, not as a necessity to save lives. “The purpose of the building is to put in place a first-class treatment centre for cancer treatment in Nigeria, but our vision is not just to offer treatment to Nigerians but to people in West Africa. And we think what we have on the ground, we should be able to do that and when we offer treatment to non-Nigerians, we will be able to make money to keep the services going and also prevent people going out when such services are available in Nigeria,” he said. The minister also promised that the centre would receive a PEI/CT machine (an imaging device for cancer diagnosis and treatment), adding that the cost of treatment  will depend on the type of cancer. He, however, added that the government would keep revising the cost of treatment to make it affordable. While arguing that cancer treatment in Nigeria has no fixed cost, he said cost depends on the degree of the illness and the type. “When we started, we were giving 50 per cent rebate, which is less than what it would cost for you to fly to India and the cost will be continually revised to make sure that people can afford it. Even when you cannot afford it, we will not deny you treatment but find money to support you,” he added. While reiterating government’s commitment towards reducing the cancer burden in the country, he said the on-going phased installation of cancer treatment machines in the country shows that government is doing everything to actualise its dream of having one cancer treatment centre at each of the six geo-political zones of the country, in addition to the nine other cancer centres in the country. Nigeria’s frightening cancer statistics In recent years, Nigeria has been plagued by increasing cases of people afflicted with cancer. It is a terminal disease that kills people in large numbers, while many are still battling for survival. The most common in Nigeria for women are breast cancer, cervix cancer ovarian cancer, and colorectal cancer, while prostate cancer, liver cancer, and colorectal cancer are some of the most common cases in men. The annual harvest of deaths has been huge. In its ground-breaking rapid assessment of the prevention and control of cancer report last year, the Wellbeing Foundation Africa (WBFA) said cancer is responsible for 72,000 deaths in Nigeria every year. The report, being the first independent national research on cancer prevention, also claimed that Nigeria suffers about 102,000 new cancer cases annually. The report, which also contained recommendations on how to urgently improve and close gaps in cancer treatment and prevention system in the country, came on the heels of the launch of Nigeria’s Cancer Control Plan (NCCP) by the Federal Government. Also, going by the latest statistics from WHO, Nigeria is expected to have a 75 per cent increase in cancer-induced deaths by 2030. Being one of the low-medium income countries, Nigeria is predicted to suffer from the effects of the virus, WHO regional director for Africa, Dr. Matshidiso Moeti, said during the 2018 World Cancer Day commemoration. With medical centres lacking the diagnostic capacity to detect and treat cancer infections, many patients that afford overseas treatment hardly hesitate to travel to India and other countries with better medical facilities. The economic consequence of what is now referred to as medical tourism is that it has led to capital flight to the detriment of the nation’s health sector. Is the picture about to change?