Ondo State-born saxophonist Babatunde Balogun, also known as Saxtee, was introduced into playing the musical instrument at a tender age and has been doing music professionally for 25 years. The saxophonist speaks to ADENIYI ADEWOYIN in this interview about how his love for music has shaped his life and fledgling musical career and other issues. Excerpts How did you hone your latent skill in music? I grew up listening serially and studiously to a lot of veteran and star musicians in the likes of Groover Washington, Eddy Okonta, Victor Olaiya, Victor Uwaifo, and Oliver de Coque. They actually struck a chord in me with their dexterity and mastery in their individual art. That was specifically when? Ehmm! I think that was as a very small child. I grew up loving music, even as I never got any kind of objection from my parents. It was those years when my uncles and their friends used to come around the house, and whenever they sent me on errands, I would hang around local music stores to listen to all sorts of musical genres, especially foreign and jazz music, almost always not remembering what I was sent to do. I just used to listen then as a pleasure; I didn’t even know who sang the songs. It was basically a listening pleasure for me then. So how did you metamorphose into a professional musician? That is another story on its own. I once worked with the marketing department of The Guardian newspapers for a couple of years before facing music squarely. I have been doing music professionally for 25 years now. I started with the trumpet and later moved to playing the saxophone. Tell us about some of the works you have done musically My first album was entitled, ‘Stepping Out’, while my second album was entitled ‘Moving On.’ I have also released two singles entitled, ‘Elohim’ and ‘Time to Shine.’ I will also soon be dropping two other albums, which have been entitled ‘Aseda’ and ‘Peace’ respectively. Since you launched out as a musician, has it ever taken you outside the shores of Nigeria? To God I give the glory. Music has taken me to South Africa – Durban Film Festival, Johannesburg and Cape Town. I have been to Ghana, Amsterdam, Israel and USA, specifically in 2005 with the Olatunde Silver Band, where I stood in as the band manager then. And later this year, I am planning on going for the 2018 Festival of Culture in the USA, courtesy of Mr. Samuel Ekundayo, popularly known as Sammek, a US-based promoter. I will be touring different cities with my band afterwards. You talked about going on tour with your own band. What is the strength of your band? I have a 12-man band. I have performed with local and international artistes such as Adlan Cruz, Ron Kenoly, Daniel Winans of the Winans music family, Eddy Okonta, Oliver de Coque, Steve Rhodes, Daniel Wilson, Charley Boy, Orits Wiliki, Chris MBA,  Ayo Bankole jnr, among others. I played the maiden edition of the Lagos and Calabar carnivals. What is your attitude towards challenges? I like challenges as much as I like victories. I don’t like disappointments. So, when challenges come, I love to be around people who are focused so as to overcome them. Meanwhile, I dislike lazy and unprofessional people. Where do you see your brand in five years? And in five years, I see Saxtee bigger and better taking the African brand in music to places of repute. As a married man, is your wife not bothered about your female fans? I have been married for over 25years … Blessed with children. I don’t have problems coping with female fans, I respect them and I get lots of referrals from them. Strictly business. My wife has no fear at all. How did you meet your wife? I met my wife in the choir while I was one of the leaders in the team. It was love at first sight although I didn’t go after her immediately. Thank God I didn’t miss her What do you think the industry needs presently? We need cooperation. We need more of cooperation… What are the challenges you face as a secular musician? There are not so much challenges in being a secular musician this time around in Nigeria. Secular musicians are accepted by larger audience. Some are even welcome in churches and other religious ground. Gospel artistes enjoy support from Nigerian audience but not as much as the secular musicians. Thank God for churches who have done so much to ensure gospel artistes are well-cared for. How would you describe your kind of music? My own kind of music is a crossover. It really doesn’t matter which side of the divide you are, you will always find something that appeals to you. My music can make you reflect on the past and help push you into the future. What is your perception about life? My perception about life is simplicity. Take life easy. At every available opportunity, make an impact, be a blessing to others as God blesses you. What is your greatest fear? My greatest fear is betrayal.