Jasmine Ofoegbu is the executive producer of Queen Varsity Afrika, a reality television show that celebrates ‘beauty plus brains’. The maiden edition which is currently on air has 17 female African undergraduates and graduates competing for the crown. And in this interview with JOE AGBRO JR. Jasmine, who is also the founder of a modelling and talent management, Pillars and Pride of Afrika, talks about putting up the show, her background and the future. Excerpts WHAT exactly made you decide to do the reality show? I think it came from my business background. I run a model and talent management. It’s called Pillars and Pride of Afrika. And the usual thinking about female models – feel like they are just good looking girls and that’s where it ends. And I don’t believe in that. This whole idea came up in 2010. But I just kept brooding on it, building it up like that. Asides that, there are many young girls out there who may not be able to attend other reality shows because of some certain reasons. We can always have a TV reality show that isn’t based on nudity or bikini and we still sell brilliantly looking girls – girls who are beautiful and girls who are intelligent. We took that risk. Even if people won’t like the show, let’ try it out and see. What are the criteria for choosing the girls in the Queen Varsity Afrika reality TV show? You have to be either an undergraduate or a fresh graduate. The girls were in camp for a period of time and then they were drilled, given different tasks. So the show goes on. Everybody would have to watch these 13 episodes for three months and every day, you would vote for your top ten. So, every week, we publish whoever is top ten for that week. We would be dropping 10 girls. Then the top ten who would now be in the grand finale. There would be activities that would now determine who would win the crown on that day. It’s not a pageant. The 13 episodes have been pre-recorded. Is the show a winner-takes-it-all? There would be consolation prizes. Even the 17 girls may end up benefitting because the whole idea is to empower these young brilliant ladies because we’re looking at them going for seminars and trainings within this one year in Nigeria and outside Nigeria. It’s not just a game show. It’s a show where every day, you’re being empowered. Every day, you will be going for seminars. When the young girl is idle, before you know it, the person would be a slay queen forever. But we want to build slay queens who are brilliant, that they can comport themselves, they can speak, they can attend boardroom meetings. Is this your first time putting up such an event? Yes, this is my first time organising an event like this. And it was because of the passion. This whole idea came about a long time ago, like October 2010 actually. That was when this whole idea came up. And I just kept fine-tuning, writing to people. But it was a good thing I didn’t put it then because the platform we have now, we didn’t have then. So, it would have been much more challenging if we had done it as at then. So, apart from this, what do you do? I’m the MD/CEO of a model and talent management company called Pillars and Pride of Afrika. We manage models, talents; we work with big brands. Majority of the adverts you see on TV, billboards you see out there, majority of them are from Pillars and Pride of Afrika. That’s part of the background of this Queen Varsity Afrika. And you’ve been doing the model agency since 2010? Yes, I have. In fact, I served in my own agency to show you how passionate I was about it. During my NYSC, my company was already registered. I served in Lagos and we were asked to bring our letter. I printed my letterhead, typed and gave it to them. So, it’s just a passion-driven project. How did your entrepreneurial drive start? I saved a lot. I attended Igbinedion University and even when I was in school, I would come to Lagos at weekends. I would buy chains, I would go to China Town and I would buy different things, take back to my school. And then I would sell them. Then I would save the money. Then I realised I had about N50K when I wanted to start my business. And with N50K, I got my business name registered. I did my complimentary card, I did my letterhead. And little money still remained. So, I think no matter how big or how small, don’t buy anything that is unnecessary with your money. Before you spend that money, think properly. If I had spent the money I was saving and the opportunity came for my business, I would have been broke. So, I would have had challenges because you need money to run a business. And I had already had another business I was doing to raise money for another business that I thought I was probably going to have later in the future. Luckily for me, I had it earlier before I finished school. What do you think government should do to boost SMEs? They should make taxing very clear; let people understand what it is all about. People should know what they are paying for, how they should go about the payment. They shouldn’t double-tax. They shouldn’t scare people who are into business. They should be very friendly with them because these SMEs won’t walk up to the government and say ‘give me money’ and government would give them. Now, they are doing things for themselves. Let the government just find a way. If you want to tax them, tax them but don’t scare them. Make them very clear. Give them information. People need information. If you go to some government institution, they would be hoarding information from you until you insist and insist. It would now look as if you’re trying to challenge them, which is not nice. They should have like an internet platform where people can just log in and get information; where people can walk in and get information without being made to pay for it.