•He is drowning, says varsity Suspended Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ambrose Alli University chapter, Prof. Monday Igbafen, yesterday opened a can of worms on the institution, in his attempt to fight back. Igbafen, an Associate Professor in the Department of Philosophy, was suspended for alleged sexual harassment. Addressing reporters in Benin City, the Edo State capital, Prof. Igbafen said he was being victimised for asking the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ignacious Onimawo, to account for the about N5.5billion received from Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) and NEEDS Assessment intervention funds. He said he fell out with Prof. Onimawo because of his non- compromising approach to acts of impunity exhibited by the VC. Igbafen said wife of the vice chancellor was elevated to the position of lecturer 1 from a position of a typist. He said: “We (ASUU) challenged him to be open and transparent. You cannot move your wife from nowhere and make her a lecturer 1 without a PhD and academic master’s degree. We have been on the matter and he has made attempts to compromise me as the chairman of the union, and I refused. “That led to his desperation that I should never be chairman of ASUU for the second time. “The university has collected more than N5.5billion for the past five years. From the TETFUND, he has received more than N3.4billion, while the money from NEEDS Assessment is more than N1.2billion. “The union is demanding how he has utilised these funds. Is it a sin to ask for how he has utilised our funds?” But spokesman for the university, Mr. Edward Aihevba, said there were other charges against Prof. Igbafen, but the issue of sexual harassment was as a result of a petition from the victim’s family. He said the victim and her mother testified before a panel, but the former administration did not look into the report. Aihevba said the VC has been prudent in administering intervention funds from NEEDs Assessment and TETFUND. Said he: “Prof. Igbafen should not be shouting. He is afraid that he is sinking. He should face the music. There are other things he did and at the appropriate time, he will be made to answer for them. “The VC’s wife entered the university as a young woman. She got her degrees and was converted by a former administration and not her husband. She got her PhD and was made lecturer 1.” Aihevba urged Prof. Igbafen to get proper education on how intervention funds are utilised within a university system. 