Nigeria is up against a momentous year on multiple fronts. On one hand, there is game-changing national elections. Economic agenda is at the heart of the nation’s efforts to overcome imbalances, implement reforms and accelerate growth. Women in Management, Business and Public Service (WIMBIZ) is canvassing the emergence of women change agents on the political scene to promote growth, DANIEL ESSIET reports. As Nigerians seek ways to boost  economic growth, relying on women will help a great deal.  Some countries have relied on them to boost their productivity and stimulate demand. Against this backdrop, a women movement is set to hold discussions on gender equality, with focus on the political and economic spheres. Speaking in Lagos, the Women in Management, Business and Public Service (WIMBIZ), Executive Director, Mrs Hansatu Adegbite, said   women have contributed to the growth of the country. She said women entrepreneurs and professionals have done a lot to drive the gross domestic product (GDP) and create jobs. Mrs Adegbite said across the business terrain, the association has  achieved much in terms of providing women in leadership positions and in boardrooms. What more can be done to boost the potential of women? She said WIMBIZ wants opportunities for women leaders. With so much evidence of successful female leadership, she added that so much is at stake for political and economic prospects, if  efforts are made to close the gender gap. She said the organisation supports higher female labour participation and more women in parliament. Eventful Limited Chief  Executive Mrs Yewande Zaccheaus said  WIMBIZ aims at assisting women vying for political offices. She explained  that women were, arguably, the most under-tapped resource for accelerating economic growth through political participation. As part of this, she said the organisation is  holding a town hall meeting today at Harbour Point, Victoria Island, Lagos, on how to help female politicians sell their programmes. The Managing Partner/CEO BrandZone, Mrs Chizor Malize,  said increased participation of women could provide the impetus for the development of the economy. She emphasised that gender equity has positive economic outcomes and that increasing the presence of women in politics is correlated to wider economic impact. She said the group believes  that more talented women should be in elected office and more need to be in the pipeline. To this end, she said the organisation is using the training to  broaden its networks and encourage more women to run, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it is the smart thing to do. She said the forum would be moderated by the Executive Director, Enough is Enough Nigeria,Yemi Ademolekun,  adding that it would feature women candidates contesting the forthcoming elections.