Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has stressed the negative consequences of hate speech in any polity, while emphasizing the need for Nigerians to focus on the issues that bind rather than those that cause division in the country. Osinbajospoke on Friday at the public presentation and launching of the book, The Making of a Million Smiles: Reflections on Rwanda’s Rise from Ashes by Rear Admiral Samuel Ilesanmi Alade at the National Defense College, Abuja. Represented by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello,  Osibanjo said there are lessons Nigerians should learn from the Rwandan genocide of 1994; and the mistakes and the success story. He also said the book would be useful to every Nigerian. According to a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, to the minister, Cosmas Uzodinma, the Vice President commended the author for the worthy contribution to the nation’s body of literary, adding that the work is a practical reminder, which could not have come at a better time as the country prepares for the 2019 elections. The Chairman of the occasion, a former Federal Commissioner for Information and Culture, Major General Ibrahim Bata Malgwi Haruna (rtd), said the book gave a good account of the Rwandan genocide and how the people have moved on, giving the hope that no matter the circumstance, trust can be regained through consistent seeking of the truth and peace as well as working towards inclusiveness and cooperation. He called on Nigerians to shun hate speech in its entirety as well as all other utterances that could cause discord and heat up the polity. Haruna said the launch presented an opportunity to draw and share the experience of Rwanda, urging all Nigerians to support the author’s effort. Rear Admiral Alade (rtd) said the book was an admonition to all and sundry that the Rwandan genocide did not just happen overnight but was as a result of hate speeches which persisted over time, pointing to what Nigeria is experiencing at the moment. He stressed the need for a complete departure from such a trend. Tthe Rwandan High Commissioner to Nigeria, Stanislas Kamanzi, commended the author for writing his thoughts on the lessons to be learnt from his country’s period of great grief. He expressed the hope that Nigerians would learn from past mistakes and go on to make the country great.