• Matriculates 190 students The First Technical University (Tech-U), Ibadan plans to appoint people with rich experience in professional practice as professors to join its growing faculty. Its Vice Chancellor Prof Ayobami Salami broke the news during the university’s second matriculation  and investiture of University Scholars. Salami explained that the idea would enrich students’ experience, adding that it would also enable them to interact with role models in their careers. When executed, Tech-U will be the first university to integrate non-academics into its faculty. Said Salami:  “As a way of enriching the experience of our students, Tech-U is putting finishing touches to a policy of attracting highly experienced industry players for appointment as Professors of Practice”. According to him, the professors  are professionals, either practising or retired with or without traditional academic backgrounds, who have distinguished themselves in their fields of practice. Salami said the policy was strategic to the university, which prides itself on its disruptive model of tertiary technical education, as it would deepen the integration of academic scholarship with practical industry experience. “Knowing that delivering on our mandate of a unique education model requires capable, experienced and passionate manpower, we have consistently ensured that we recruit the brightest hands in the various fields of study to teach our students. I am proud to say our growing faculty consists of some of the best from the available pool of experts. Additionally, we have also engaged scholars in the diaspora as visiting lecturers to strengthen the pool,” Salami added. He continued: “On our part, we will not leave any stone unturned in ensuring that we motivate our staff, who already are about the best paid in the public tertiary education system in Nigeria, to be able to nurture our students to become intellectual giants who dictate trends in their fields.” A total of 190 students, who were admitted into the 15 programmes across the two faculties, took the oath of matriculation. The event also doubled as the investiture of 14 outstanding students, dubbed as Tech-U scholars, who made a first class in their first session with their cumulative grade point average (CGPA) ranging between 4.91 and 4.50 on a scale of maximum of five. Salami noted that of all the pioneer students honoured, 12 of them were beneficiaries of the scholarship scheme endowed by Chairmen of local governments areas of Oyo State. Presenting their letters of award, Salami said in addition to the symbolic honour of joining procession during all university programmes, the scholars would also enjoy  N10,000 stipend monthly. The overall best student, James Olayemi Ogunro of the Mechanical Engineering Department will collect N15, 000 monthly, among other privileges. The matriculation, which is coming only 10 months after the first, had in attendance Oyo State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr. Bimbo Kolade and other dignitaries, including chairmen of local governments in the state.