With the 2019 Presidential elections just four days away, more support appears to be going the way of President Muhammadu Buhari. This definitely was boosted by the campaign rallies embarked upon by President Buhari and his team. Earlier, some members of his camp, who felt that he would not be strong enough for the tough rigours of campaign rallies, had proposed only zonal rallies for the President, while the much younger Vice President Yemi Osinbajo should do more of the door-to-door campaigns across the country. But Buhari, to the surprise of many Nigerians, had insisted that he would physical embark on aggressive campaigns to every state of the Federation. Four days to the election, Buhari had physical campaigned in over 30 states of the Federation for his reelection into the number one political office in the land. While he was doing that, Osinbajo had intensified his door-to-door campaigns for second term to every nooks and crannies of the country. Not even the chopper crash in Kabba, Kogi State, last upper Saturday could deter Osinbajo. Like the normal difficulty experience when trying to place a cat on its back, Osinbajo cheated death and rose from the rubbles of the crash to continue his campaign in Kogi State the same day and hour. The campaigns were definitely intensified in the past few weeks to leave no stone unturned and get the support of the majority of Nigerians. One of the latest endorsements for the Buhari/Osinbajo reelection bid came from retired military officers in the country. With the former Head of State and President, Olusegun Obasanjo, opposing Buhari’s reelection, one would have thought that all the retired military soldiers would have bought the idea and stay away from Buhari. But that was not the case, as 71 retired military officers stormed the Presidential Villa last week Monday to endorse Buhari. The retired military officers included 1 Vice Admiral, 2 Lt-Generals, 15 Major Generals, 2 Rear Admirals, 8 Air Vice-Marshals, 12 Brigadier-Generals, 3 Commodores, 9 Air Commodores, and 17 former military governors/administrators, among others. The most senior of the retired officers, former Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Jubril Ayinla, at the occasion, said future generations would acquit President Buhari “most creditably.” “On behalf of the generals here today, I congratulate you on the tremendous work done by this administration, and wish to state unequivocally that we are proud of you and fully behind you in the presidential elections next week. We pledge our full support and continued loyalty.” he stated. Also in the Council Chamber venue of the meeting, the leader of the delegation, Brigadier-General Buba Marwa (Rtd), said the retired top officers thought it right to visit the President, “to say that you have represented your constituency very well. You announced a simple three-point agenda upon assumption of office namely security; fighting corruption, and the economy. You have kept your words as an officer and a gentleman. “We the retired armed forces officers, representing 99.9% of our colleagues say that we are proud of you; proud to be associated with your administration; and proud to witness this era of Nigeria rising again under your able leadership. “We support you fully and totally in the presidential elections next week and will do whatever we can within the law to contribute to your emergence as the victor in the election in order to take Nigeria to the next level,” he added. Marwa, after the meeting told State House correspondents that the endorsement for Buhari was based on the fulfillment of all his promises. He said: “As an officer and a gentleman, his word is his bond. After winning the elections, he brought out simple three-point programme – security, economy and fighting corruption. He led the fight and is leading the fight by personal example that is the height of leadership. Do as as I do not as a say, he has demonstrated that. “On security, I have touched on the advances made the period before and when he took over from 2015 till date. I put the question, the bombings that use to go on in this FCT, Kaduna and so on, where is it today? “The herdsmen crisis up and about, the hues and cries, where is it today? Where is IPOB today? The Boko Haram are not flying their flags like they did before. They were in my local government for eight months, actually they even lived in my house believe it or not but they have been chased off and now they are just in the fringes of Lake Chad. Things are better. “You look at the infrastructure is it the same thing, things are happening everywhere, highways are coming up, there is no state of the federation that there is no work going on, the railways the same thing. “So the long and short of it is that when you demonstrate what you say you will do and you are from our own constituency, we must stand up and be counted. “And therefore, the retired military officers today with former military governors, retired military officers from the ranks of brigadier general and their equivalents from other officers are here today, to tell him and to tell Nigerians that we are fully behind him in the elections next week and we will do whatever we can within the law to see that he is victorious in the elections.” he said. Maintaining that the endorsement was not out of fear, Marwa said, “Absolutely not. Every human being is political, we maybe non-partisan, we all want a good country for ourselves, our children and grandchildren and even for those yet unborn. “Look at the drug abuse thing for instance, he was the first president that launched a war against drug abuse in Nigeria through the committees, one of which I chair. “Unless you have compassion, you will overlook the matter of drugs and think that these are the dregs of the society. But he did. “Look at the Biafran Policemen who left the Nigerian police before the war, he remembered them. Airways workers, he remembered them. “His first concern when he took over was not the huge projects but for the civil and public servants to be paid. He even said it on one occasion and I heard it clearly, that he wonders how governors sleep with workers not paid and suffering. And now, the national minimum wage, he has approved it. “And you can go down to what he is doing for the masses. Have you seen the Vice President in Nigeria enter the markets to give succour of N5,000, N10,000, we have never seen until this time. “So, it is because he has performed. If he did not perform you will not see us here,” he said. He went on “Some of us our politicians already and belong to political parties. I am already in the APC and I’m fact chairman of the central working committee of the Women and Youth Presidential Campaign Team. “But people like Admiral Ayinla who said they are not partisan but they know what is good and so they will work for his success.” Advising Nigerians ahead of the elections, Marwa said, “Peaceful elections is what we call for. Allow process to run, allow the people to elect their own leader. There should be no ‘mago mago’ and all those fake things that use to happen. Happily, we have the machine that will make sure that nobody who does not vote matters than somebody that voted. “We ask Nigerians to come out in their numbers and vote for your candidate peacefully and after that protect your vote by remaining present until it is counted and announced before you go home,” he stated. While Nigeria survived the break-up doomsday prophecy for the country in the period leading to the 2015 general elections, the nation in the next few days should use the 2019 general elections as a springboard to rise to greater heights in all ramifications. As the elections start with the Presidential one in the next four days, it is expected that all the political parties, candidates and their supporters would respect the rules and regulations guiding the elections in the country. More than ever before, the candidates should now show respect for the peace accord they signed few weeks back by holding peace and security of the nation paramount. As power belongs to God, they should not cause or encourage  mayhem in the country by their actions or in actions.