Another Nigerian-British born boxer, McKennedy Ariwa, has expressed determination to follow the footsteps of World Heavyweight Champion, Anthony Joshua, in this snapshot interview… What can we know about you? I was born and raised in London, Britain. My father and mother are Nigerians who were born and raised in Lagos. How did your parents react when you decided to take boxing as a career? My family is very supportive, from my parents to grandparents, uncles and aunts. Everyone is very supportive. There were no objections. How did you go into boxing? I was doing kick boxing first and I liked it, that’s how I got into boxing. What are the challenges in boxing? After every fight, you need to get better and improve your errors. Can you say boxing is developing in Nigeria when compared with Britain? It’s making progress in Britain; I’m not too sure about the boxing in Nigeria, because I have never been there. I hope to visit there soon. What’s your relationship with Anthony Joshua? I used to train in his gym, not anymore. Now, I box for a different gym. What kind of person is Anthony Joshua? I feel he’s a very good; a strong fighter that trains very hard. I don’t want to be like him, because he is his own person. I want to be me. I do respect him and the amount of hard work he does during training, but I am on my own path to becoming a great boxer. So, I’m looking forward to seeing how that goes. What do you want to achieve in boxing? Of course, I want to win the world titles like Anthony Joshua. Is boxing something you’d always wanted to do? While growing up, I never really focused on one thing; so I always wanted to do many different things but I fell in love with boxing and that’s my focus for now. Who are your mentors in boxing? I love Anthony Joshua, Mayweather and my coach, Vernan; he used to be a professional boxer. Where do you see yourself in two years’ time? I see myself becoming a professional in the ring. How did you feel about the recent fight you won? It was a good one, I must say. I want to thank God for the strength and encouragement from my family, I promise not to let down my fans down.