The President of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Mr. Rowland Abonta, has decried the ratio of registered Estate Surveyors & Valuers which he said stood at about 6,000 nationwide compared to the total population of about 190 million people. He pointed out that  the number is  insufficient  and have the capacity to encourage quackery. He spoke  at the 25th John Wood Ekpenyong Memorial Lecture and 2019 Fellows’ Induction, organised by the institution in Abuja. He also harped on the need for political office holders to avail themselves the services of his members to save themselves from embarrassment in connection with Asset declaration. He added that only recently the Chief Justice of the Federation, Mr. Walter Onnoghen was involved in a controversy over lack of declaration of his assets with the Code of Conduct  Bureau. He argued that the Chief Justice of the Federation  may not  have faced the challenge he is currently facing if he had employed the services of Estate Valuers. At the event, the Institution inducted 28 new Fellows who pledged allegiance to the uplifting and ideals among other things, at a ceremony which brought together people from across the country. The NIESV boss regretted a situation where government claims to be fighting corruption and still gives non professionals powers  to value assets and put any figure they like, stressing that such practice is wrong. He said: “Like the Code of Conduct Bureau, we know what asset declaration is doing to our country today, especially, with the relationship between the Judiciary and the Executive arms of government. If only those in authority have allowed Estate Surveyors to play their statutory roles when it comes to assets declaration, maybe the Chief Justice of Nigeria, will not be facing the challenge he is facing today. This is because an Estate Valuer will be interested in listing all his assets at once and will also be interested in verifying and confirming those assets. But a situation where the government is fighting corruption and the government gives power to those declaring their assets to put figures they like is a big disservice to the nation”, he added. Past president of the institution , Chief Emeka Onurah,  while delivering a lecture titled The Estate Surveyor and Valuers in Peril: Challenges and Prospects,  accused government at all levels of violating the laws establishing Estate Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria otherwise known as ESVARBON laws. Onuorah charged the board to engage government in order to ensure that the ESVARBON laws are obeyed by all, stressing that Federal Inland Revenue Services  (FIRS) alleged engagement of companies whose job are not to carry out valuations is in clear contravention of the law of the land. He emphasised the need to add more business contents in the courses offered in our tertiary institutions to equip them with competitive knowledge as well as good business background. He said: “We need to look at the content of these institutions. Perhaps, we need to borrow more from the American system than the British system. The British system teaches you how to be a good estate valuer but it does not teach you how to be a good business man. That is the distinction, so we need to have more business content in our courses in the higher institutions so that the new graduands that would come out will have very good knowledge of the profession as well as a good business background.”