Correspondent Musa Odoshimokhe examines the flexing of muscles between the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the recent rancorous rally in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital, and how to prevent violence at the governorship poll. The last may not have been heard about the disrupted presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State last week. Ogun State is one of the strongholds of the APC. Apart from being contiguous to Lagos, it has produced leading lights who are prominent stalwarts of the ruling party. The rally was meant to be an APC affair. But, members of the Allied Progressives Movement (APM) invaded the Moshood Abiola Stadium, venue of the campaign, to disrupt it. According to observers, what actually played out could be described as a brazen display of arrogance by APM leaders,  who started beating the drum of war, to the constenation of President Muhammadu Buhari nd other APC leaders. The APM supporters who invaded the rally are supporters of Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who is the APC senatorial candidate for Ogun Central District. The governor is backing the APM candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, for governor. The event was slated for 2pm. But, APM chieftains had perfected plans to steal the show, despite their diminishing profile. On arrival at the stadium, Amosun was stunned to see supporters of his arch-rival and APC governorship candidate, Prince Dapo Abiodun, neatly clad in different customised attires, bearing the inscription of”Dapo Abiodun for Governor.” Abiodun and other APC leaders had successfully mobilised their supporters. They were waving brooms and banners, dancing and rejoicing. APC chieftans alleged that Amosun directed his aides and security agents to remove Abiodun’s campaign materials from within and outside the stadium. The  governor was also said to be displeased with the protocol arrangement, which was hijacked by security agents who had accompanied the president. The security agents from Abuja arrested three hoodlums, who were brandishing dangerous weapons, including axe, short knife and assorted charms, during the screening at the gate. Soldiers, policemen, men of the Department of State Service (DSD) and the  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) tried to restore order. An aggrieved Amosun complained that hi supporters were prevented from entering the stadium. Chiding security men, he said: “Don’t create confusions in Ogun State. I am talking to you, the security operatives, especially the DSS and Police operatives from Abuja. Please, stop using teargas on our people. Please, don’t do it again. “President Muhammadu Buhari is safe here in Ogun State. He is our father. To all of you here, we are going to open the gates to allow our people to come on. We don’t want stampede. So, security operates, I am putting you on notice. Please, help us to help you. I am begging you to stop it. Our people are suffering outside there.” Following the directive that security men should allow his supporters to ender the stadium, APM supporters invaded the main bowl. After entering the stadium, hell was let loose. APM supporters supporters started  chasing out Abiodun’s supporters with sticks.  Many of them sustained injuries .  Although APC leaders complained to the Ogun State Commissioner of Police , Alhaji Ahmed Iliyasu, his deputies, it was difficult to restore order. No sooner had the street urchins received the APM governorship candidate’s flag than they begun to harrass Abiodun’s supporters. The main bowl became an APM rally, with the opposition members preventing APC supporters from welcoming President Buhari, APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Aremo Olusegun Osoba and other leaders. Also, the musicians on stage started singing inciting songs to mock Abiodun and his supporters. The master of ceremony was Mrs Abike Dabiri. The opening prayers were said by  an APM chieftain,  Chief Sarafa Isola, former Minister for Mines, and Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, a supporter of the governor. Although the APC chairman, Chief Yemi Sunmonu, was at the rally, the suspended chairman, Chief Derin Adebiyi, delivered the goodwill message. Adebiyi declined to recognise the presence of Abiodun, Oshiomhole, former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola, Aremo   Olusegun Osoba, and Chief Kemi Nelson. But, he recognised Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), Asiwaju Tinubu, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, Chief Akande,  Governors  Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos), Mr Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Dr Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), and Senator Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo State). Amosun did not campaign for Abiodun. He urged the people to vote for President Buhari. He said: “We are going to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the interest of our love for him and our respect for him. Looters are out again to loot our treasury. They are liars. We are going to fight and defeat them with our PVCs. “This is the home of President Muhammadu Buhari. But, other elections will be resolved when it is time.” However, Aregbesola cautioned the APM members and urged APC members to be wary of hypocrites. He said: “We are here for peace. Those carrying posters and banners of another party other than the APC are hypocrites. “On saturday, March 2, which is a date for both the governorship and State House of Assembly, let us vote for the broom, which is the symbol of the APC.” But, the admonition did not go down well with the Ogun governor.  He frowned at Aregbesola’s interference in Ogun’s affairs. There was commotion when Oshiomhole wanted too address thedivided crowd and present the APC flag to Abiodun. As he took the the microphone, it was switched off from the “mixer machine”and he couldn’t talk. A section of the crowd started chanting  “Ole” (thief). Oshiomhole skipped his speech and handed the flag to Abiodun. It was at that stage that one of the APM members hurled an empty plastic at the podium, where the ppresident and other party leaders were standing. While calming frayed nerves, Amosun urged APM supporters to desisit from doing anything that will embarrass the president. He said in Yoruba: “We have told them that they (APC chieftains in Ogun) are not up to five percent. “Ti a ba nberu aja, alaja ro wipe oun l’anberu” (if we are afraid of a dog it doesn’t mean we are afraid of its owner).Let us swallow our pride Why disgracing me here? Please, don’t disgrace us here.” Also, the Director-General (DG), Buhari/Osinbajo Presidential Campaign Organisation,  Amaechi, said the APC leders were in Abeokuta to campaign for the re-election of President Buhari and the election of Abiodun as the next governor of Ogun State. He said: “We are all here completely for the APC elections. The event of today is completely for all our candidates from the presidential, governorship, National Assembly and to the House of Assembly. “It is important to vote for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and the election of Abiodun as governor. Let us not make any mistake. Otherwise, we (APC) will lose it.”