The federal government has restated its commitment to realisation of excellent Information Communication Technology (ICT) education in schools. Speaking at the commissioning of Skool Media Technology Experience Centre at Queens College, Yaba, Federal Government College ljaniki and Federal Science and Technical College (F.S.T.C) Yaba, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr Sonny Echono, said ICT delivery in schools would redefine the teaching processes and give students leverage to compete with their counterparts in other countries. He stated Skool Media is an education technology infrastructure company focused on revamping the educational sector by redefining the learning processes and experiences in schools and communities using technology. Echono, who was represented by Director, ICT, Ministry of Education, Abubakar Isah, said the centres would facilitate students’ technology experience, promote design thinking and enhance project based learning in schools. He commended Skool Media, adding government believes in such Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects to develop the country. Project Director, Skool Media, Mr. Moses Imayi, said the firm had invested about N500 million towards driving the growth of digital educational sector across the six geo-political zones. “Our expectation is to invest in the future of the Nigerian child and equip them to be at par with students across the world. “Quality education has been a major backbone of our strategic plan as we continue to be a role model for the adoption of technology in education in Africa and the opportunity of being a reference point for all edu-tech stakeholders in Nigeria,” he said. He noted that the purpose of the centre was to make learning fun and seamless whilst engaging technology and innovation to drive productivity. According to him, skills to be acquired at the tech centres included: coding, Google digital skills, hackathons, information retrieval-information literacy using search engines, creative writing and public speaking workshops. Principal, Queens College, Mrs. Yakubu Oyinloye, said the tech centres would enhance the value and performance of students while equipping them with various skills to boost their competitiveness in a dynamic environment if modern learning.