Over 100 aggrieved vehicle owners in the fleet of Transport Company of Anambra State (TRACAS) on Wednesday protested alleged unfair treatment by management of the company. The protesters accused some top management of the company of displacing them from loading with a fleet of vehicles they introduced. Leader of the protesters, Kingsley Uche, alleged that they were compelled to pay N29, 000 for installation of speed limiting devices which, he said, was not installed in any vehicle since two years. “Recently, the managing director said she was bringing about 70 vehicles and we told her that already, we are finding it difficult to make two trips in a month and that adding more vehicles will put us out of job. “Eventually, she brought some vehicles and gave them preference that they load every day and those of us who have been sustaining the company no longer have the chance to carry passengers. According to Uche, some of the drivers could no longer provide for their families, yet they were expected to meet the terms of agreement. They carried placards with varying inscriptions including, “We tired of poor management in TRACAS”, “Gov. Willie Obiano help, “TRACAS was formed to alleviate poverty and not to increase poverty” among others. Reacting, the company’s General Manager, Dr. Ifeoma Madukasi said the protest was unjustifiable and unnecessary. She described the aggrieved drivers as ingrates and cog in the wheel to the development of the company. Madukasi further regretted that all the innovations, including the Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement she introduced since last year she came on board had been resisted by the drivers, “If the truth be told, the recalcitrant LV drivers/owners have to leave TRACAS if the company must move forward, hence the PPP arrangement that will enable the company own its vehicles after about 18months,” she added. Earlier, the Secretary to Anambra Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, while receiving the protest letter from the group, described the transport sector as critical to the state’s economy, assuring that their grievances would be addressed. 