Oyo State Government has endorsed the sack of a son of a former governor of the State as the Executive Chairman, Ogbomoso North Local Government, Mr Olamijuwon Alao-Akala. In his place, the former Vice Chairman Mr Abas Bello has been announced and sworn in an acting capacity to chair the Council. The decision follows the change of party loyalty on the part of the sacked council boss from the ruling All Progressive Party (APC) to the Action Democratic Party (ADP), the platform on which ex-governor Alao-Akala is contesting the governorship seat. The state government made the announcement as well as the swearing in of the Acting Council boss through the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Mr Bimbo Kolade at the Agodi Secretary, Ibadan on Wednesday. The sacked Council boss would be recalled was elected on May 12 on the platform of APC but alongside some of his councillors defected to the ADP to support his father’s ambition. While speaking at the swearing-in of the Acting Council boss, the Commissioner noted that the ministry had on February 18 received official correspondences from the Council’s legislative body announcing the suspension of Mr Alao-Akala. The commissioner said that the councillors had suspended the chairman for alleged “misconduct and abuse of office”. He added that apart from Alao-Akala who was suspended, four other Councillors from the same local government were also suspended, giving their names as, Mr Olawunmi Olutayo, Adeniyi Adekunle , Oladele Sunday and Alagbe Ayodunmade and another four from the neighbouring Ogbomoso Central Local Council Development Area (LCDA). He said, “Other Councillors that were suspended from Ogbomoso Central Local Council Development Area (LCDA) are Akande Ranti, Olabode Abiola, Salaudeen Muhammed and Muhammed Yusuf.” He presented a letter of authority to Bello, the Acting Chairman, urging him to discharge his duties according to the rules. In his response, Bello said he would not do anything to jeopardize the confidence reposed in him, expressing confidence in ensuring the success of APC in the next election.