The Delta State chapter of Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), has alleged that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officers involved in the conspiracy to undermine the election. NDCP had before the rescheduled general elections, accused heads of administration, general admin and procurement (GAP), and Information Communication Technology (ICT) respectively, of conspiring with the ruling party in the state to sabotage the commission’s efforts for a credible election. In a letter of February 18, by Chief Udiyobo Nonye Dafe, NDCP protested to INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, Delta State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Dr. Cyril Omoregbe, and the National Security Adviser, Major General Muhammad Babagana Mongunu. The party alleged that the three  have continued to display sympathy for the People Democratic Party (PDP), adding that it would affect the outcome of the rescheduled elections in the state. Part of the letter read: “As one of the accredited agents for the election exercise in Delta State, available evidence I stumbled on was that instructions by Head of Admin, Mr. Enabor, to Electoral Officers (Eos) in the local government councils was to populate the presiding and assistant presiding officers list with PDP sponsored agents. “I am bringing this evil machinations of your subordinates, to enable you take prompt and drastic measures that will enable you bequeath a free, fair and credible election that Nigerians are waiting to behold.” According to Dafe, who is also the leader of Delta Central Senatorial District chapter of the party: “Both the heads of GAP, Mr. Tony Ugboneh and ICT, Mr. Chidi, respectively, beside being PDP sympathizers, are very critical of policy initiatives of President Muhammadu Buhari, which they often expressed unconsciously in public fora. And if the trio, who recruited the RACHTEC personnel on the dictates of PDP, are not rescued before the rescheduled elections, the exercise in Delta State will end up being compromised. “Therefore, the right thing to do is disqualify them and set aside the fraudulent architecture set they set up to secure victory for PDP, thereby denying electorates the right to have their votes count. We also demand that a new recruitment should be ordered under the watchful eyes of intelligence personnel.” He added: “The commission came up with a well thought policy of recruiting collation and returning officers, through a template that tends to insulate partisan persons from serving as election officials. Sadly, those eventually shortlisted for the jobs were not from the University of Benin, the purported institution approved for this category of personnel, but from a list of PDP supporters generated and handed over for posting, to create an undue electoral advantage for PDP against other parties.” Dafe stressed that investigation also revealed that substitutes “recruited for the collation/returning jobs were surreptitiously trained on February 12 at Beniza Hotel, Asaba. The same template was used in. populating the list of supervisory presiding officials with PDP card carrying members, who did not satisfy the laid down guidelines by INEC. Efforts to get reaction of the Delta State INEC officials was not successful as the accused persons could not ‘s reactions to the disturbing development is yet to sail through as at press time. 