A 2017 report put Shefiu Adekunle Alao as the seventh richest Fuji musician alive, but as I sat for about four hours under the sound of his voice this week, I saw a man whose wealth traverses monetary value. Alao, popularly called ‘Omo-Oko’ (Village Boy) came across as a studious, thoughtful, thought-provoking and creative engineer of lyrics which he combines fluidly with sounds that are devoid of the exuberances associated with some of today’s local music. Obviously, he is not the run of the mill musician; neither is he a new kid on the block. Schooling in Abeokuta, Ogun State back in the day, where I used to listen to some of his earlier songs, the pristine mien is still fresh in my mind. And, considering what usually happen to ambitious people with the passing of time, my recent live performance encounter with the musician was a testimony of a man with consistent musical ideology. The Shefiu Alao whose performance I witnessed Wednesday night in Ijebu-Ode combines the attributes of a cultural promoter, social educator, thought-provoker and modest entertainer, and this is the reason four university dons – Professor Olu Obafemi of the Department of Theatre and Performing Arts, University of Ilorin; Professor Shola Fosudo of the Department of Theatre and Music, Lagos State University; Professor Rasaki Ojo-Bakare of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti; and Professor Tunji Azeez of the Department of Theatre and Music, Lagos State University – were motivated, not only to stay awake listening to his song, not only to be moved to dance to it, but also doling out cash to appreciate good music. Even Professor Ayo Akinwale of the Department of Theatre and Performing Arts, University of Ilorin, who did not move to the stage was doing it seated. And as he sang their praise, Alao wondered too that professors could dance and ‘spray’ a musician. “I have never seen a professor dance like this… I have never seen a professor dance this well…” he sang and sang and sang into the night. But these men are not just professors; they are teachers of the art, culture promoters and men with a great sense of art appreciation. And how best could they live this appreciation than to dance and ‘spray’, or as the case was, ‘stick’ their donations on the singer. Thus, irrespective of the questionable image some Fuji musicians may have given the genre, here was an image maker who makes you see that a good music and good musician is not defined by genre. The uniqueness of Alao’s music is such that he picks the flow like one doing foundation for a building, lays the blocks, inserts rods where necessary, casts the concrete mix where applicable, and takes it to the roof in a befitting climax. When he mounted the stage, it was to pay homage to legends of music from the pre-Fuji era, calling such names as Ayinla Omowura, Dauda Epo-Akara, Kayode Fashola, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, etcetera. Next, it was some thought-provoking tales about life garnished in idioms and proverbs. He then dwelled on the power of music and films, singing around the subject of an earlier empowerment workshop facilitated by the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), the after-party for which he was invited to perform. Alao did not leave the youth empowerment talks to the dons alone, as he too had something to add, thereby taking the seminar further, albeit through entertainment. He had a word for parents on the importance of education. No doubt, his words sank in the people’s minds as it did mine. It was at this point that he moved to eulogizing the professors, not just for their feat in the academia, but also for the knowledge they impacted on the youths in Ijebu-Ode Central Federal Constituency, who were part of the empowerment workshop. Alao, who was not physically present at the seminar, had facilitated a video recording which he played back ahead of his performance. And with a musical rapporteur he rendered off the seminar, his show was mind blowing. Professor Obafemi who spoke on ‘Why Film is Key Aspect of Development’ advocated infrastructural and resource development of the industry, urging government to take seriously, its economic diversification agenda by enabling the creative industry to the degree of providing 30 percent of the country’s workforce. This was just as Professor Ojo-Bakare while speaking on ‘Exploring Dance and Music for a More Effective Film Industry in Nigeria,’ spoke on the need to use more kinetic energy to generate interest of film lovers, averring that verbal narratives, being a cultural attitude, is the problem of most Nigerian films. He decried situations whereby dialogues override actions, just as soundtracks also break suspense, adding that dance and music, could be injected to break unnecessary dialogues in our movies, using the Bollywood example. Professor Ayo Akinwale whose talk at the event was more of motivation spoke on: ‘Film and My Life.’ The veteran artiste who disclosed that his children and cousins are also doing well in the film industry, noted that he had maintained passion and self-discipline on the job. He urged beneficiaries of the NFVCB grant to utilize the fund judiciously. The seminar which had Professor Tunji Azeez as Master of Ceremonies was also attended by Mr. Adewale Elesho and president of Theatre Art and Movie Producers Association of Nigeria (TAMPAN), Mr. Bolaji Amusan, aka Mr. Latin as rapporteur. Mr. Latin, who was full of praise for the Executive Director of NFVCB, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas, wanted the seminar extended to film associations, confessing that he learnt new things from the session, and that he was not ashamed to admit this despite his years of experience in the film industry. The summary of this session was what Shefiu Alao made the subject of his musical entertainment that night without losing the serious substance of the event. Lest I forget, Alao goes by another moniker: ‘Agbara Orin’ (Power of music)… I could not agree less.