Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Oyo State Chief Folaranmi Owolabi has defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Owolabi said he left ADP due to Adebayo Alao-Akala’s overbearing influence, as well as the neglect of the state chapter by the national secretariat, which made them vulnerable. He said he does not regret leaving ADP barely 24 hours to the election. The party chieftain vowed to mobilise other defectors to campaign for the victory of APC candidates. He said: “Up till yesterday (Wednesday), I was the Oyo State chairman of the ADP, but by the grace of God, I and more than 10,000 members have dumped the ADP for APC. “We were the foundation members of ADP; we nurtured the party to become a force, which was what attracted the likes of Otunba Alao-Akala to come and join us. But, sadly till yesterday, the national secretariat has never bothered about the welfare and upkeep of the state chapter; no moral or financial support so far. “We have been using our goodwill to nurture the party, but immediately Otunba Alao- Akala joined us last October, he scattered everything. He disrupted the structure he met on ground and he cleverly snatched the party from us. “Some of our members who obtained forms to contest the state and national assembly elections were shocked when he came and used his overbearing influence to snatch the tickets for his cronies contrary to his earlier promises. Of the 32 House of Assembly tickets, the former chairman said the party decided to concede 21 to Alao-Akala in deference to his status, while foundation members and Social Democratic Party members who joined were given seven and four tickets respectively. “Similarly, he claimed that 10 of 14 House of Representative tickets were given to the ex-governor on arrival at the party but Alao-Akala went to the party’s headquarters in Abuja and substituted 95 per cent of the names.” APC chairman Akin Oke, who was represented by his deputy Lekan Adeyemo, received the defectors at the party secretariat in Oke-Ado, Ibadan. Adeyemo urged the defectors to go to their wards and spread the gospel of better governance, which the ruling party represents. 