SIR: Last week Tuesday,the National security adviser to the President, General Mohammed Mungono (rtd) hosted a security meeting with the 36 states governors. The meeting was centred on the security for the forthcoming general elections. He briefed the meeting of plans by some unnamed groups to unleash violence in the forthcoming election. Since the inception of democratic rule, the country is yet to get her elections right. Election in Nigeria is a do or die affair (apology to Olusegun Obasanjo). Our politicians have failed to play the game according to the rules. Notwithstanding the peace accord signed by the candidates contesting for different positions, foul and uncouth languages are still being used during campaign rallies. These have become a matter of great concern. Why do politicians fail to embrace issue-based campaigns as practiced in most democratic countries? Must a candidate attack his opponent before he sells his programmes to the electorates? Now that the national security adviser has raised an alarm of likely political violence in the forthcoming elections,what is the way out? If we could recall in the build up to 2015 general elections,there were rumours or speculations that the country would boil. It took the Abdulsalam Abubakar’s peace and reconciliation committee’s efforts to prevail on the contenders to accept the outcome or result of the election. In the end, the former president, Goodluck Jonathan, conceded defeat and congratulated Buhari who won the election. That single and sincere action exhibited by Jonathan nipped in the bud, the fear of violence that might have trailed the outcome. Our politicians should be blamed for the security breach before, during and after elections. They have taken elections as the last battle of their survival. They hire jobless youths to foment trouble during elections. To win election by hook or crook is their first agenda. These desperate and selfish politicians can do anything to scuttle the polls so long the result will not go in their favour. Security of lives and properties is the primary responsibility of any government. The ambition of few individuals should not be allowed to override the security and welfare of Nigerians. Our security agencies should work round the clock to man violence-prone areas; identify the culprits and their sponsors. What Nigerians needs is another cycle of peaceful elections.  Pambegua,Kaduna State.