The years of 2016 to 2018 were for most communities in Delta State the years hoodlums, kidnappers and armed robbers held sway. The criminals, like colossus, bestrode communities from the oil city of Warri to Kwale, through Ughelli, Kokori, Eku, Sapele, Mosoga, Jesse and Orherokpe towns. They were the lords of the underground, not necessarily of the dark, because they choose their times and their places of operations. Residents of these communities and those passing through usually said their prayers and kept saying them until they are out of these areas. Traders closed their shops and absconded from the market places as early as 5pm, while shop owners on the streets locked-up before nightfall to avoid falling victims to the men who ruled their lives. The tail end of 2018 and the early weeks of 2019 has brought some respite and calm to the trouble areas of the state. Hoodlums that hitherto ran riot over the areas are beating retreat with their tails behind their legs and records arrests and breakthroughs are being made. Emeka Ode was one of the alleged lords of the underground whose days of rampage have been cut short. Like members of his gangs, in his hay days he was a ruler over the affairs of victims. Their tools were sophisticated weapons ranging from pump-action rifles, beretta pistols, locally made pistols, shotguns and AK47 rifles. Ode was quoted by security sources as saying that they had no respect for human lives, and so did everything possible to snatch their victims and collect their ransoms. Their mercilessness and disdain for the elderly are perplexing as was their lack of empathy for babies and children. The ages of these public enemies ranged from 18 to 22 years; they are youths that are mostly always on substances and hard, misused drugs from codeine to tramadol, SK (skunk) cocaine and any other things that give them Dutch courage and deaden their human feelings and sense of sympathy. The victims of these reigns of terror are without ethnic, tribal or religious considerations. They were from all over the country, and even beyond. Women are yanked from the arms of their husbands; children detached, forcefully, from their mothers – even those with their mouths attached to their mothers’ nipple are not spared. Some are never seen, even after handsome ransoms are paid. Some of the victims are raped and traumatised, so much so that years after, the scar remains physically and emotionally burnished into their skins and psyches. Respite has come for several months now, as the activities of this syndicate and their signatures of violence and impunity have ebbed and become blurry. Normalcy is gradually returning to communities, where residents hitherto slept with both eyes open. “You could never be careful enough,” a resident of Jeddo community in Okpe Local Government Area told our reporter. The people of these parts are picking back the pieces of their lives, as tranquility gradually returns to lands where the hoodlums are being chased away by operatives of the anti-kidnapping committee, a sub-committee of Peace and Security of Delta State House of Assembly, who work closely with other security agencies. In the state capital, Asaba for instance, kidnapping is becoming a forgotten occurrence as the last attempt to kidnap a female politician was foiled by a crack team from the Anti-kidnapping committee. Acting on a tip-off some of the leaders of the kidnapping syndicate and vandals were swooped-on by a crack team from the surveillance squad of the Anti-kidnapping committee led by Austin Opubor, Mabiaku Omassan and Abraham Obarume. Members of Anti-kidnapping went to the various hideouts of the hoodlusm, where they were arrested with mobile phones of the victims and other valuables. Giving details of the arrest of some of the suspects, Opubor said, “Immediately we got report of any kidnap, we mobilised our personnel to the field because we believe that the police cannot achieve it all alone without the support of other stakeholders.” “Making a major breakthrough in apprehending some of the suspects so far was quite tasking,” he said, adding that some suspected kidnappers have been handed over to the Delta State Police Command, Asaba for further interrogation. He disclosed that several members of the ‘terrorist squads’ are cooling their heels in police custody. They include John Amadi, Paul Oweh, Chinedu Osho and Okoro Efe. Opubor, whom he claimed have made confessional statements confirming their roles in various kidnapping in the state as well as helping to curtail those who are still at large. Opubor attributed the feats recorded by the committee thus far to regular policing of the cities, especially by the anti-kidnapping committee operating within and around Asaba, stressing that their regular patrol of all the streets and arrest of suspect was giving the criminals much cause for rethink and change of heart about their nefarious tendency. “Surveillance of known black spots has also helped in nipping the activities of these criminals in the bud,” he said. Meanwhile, the breakthrough in the fight against crime is eliciting commendations from relieved members of the public. Mr. John Ogbemi, a lawyer and resident of Kokori, disclosed that he and other residents of the town had been living in fear for years.  ”We have witnessed several years of kidnapping both at nights and broad day light”. “They (kidnappers) have inflicted pains, sorrow, agony and tears on residents.  But recently, statistics in the community have shown that record of kidnapping and vandalisation of oil facilities has changed.  Social life, particularly night activities, has returned to the community.” Ogbemi is not alone in appreciating the works of the committee. Mrs. Rosemary Akpofure said, “I could recall several years of insecurity in Kokori – they were years of horror and pain.  My husband Akpofure Innocent was kidnapped twice within eight months in Kokori. It was a nightmare staying in the community. “ While describing the constant patrol and crime-fighting techniques of men of the surveillance and anti-kidnapping committee in the community as “quite recommendable”, she appealed to communities and their members to continue to support the committee to achieve greater peace. Growing confidence in the Anti-kidnapping committee is seen in the fact that more people are giving vital information to the committee to help in curbing crime.  Also, the use of informants to spy on suspected criminals and those living above their means are also yielding dividends. Recently, in Uvwie, a middle-aged man who gave information that led to the arrest of the leader of a kidnapping syndicate was rewarded with N2 million cash. The informant, who pleaded anonymity, said he became suspicious of the university graduate’s sudden wealth and flamboyant lifestyle.  ”My decision to alert the committee was prompted by my observation of the Delta State University graduate following his ostentatious life style without a defined job. “I felt I may not get the required protection of the police and decided to go to the committee”. Residents of Ethiope East Local Government particularly Abraka and Eku have every cause to heave a sigh of relief as a result of improved security situation. This is because residents are giving vital information that are leading to the arrest of suspect. The arrest of the gang leader, identified as Efe Omonemu, alleged to be a notorious criminal, followed tip-off from some of his friends.  Omonemu was arrested at a popular hotel in the university town of Abraka, following a tip-off. It was discovered that although he was rusticated from the Delta State University, Abraka several years ago for alleged cultism, he remained in the town living large without known source of income. His confession opened the way for other associates in and around the area to be caught in the net.. Also in Ughelli, a young girl (names withheld) gave information that led to the arrest of a three-man kidnapping syndicate and was rewarded with N1.5 million.  The hoodlums had already succeeded in their operation, but were apprehended at the point where they were sharing their loot in a local hotel in one of the communities. These strategies have yielded positive results in busy highways, including Warri-Sapele-Benin expressway, where the team busted a 4-man syndicate that specialized in terrorizing visitors using the strategic East/West highway. Law-abiding citizens of the area are hopeful that the improved security in their areas would continue through the election period and beyond. “No doubt, this team has done very well all over Delta state, but the most important thing is for them to maintain the momentum and not allow bad element to infiltrate and deflect them from the good work they are doing for the state.”