The South West Youth Forum (SWYF) has give it backing to the President Muhamadu Buhari -led administration in the country. The coordinator of the forum Biola Ottu-Coker said it the group resolved to support the President in view of its achievements in infrastructure and economic development. He said the problem of Nigeria is not the political parties, but individual players, who are found of changing parties. He said they do it for primordial and  selfish interest. Ottu-Coker added that corruption had eaten deep into the fabric of the nation so much so that if fail to kill corruption, corruption will kill the nation. “The achievements of the Buhari’s led administration in the country, for instance on the three points programmes on security, economy and fighting corruption are making great impact. “On infrastructural development; the   just completed Ibadan-Lagos –Abeokuta rail-line which past administration failed to accomplish for years is another emphatic demonstration of the Federal government’s commitment, to building a better Nigeria.” He said the realities is that Buhari had fulfilled his campaign promises given the exemplary leadership and  bold performance. “Mr. President is leading the corruption fight by example which is the height of leadership. The administration might have little shortcomings but interestingly such problems are being addressed   with renewed vigor and commitment. “We therefore, considered it needless to call for its sake,  we condemned in its totality the purported endorsement of Atiku, the Presidential candidate of the PDP by the Afenifere group. “We applaud the endorsement of Buhari by the Afenifere being anchored by Pa Ayo Fasanmi and acknowledged that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu remained a leading voice of Yoruba. “We commend his patriotism and forthright leadership that remains  unparallel in our present political history. We condemned the use of youth to perpetrate electoral malpractice or political violence by selfish politicians,” he said. 