An Environment expert in waste management, Mrs. Sade Nubi, has advised women to invest in waste management, to add value to their livelihood. Nubi, an engineer with Works and Physical Planning Department, University of Lagos (UNILAG), in an interview yesterday with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said: “I will gladly say yes; women can partake in waste management business. “It is not a business only for men; women can partake and even be more successful because it deserves attention. “The woman just needs to understand the business chain and decide what aspect she wants. Waste management business can involve collection and disposal, sorting, treatment (recycling). “At present we have women in the different sectors. Some women can afford a compactor work with the government under the PPP (Public Private Partnership) scheme. “They collect waste from households, commercial areas and then dispose of at designated dumpsites or landfill.” She said other women working on a smaller scale were mostly involved in recycling, which included recycling of Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET), plastics, paper, cans, nylons, glass, textile and bricks, wood and metals. The recycling involves sorting of waste at the dumpsite or buying already-sorted materials and then they bale and send to the bigger recycling companies, Nubi said. She said others add more value by washing, crushing and pelletising before selling to the companies that need them for raw materials. Nubi said more women were going into recycling. “We now find women who make great and beautiful furniture from old used tyres and other recyclable materials. “I can proudly say I have been in the waste management business for over seven years by managing the University of Lagos waste and generating revenue from recycling. At our sorting centre, we have a ratio of one male to two females. “Gender activities play an important role in environmental household waste management. The results also show that more women, rather than men, handle household waste.