According to a report, over 5.5 percent of the country’s population is suffering from diabetes. Diabetes is one of the major problems in the world that is connected with how food is broken down in the body. In some cases, it predisposes the sufferer to heart diseases. Medical practitioners in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have confirmed that diabetes is on the rise in Abuja, which they believe is due to lifestyle changes This was revealed when the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE) embarked on a humanitarian medical outreach to Karu Village in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Head of the medical team, Dr. Amina Kumalia said her team noticed an increase in cases of diabetes and hypertension in patients who came for the free medical outreach, adding that the team kept referring cases they could not handle due to their meager resources to hospitals close to the patients. She said, “What we notice usually is that patients are always hypertensive and diabetic. So far what we have been diagnosing on patients is usually hypertension followed by diabetes, peptic ulcer and then the most common is malaria which we know is very endemic here. “When we consult and see patients here, cases that we cannot manage here, we refer them to hospitals around their areas where they live. Presently, we see that cases of diabetes are on the increase in the country and this is due to our lifestyle changes, it has become very common because most foods we consume now are processed.” Director, External Affairs, Research and Consultancy for the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE), Garba Sani explained that the organisation had collaborated with the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to provide the needs of communities in the FCT. He added that the humanitarian effort that has been going on for three years goes into communities, check the things needed in some communities and try to meet their needs as best as they can. He said, “As a centre we provide a lot of social, charity and security activities in the country including provision of food, clothing, medical outreaches and many other supports. This here is just one of the things we do; we go around localities in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) providing such needs as the free medical services. “This is not our first outing; we have been doing this for the last two to three years and we have gone to a number of communities. In fact this is the second time we are returning to this community in a year and half. We pick communities anywhere around the FCT, we go in, assess the situation in terms of local facilities there, then we return with our medical team, volunteers and medications as well as other support services. “As a centre one of our objectives is to develop, improve and support the socio economic development of communities around us, we pick on areas that will make the most impact. Usually our target is to reach about 500-600 people but sometimes we have more patients than medications available or time to do it. “We are mot selective with who with partner with, we simply go around and develop collaborations with embassies, institutions, individuals and organizations with similar objectives of supporting our efforts. In future we hope to improve on the number of charitable activities and carter for more people.” One of the beneficiaries, Fatima Suleiman said, “I came so that they will check me and see what is wrong with me, so i will wait patiently for my turn and see the doctors. I will like to appreciate the organisers for this opportunity.”