Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Prince Dapo Abiodun has been on the campaign tour of Ijebu-Ode, Ijebu-East, Ijebu North, Remo North, Sagamu and Abeokuta local governments. At the rallies, he promised to bring a new lease of life to the Gateway State, if elected, Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU reports. HOW far can Prince Dapo Abiodun, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, can go? The election is less than two weeks. He has been up and doing at rallies. His campaign train has rolled into various wards across the three senatorial districts. Exciting confidence, he told a crowd of supporters in Abeokuta, the state capital, that he will succeed Governor Ibikunle Amosun. “I will bring a new lease of life to the people of Ogun State” he added. By and large, he poised to make a difference among the packs. He has admonished party faithful and supporters to be wary of the antics of those who are using the good name of the party to deceive them for their selfish ambition. Abiodun said some selfish political office seekers may have used the good name of the APC to get into positions  and performed below expectations. But, he said that should not be used as yardsticks to generalise that all politicians are birds of the same feathers. While addressing APC members and supporters at Isiwo, in Ijebu-Ode Local Government Area, as part of his ward-to-ward tour of  the 20 local governments, he promised that a new dawn is beckoning. He said: “Don’t be deceived by some politicians that have gone out on the prowl, knocking at your doors to bring out your Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) to take the numbers on them and then, offer you money. “We can’t be in the same party and we will be making the same mistakes. No! It is not possible. These sets of politicians are not real members of the APC. APC is the party. Broom is the symbol of our party. In all the elections, make sure you cast your votes for the APC. “By the grace of God and with your support, Buhari isn’t in another party but in the APC. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo is our son and we should use our votes to promote and make him great, so that he (Osinbajo) can know that his kinsmen are solidly behind him. “I want to use this occasion to reiterate my commitment to ensure that I bring my vast experience in the private sector to bear on governance, if I emerge as the governor of the state.” However, responding to the requests of the monarch of the ancient town, Oba Sikiru Salisu, and the Council of Baales, Abiodun promised to rehabilitate the 15 kilometre road stretching from Ijebu-Ode through Yemoji/Odo-Ladenusi/Oko-Ako/Odo-Lofa and to Isiwo; the construct a culvert linking the various communities; renovate of both public primary and secondary schools; energise the transformers and provide pipe-borne water. Former APC Ogun East Senatorial district chairman, Alhaji Folorusho Elias, said Abiodun as part of his campaign tour would afford him an on-the-spot assessment of the deplorable road conditions and other amenities that are begging for attention in the communities. He said the monarch, his subjects and the entire inhabitants have decided to speak with one voice and cast their votes for Abiodun. He added: “When you get into office help us reconstruct our road from Yemoji through Agboju. Also, help us reconstruct the only culvert linking our various communities. Our unemployed youths are there and we want your government to empower them. We have untapped large expanse of land, if you will need them to set up businesses for our youths.” Party stalwarts at the rally include the Director-General (DG), Dapo Abiodun Campaign Organisation (DACO), Prince Segun Adesegun, Sen. Gbenga Obadara, former Ogun SUBEB Chairman, Mr. Mufutau Ajibola, Chief Bode Mustapha, former Ogun Sports Commissioner, Mr. Afolabi Afuape, Ganiyu Hamzat, Ijebu-Ode House of Assembly candidate, Aare Kemi Oduwole and Pa Olu Agemo. Abiodun took his campaign train to Remo North Local Government Area and made the palace of Alaye Ode-Remo his first port of call. While being received by the Alaye, Oba Amindu Osho, Abiodun reiterated his commitment to give priority attention to the development of rural communities through the reconstruction of new roads to link urban centres. He said although it is important to have flyovers in Abeokuta, rural roads should not be abandoned, just because of the development of the state capital. The APC candidate said: “Fixing rural roads would ease movement of farm produce and dwellers from one location to another. Also, rural roads connecting adjoining states will be given priority attentions. “It is also evident that, many communities in the state are without pipe-borne water and regular power supply. We will look into these challenges and attend to them. “It is common knowledge that, while some governors, having spent eight years in office, have got nothing to show as the electoral promises. But I want to assure you that ours will be different. We will make good our electoral promises.” To Abiodun, the election is for the greater growth and development of the state. He urged the people to cast their votes en-mass for the APC. He said: “We are not leaving the APC for another party, because we know it is a great party that can bring dividends of democracy to the people. “We are going to return power to the local governments, so that council chairmen can perform their statutory duties effectively. Also, we will build multi-healthcare centres in each local government area. “Those using the portraits of President Buhari as their presidential candidate are not honest to themselves, because they do not belong to our party, the APC.” Oba Osho said with unfolding events that are in favour of Abiodun, the people are ready to deploy all the resources at their disposal to ensure that they give their support to the APC governorship candidate in the forthcoming general elections. The monarch said: “Dapo Abiodun is a glorious son of Remoland and he needs our prayers and we will support them. “He is the governorship candidate we want to see at the Okemosan governor’s office, come May 29, 2019. I have no doubt in my mind, that Abiodun will win. Because having Engineer Segun Adesegun, a former Deputy Governor, a tested and trusted person, as his Director-General (DG) Campaign Organisation, victory is sure for Dapo Abiodun.” Abiodun promised to develop on education and assured parents and students in Ogun state-owned tertiary institutions that there will be no strike. He gave this promise, while addressing students of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, who accosted him at Ifelodun Constituency, in Ijebu North Local Government Area (Ogun East). He said: “I want to assure you of my utmost priority for an improvement in the education standard in the State. I would maintain a frequent connection with the students in a bid to listen to their plights through regular town hall meetings, at least, twice every year of my administration. “I sincerely appreciate the ways and manners at which you have articulated your points and I am assuring you, that as a son of teachers, I will ensure that we formulate a policy that will address all the lingering crises in the education sector.” The state-owned tertiary institutions have been enmeshed in crises due to non-payment of salaries and other welfare packages. The APC candidate stressed that education remains the greatest legacy any government could give his people. The President of the Students Union Government (SUG) of the institution, Comrade Akinbo Afolabi Olamide (Kempes), urged Abiodun to formulate a student-friendly educational policy when he emerged. He said: “Our in-coming governor, we have been looking for this opportunity to interact with you and see what you have for us before we declare our support for you. “The educational standard of this State has deteriorated and the school fees are becoming unbearable to the common man. I want to appeal to you, to address this menace as soon as you get into office, because I believe you are the next governor of Ogun State. “We, students, always suffer alot when government refuses to give a listening ear to students”, said Akinbo. Abiodun assured the residents of the host community (Ago-Iwoye) of speedy completion of the abandoned Ilishan-Ago-Iwoye road upon assumption of office as governor. He said the abandoned road would be rehabilitated as soon as he gets into office. He gave the assurance, while addressing Baales, Market women and men, artisans, members of Community Development Committee (CDC), including Arewa and Igbo communities, in the Ifelodun constituency of Ago-Iwoye. He said: “I am in this race to bring a new dawn to the state. I am leaving my comfort zone (the private sector) to make my own impact. I am not someone who will promise and fail you. I will ensure that even development is given to every part of Ogun state.” Also, the campaign team paid a royal visit to the Ebumawe of Ago-Iwoye, Oba Abdul Rasaq Adenugba. However, while on the campaign tour of Ijebu East, Abiodun’s bid received another boost when the Owu people within the local government declared their support for his candidature. In demonstration of their support, the people of the ancient community treated Abiodun to a rousing reception. The Atunluse of Owu Ijebu Kingdom, Otunba Femi Adewunmi, explained that his people were throwing their weight behind Abiodun because of his vast experience in the private sector that has earned him to be a successful businessman who they are confident would take the state to enviable heights. He said: “Our in-coming governor, I want to gladly tell you that the people of Owu Ijebu Kingdom are solidly behind you. We would persuade and also influence all our kinsmen across the State to do same. This is because we have seen you as an experienced businessman who has been successful in his businesses and it won’t be difficult for you to take this state to greater heights.” The monarch added: “We are assuring you of our maximum support with our resources to ensure you emerge victorious in this local government and the state at large. We are urging you to make sure you fulfill most of your electoral promises and give a new lease of life to the people of Ijebuland and Ogun State at large. Abiodun, who was excited by the huge crowd, assured the people of good governance and fair distribution of government projects. He said: “I want to sincerely appreciate you for this colorful reception. It is an indication that God is truly with us in this project. I also want to assure you, that your support will not be taking for granted and we will ensure that this is reciprocated through provisions of good governance that will enhance good lives for both urban and rural dwellers in the State.” The campaign train moved round the local government from Ijebu Imushin to Ebute Odo, Ogbere and Itele before the grand finale at Ijebu-Ife. The people of the local government area were enthusiastic. The tour of Sagamu Local Government Area, was a home call for Abiodun. While in the ancient town, party faithful and residents out to show their gratitude for Abiodun’s choice as candidate. While making Express Junction Unit, Sagamu his first port of call, Abiodun charged members of the National Union Road Transport Workers (NURTW) to reject offers to sell their PVCs, but rather use them to elect credible and competent political office seekers in the forthcoming general elections. The same message re-echoed when he met members of the National Automobile Technicians Association (NATA) and Processing Woods Marketers Association of Nigeria (PWMAN). He gave the charge in Sagamu, in Sagamu Local Government Area, on Tuesday, while on a ward-to-ward campaign tour of the ancient town. The Ogun State APC governorship candidate who was accompanied by his running mate, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, Sen. Gbenga Kaka, Director-General (DG) of the campaign organisation, Segun Adesegun, Remo North/Ikenne/Sagamu Federal Constituency candidate, Otunba (Mrs.) Yetunde Onanuga, former Ogun State Commissioner for Sports, Mr. Afolabi Afuape, Ganiyu Hamzat, among others, while on a campaign tour round the ancient town, underscored the importance of the PVCs to electing credible and competent political office seekers and urged the leadership of the various Associations to persuade their members to use the cards to vote wisely. Addressing members of the Processing Woods Marketers Associations of Nigeria (PWMAN) at the state secretariat, Express Junction, Sagamu, Abiodun told the leadership of the Association, led by Chief Samson Dosumu, that it is the APC that can provide the capable leadership at the Federal, governorship, National and State House of Assembly levels to the myriad of problems confronting the state. He, however, warned the people to be wary of the antics of some politicians that have nothing in stock to offer them. Abiodun said: “As the general elections are approaching, I want you to take cognizance of the fact that your PVC is your voting power. Don’t sell it. “I am assuring you that APC is the party that can deliver the dividends of democracy. We have an array of capable and competent candidates into various elective offices and I want to admonish you to cast your votes for them. I want to assure you, that they will not disappoint you. “Our administration is going to keep all electoral promises when we get into the office and I want you to count on me”. While rounding off his campaign tour of the town at the Palace of Akarigbo, Sagamu, the APC governorship candidate appealed to the party faithfuls and supporters to cast their votes for the President Muhammadu Buhari/Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) joint ticket in the February 16 elections. “The Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) is our son. He is from Ikenne-Remo and we should all support the joint ticket re-election of Buhari/Osinbajo and National Assembly candidates with our votes. “When it is the turn of the governorship and State House of Assembly elections slated for March 2, cast your votes for me, Dapo Abiodun, your son, for the governorship seat and all the State House of Assembly candidates”, Abiodun appealed.” A day earlier, the APC flag bearer visited Sotunbo, Ita-Sanni and Ogijo. He had a brief stop-over at Mosinmi, where he met with members Petroleum Tanker Drivers (PTD) who pledged their support for his emergence as the next governor of the state and the re-election of Buhari/Osinbajo presidential joint ticket. The Chairman of the Association, Alhaji Abiodun described the APC governorship candidate as a veteran and guru in the oil and gas sector and who knows where the shoes pinches and would demonstrate competence in governing the state. The Ologijo of Ogijo, Oba Kazeem Olaonipekun, offered payers for Abiodun. He noted that, with the APC candidate emerging the next governor of the state he would put smiles on peoples’ faces, while things would take shapes as well. Religion and ethnicity Abiodun promised to give equal treatment to all inhabitants, irrespective of religion and ethnicity. He made the promise when he met with the Southwest leadership of Miyetti Allah, an umbrella body of cattle dealers at “Rounder”, along Aiyetoro/Imeko road, Abeokuta, Abeokuta North Local Government Area. Abiodun, who had earlier addressed party faithful and supporters at Totoro, and market women and men at Lafenwa promised to live up to expectations.