Though Roma and The Favourite led the nominations with 10 each on Sunday, it was Green Book that took the best picture gong, with Rami Malek and Olivia Colman winning big in the best-acting categories. Other big wins of the night included Alfonso Cuarón for best director, Spike Lee for best adapted screenplay — his first non-honorary Oscar win — Mahershala Ali for best supporting actor, Regina King for best supporting actress and Black Panther for three awards: best costume design, production design and best original score. For Spike Lee, winner of the best adapted screenplay award for his film BlacKkKlansman, that meant heading off to South East Asia at the first opportunity. “I’m on a plane tomorrow morning to Thailand,” the US film-maker told reporters on Sunday. Spike Lee did not do much to hide his displeasure when Green Book beat his film and six others to this year’s best picture Oscar. The ‘BlacKkKlansman’ director was said to have tried to storm out of the Dolby Theatre when the winner was read out by Julia Roberts. “I thought I was courtside at the [Madison Square] Garden and the ref made a bad call,” Lee later told reporters, saying the film was “not his cup of tea”. “I’m snake-bit,” he joked, using a euphemism for experiencing failure or bad luck. “Every time somebody’s driving somebody, I lose.” His comment was a reference to ‘Driving Miss Daisy’, winner of the best picture Oscar in 1990 and a film to which ‘Green Book’ has been compared. Lee’s film ‘Do the Right Thing’ was nominated for two Oscars in 1990 – best original screenplay and best supporting actor – but missed out on both. In ‘Green Book’, an African-American classical pianist is driven around the American south of the 1960s by an Italian-American chauffeur. In Driving Miss Daisy, an elderly Southern matron grudgingly agrees to be chauffeured by an African-American driver. “They changed the seating arrangement!” said Lee of ‘Green Book’, which also won Oscars for its screenplay and for supporting actor Mahershala Ali. ‘Black Panther’ star Chadwick Boseman also expressed disappointment as ‘Green Book’ director Peter Farrelly and his predominantly white production team took to the stage.