The National Assembly will get new members after tomorrow’s election. Some old hands may also return. Yusuf Alli, Emmanuel Oladesu, Raymond Mordi, Leke Salaudeen, Musa Odoshimhoke, Adamu Sulaiman (Sokoto), Joel Duku (Damaturu), Kolade Adeyemi (Kano), Adekunle Jimoh (Ilorin) and Abdulgafar Alabelewe (Kaduna) report. Kogi  In a state like Kogi, where the ruling APC has been embroiled in crisis, it may be difficult to say who would carry the day. In the Kogi East race, the leading contenders are: Attai Aidoko of the PDP, Victor Adoji of African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Jibril Isa, aka Echocho, of the APC. Aidoko is a sitting senator, while Echocho is a former governorship candidate. Adoji is a tested technocrat. He is popular. But, his party is relatively new. It would have been a smooth sail for Aidoko, if he had performed to the expectation of the people. But, the way things stand at the moment, victory is not certain for him this time around. Echocho is a community man, held in esteem by stakeholders. He is a household name in his district. He could yet prevail tomorrow, despite the animosity towards the governor. But, the seeming animosity of the people of the area towards the APC administration of Governor Yahaya Bello may work in Aidoko’s favour and earn him a return to the upper legislative chamber. In Kogi West, the drama of the shifting political landscape would play out vividly in the zone’s senatorial election. The battle is between Senator Smart Adeyemi and Senator Dino Melaye of the APC and the PDP respectively. During the last general election, Adeyemi, a sitting senator then, contested on the platform of the then ruling PDP and Melaye who flew the banner of the APC, then the main opposition party. This time around, there is a reversal of roles, with Adeyemi switching to the APC, while Melaye has equally defected to the PDP. Adeyemi is generally believed to have delivered more democratic dividends to the people while at the Senate. Melaye also enjoys the support of the people for being outspoken in the Senate; even though some believe that he usually fights the wrong battle. The perceived anti-government sentiment in the state would also favour him. However, he is said to have lost the vital support of the Lokoja/Koto axis, where he received overwhelming support in 2015. The contest may be tough in Kogi Central, where Senator Ahmed Ogembe (PDP), Alhaji Yakubu Oseni (APC) and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate, Natasha Hadiza Akpoti, are vigorously campaigning for votes.  Kwara  The Kwara Central race, where the APC’s Dr Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe is going to slug it out with the PDP’s Senator Bukola Saraki, will be an epic battle. It is going to be a battle between a hitherto solid but now dying political Saraki political dynasty and a mass movement. No doubt, the Senate President has a rich political background, but this time he would be contesting against the tsunami that is currently brewing in the Northcentral state. Oloriegbe is a medical doctor and a former World Health Organisation (WHO) consultant. The odds are against Saraki, because the people of Ilorin Emirate who have over the years supported him are revolting against him this time around. The tsunami, dubbed oto ge or ‘enough is enough’ would see Saraki being challenged in a free and fair election for the first time. The emirate has the largest voting population of the state. The people are apparently fed up with his style of leadership. Little wonder, the masses are not looking at the personality of the APC candidate, but are desirous for a change. In Kwara South, the contest seems to have been made easy for the APC candidate Lola Ashiru, because the PDP is in disarray over who should fly its flag in the zone. INEC has declared Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed as the PDP candidate for the race, but the party is insisting that the current Senator representing the district, Dr Rafiu Adebayo Ibrahim, is its candidate. Traditionally, Kwara Southerners are opposed to the political dynasty of the Sarakis. Besides, the victory of the APC in the recent bye-election in Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Isin/Irepodun Federal Constituency confirmed the supremacy of APC in the area. The PDP sought to drop the governor from the senatorial race, soon after the by-election for fear that he could be defeated. But, the INEC said it was too late. In Kwara North, it is going to be a battle royale between a serving member of the House of Representatives, Zakari Mohammed of the PDP and Umar Sodiq of the APC. Kwara North people have been close allies of the Sarakis. Mohammed hails from Baruten Local Government Area, while Sodiq, a pharmacist, hails from Kaiama Local Government Area.  Sokoto  Senator Abdullahi Danbaba Dambuwa (Sokoto South), Senator Ahmed Maccido (Sokoto Central) and Salihu Maidaji (Sokoto East) are contesting on the platform of the PDP, while Abubakar Shehu Tambuwal (Sokoto South), Senator Ibrahim Abdullahi Gobir (Sokoto East) and Senator Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto Central) are doing so on the ticket of the APC. Wamakko, Gobir and Dambuwa are seeking re-election, but Danbaba who defected from the APC to the PDP created space for Tambuwal to pick the ticket in Sokoto South. Tambuwal and Maidaji are new entrants, while Maccido is a former senator. In the eastern zone, Gobir is holding sway for the APC across eight local governments where the party is presumably strong. He will be facing Maidaji of the PDP, who is currently the Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly. Tambuwal is a seasoned politician and a former PDP chieftain with massive following in Tambuwal town. He defected to the APC recently and promptly got the ticket. He is believed to be one of the most influential opinion leaders in the town. Tambuwal is up against Senator Danbaba who is also seeking re-election. Danbaba defected to the PDP last year with the governor and others. But observers in the zone, which is made up of seven local governments, say the lawmaker did not perform to expectation to deserve a re-election. For the Sokoto central zone, Senator Wamakko remains the candidate to beat, because he stands to reap what can best be described as ‘payback votes.’ Maccido, his PDP counterpart is one-time senator who is banking on the bandwagon votes. PDP stalwarts led by Attahiru Bafarawa and Governor Aminu Tambuwal are mobilising the people to vote for all the party’s candidates.  Yobe  In Yobe State, the APC is confident that it will win the three senatorial seats on Saturday. However, it will be a tough battle for the party to dethrone the incumbent PDP senator from Zone B, Mohammed Hassan who is working tirelessly to be re-elected. Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam (APC), who is contesting in Zone A, appears to have no major challenger. He is capitalizing on the weak opposition. The PDP appears to have given up, because it is virtually not engaging the voters in a rigorous campaign. Gaidam will however have to contend with former local government chairman, Abbagana Tata (PDP). Tata is also the longest serving PDP chairman in the state. As a result, he has a lot of grassroots support. But, he may not be able to muster enough financial muscle to march that of his opponent, Governor Gaidam. In Yobe South, Mohammed Hassan, aka Dembu (PDP), is the current senator representing the zone at the upper legislative chamber. Dembu in 2015 defeated the APC senator in the zone in an aggressive campaign that was largely hinged on tribal and ethnic sentiments. The senator is not a push over, despite the fact that the state is currently governed by the APC. He is said to be well connected to the grassroots, due to his outstanding performance at the Red Chamber. Mohammed Ibrahim Bomoi is flying the flag of the APC in Yobe South, otherwise known as Zone C. But he appears to be contesting for the Senate reluctantly, because he was forced to fly the senatorial flag of the party after he was denied the governorship ticket by forces within the fold. The retired billionaire and former Director of Finance at the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) does not seem to have the money for the campaign and he is not receiving much support from the party. For instance, Bomoi was absent at the party’s rally in his home town, Potiskum. This development has sent a negative signal to the people that he is not seriously in contention for the seat. Senator Ahmed Lawan (APC), who is currently the Senate Leader, is the APC flag bearer in Zone C. Lawan will be completing his 20th year at the National Assembly and he still looks sure of being re-elected on Saturday. His stay at the National Assembly and connection to the people leaves him at a vantage position to be re-elected more than his PDP opponent. Therefore, the PDP candidate in the zone, Sherriff Abdu, is facing a formidable opponent in the Senate Leader. Abdu was elected twice as chairman of Bade Local Government in the aborted Third Republic on the platform of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), and the defunct All Peoples Party (APP) in 1999. The PDP candidate is counting on his grassroots popularity to dislodge  Lawan tomorrow.  Kaduna  In Kaduna North, the race is between the incumbent Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi of the PDP and Suleiman Abdu Kwari of the APC. Kwari is the immediate past Commissioner of Finance. Indications are that any party that wins the zone in the senatorial election will mostly likely clinch the governorship seat. The odds favour the APC to triumph, because of the Muhammadu Buhari factor and the power of incumbency at the state level. But, other factors also favour the PDP candidate. These are the unwavering influence of two former governors, Senator Ahmed Makarfi and Mukhtar Ramalan Yero, as well as the grassroots mobilisation strength of Hunkuyi himself. Though the President is originally from Katsina, he has lived most of life in Kaduna. Not only is President Buhari loved in Kaduna, he is ‘worshiped’. Therefore, the Hausa-Fulani dominated Kaduna North zone, where Buhari is favoured to win his re-election bid, is most likely to vote APC in the National Assembly election, especially since the presidential and the National Assembly elections fall on the same day. Besides, the sitting Governor Nasir El-Rufai will be giving Kwari’s election his best, not only because the zone will determine who wins the governorship, but also because the governor cannot afford a return of Hunkuyi who while in the APC worked against him, by blocking the $350m loan the state was seeking from the World Bank. In Kaduna Central, the election is going to be very interesting. This is because the incumbent Senator Shehu Sani is neither in the ruling APC nor the major opposition party, the PDP. Sani defected to the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) at the peak of his disagreement with Governor El-Rufai. But, unlike Senator Hunkuyi, the misunderstanding between Sani and El-Rufai started at the inception of the APC administration. The crisis became irredeemable when Sani, who is the chairman Senate Committee on Foreign and Domestic Loans, publicly stated that the Senate will not allow the El-Rufai-led administration to access the World Bank loan. Sani would be facing Lawal Usman of the PDP and El-Rufai’s annointed candidate, Uba Sani, at the poll. The election will be a unique one, but the Buhari factor will favour Uba Sani against the very popular Shehu contesting on the platform of an unpopular party and the unpopular PDP candidate. Though Shehu Sani enjoys high level of support from the grassroots, an average electorate from Igabi, Kaduna North and Giwa local governments where majority of the votes will come from will easily sacrifice him for Buhari’s love. While the votes from Kaduna South, Chikun and Kajuru local governments will not be significant enough for him to emerge victorious, especially since the PDP candidate is favoured by the Atiku factor on those local governments. For Kaduna South, neither the Buhari nor the El-Rufai factor will work here. The zone has since inception of El-Rufai’s administration demonstrated resentment to his government. The Deputy Governor, Barnabas Yusuf Bala, is the APC senatorial candidate for the zone. Besides, the zone did not vote the APC in 2015 and there is no sign they will change their mind this time. This is a plus for the incumbent Senator Danjuma La’ah.  Kano  Before the latest political development that saw the cross-carpeting of some political heavyweights between the two major parties, all the three senators representing Kano were all in APC. However, with the defection of immediate-past Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso from the APC to the PDP and the return of former Governor Ibrahim Shekarau to the APC, the game has changed. Shekarau is the APC flag bearer for Kano Central. So, there is no doubt the PDP is on the verge of losing influence with the entrance of Shekarau in the senatorial contest. Shekarau is two-time governor of the state. Since 2003 when he defeated Kwankwaso as an incumbent governor, Malam as Shekarau is fondly called, has become a political nightmare to Kwankwaso. Though Kwankwaso is not re-contesting the senatorial seat, he planted one of his political godsons, Aliyu Sani Madakin Gini, as the PDP candidate for Kano Central. However, pundits have described Madakin’s candidature, as a ladder to victory for Shekarau, as the House of Representatives member, cannot, in any way, withstand Shekarau’s political weight. In Kano South, Senator Kabiru Gaya, a former governor in the aborted Third Republic on the platform of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) and a fourth-timer at the Red Chamber, is sure to represent Kano South district again, going by his political pedigree. He is going to slug it out with Alhaji Abdullahi Sani Rogo of the PDP. Rogo, a former political associate of Malam Shekarau, is now one of the chieftains of the Kwankwasiyya Movement. During Shekarau’s tenure as governor, between 2003 and 2007, Rogo was one of the powerful members of Shekarau’s cabinet; he manned the juicy Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. That was the first time Rogo appeared in Kano’s political scene. Since then, Rogo has been cross-carpeting from one party to the other in search of political fortune. Now that he has been favoured by Kwankwaso with a PDP senatorial ticket, political analysts continue to wonder how Rogo will be able to defeat Senator Gaya, with his wealth of experience and influence within and outside Kano’s political landscape. More so, Gaya is known to be a close political ally to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the sitting governor. In Kano North, the sitting Senator, Barau Jibril, is seeking to return to the Red Chamber on the ticket of the APC. Senator Jubril was a member of House of Representatives between 1999 and 2003 when he chaired the House Committee on Appropriation. He was in the House of Representatives under the platform of the PDP. After 2003, he left the political scene, but re-emerged in 2015 as the senator representing Kano North, after he defeated the influential Senator Bello Hayatu Gwarzo of the PDP, who had been in the Senate from 1999 to 2015. Come this Saturday, the eloquent and outspoken Senator Barau Jubril will be challenged by Ahmed Garba Bichi of the PDP. Ahmed Garba Bichi is not a small fry politically. During the tenure of the late President Umar Musa Yar’Adua, he served as Minister of State for Commerce and Industry. A close political ally to Kwankwaso and one of the powerful chieftains of the Kwankwasiyya Movement, Bichi contested against Malam Ibrahim Shekarau in the 2007 governorship election in Kano, where Shekarau defeated him with a narrow margin. The contest between Bichi and Senator Barau Jubril is expected to be very fierce, keen and hot as Kwankwaso’s influence will also play a major role in the contest, to his favour. However, Governor Ganduje, who comes from the Kano North zone, is likely to lend a helping hand to the effort of his political loyalist and right-hand man.  Edo  Former House of Representatives member, Abubakar Momoh, is the PDP candidate for Edo North. He will slug it out with Senator Francis Alimikhena of the APC. Alimikhena is the current occupier of the seat. The two candidates are formidable, but the APC candidate would bank on the existing structure and the popularity it currently enjoys. Alimikhena has promised to retire Momoh from politics. He said Momoh is mocking himself by claiming he executed projects which cannot be verified. The contest for Edo South is between Matthew Urhoghide of the PDP and Patrick Obahiagbon of the APC. The two personalities are very popular; it is believed that the contest will be keen. The candidates have equally distinguished themselves in public service. Obahiagbon is renowned for his commitment to comic performance, which many say has endeared him to the grassroots. In Edo Central, Patrick Ikharhiale of the APC will slug it out with John Inegbedion of the PDP. Esanland is known to be the stronghold of the PDP. Inegbedion secured victory for the PDP in the 2015 election. Esanland is the home turf of Chief Tony Anenih and other notable politicians. They used to be in firm control of the area. But, with the death of Anenih,, things have changed. Governor Godwin Obaseki has in recent times focused on the district, implementing projects and wooing the district to the APC. Saturday will see of the people of the area are appreciative of his efforts.  Delta  In Delta South, James Manager of the PDP is going to test his popularity for the fifth time. So, he will do everything possible to prove skeptics wrong, by winning the election. But, he has a formidable opponent in the person of former Governor Emmanuel Udaughan. The former governor who is contesting on the APC platform is favoured by the opinion polls. Uduaghan’s vision and plan for Delta South touched the Niger Delta region; this has further endeared him to the people. He carried out developmental projects in the zone when he was governor, which is likely to boost his chances. In Delta North, Doris Uboh of the APC will battle the incumbent Senator Peter Nwaoboshi of the PDP. Nwaoboshi has all the aces. In the Delta Central zone, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege of the APC will face Evelyn Oboro-Ojokoro of the PDP. Omo-Agege has been in the eye of the storm during the current session at the National Assembly. He is quite popular and likely to emerge victorious at the election.  Akwa Ibom  In Akwa Ibom Northwest district, which is also known as the Ikot Ekpene zone, former Governor Godswill Akpabio is the APC flag bearer. He will contest against Christopher Ekpenyong of the PDP. Akwa Ibom South it is a battle between Nelson Effiong of the APC and Dr. Akon Eyakenya of the PDP. In Akwa Ibom Northeast, Bassey Etim of the APC will challenge Bassey Akpan of the PDP.  Anambra  In Anambra Central, Senator Victor Umeh of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) will confront Senator Uche Ekwunife of the APC and Charles Odunukwe of the PDP. The race for the Anambra South seat will feature Nicholas Ukachukwu of APGA, Senator Andy Uba of the APC and Chris Uba of the PDP. Capital Oil boss Ifenayi Ubah is the candidate of the Young Peoples Party (YPP).The battle will be very interesting, given that the Uba brothers have been in the game of over the years.  In the North District, Senator Magi Okadigbo of APC and Mrs. Stella Oduah of PDP will slug it out on poll day.  Oyo  In Oyo South, three eminent politicians would slug it out. They are Governor Abiola  Ajimobi of the APC, Chief Bayo Lawal of the PDP  and the incumbent senator, Soji Akanbi who is contesting on the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC). Ajimobi is a veteran in Oyo politics. He came to the limelight in 2003 when he was elected a senator representing the zone on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy (AD). In 2007, he contested the governorship election under the umbrella of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) but lost the election. He contested again on the platform of APC and was elected in a keenly contested election. Lawal was a retired Group Captain in Nigeria Air Force. Apart from being a PDP chieftain, his political experience is sketchy. He won the party’s senatorial ticket in a shadow election. He polled 461 votes to defeat his rival and former Deputy Governor, Alhaji Azeem Gbolarumi who scored 66 votes. Akanbi is currently representing the zone in the Senate. He was elected on the platform of APC in 2015, but dumped the party and joined the ADC. He decided to leave the APC following the insistence of Governor Ajimobi to return to the Senate. In Oyo Central, former Senate Leader, Senator Teslim Folarin, of the APC will slug it out with the incumbent senator representing the zone, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu of the ADC, Bisi Ilaka of the PDP and Tope Olatoye of the ADP. Folarin was a two-term senator. He contested and won the senatorial seat to represent Oyo Central in 2003 at the age of 39 on the platform of the PDP. He was re-elected for second term in 2007 on the same platform. Folarin remains the only legislator from Oyo State who has served two terms at the Senate. During his second tenure, he was appointed Senate Leader. Folarin contested for the governorship on the ticket of the PDP in 2014, but he lost the election to the incumbent Governor Ajimobi. He defected to the APC in December 2017. He is a ranked traditional chief, the Laguna Olubadan of Ibadanland. Sunmonu was elected to the Senate on the platform of the APC, but he dumped the party in 2018 and declared for the ADC. She was the former Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly. She and Ilaka hail from Oyo town. They will share the four local governments in Oyo zone. For Oyo North, the incumbent, Senator  Abdulfatai Buhari of the APC will slug it out with Mrs Mulikat Akande-Adeola of the PDP and Bayo Lawal of the ADC. Buhari will rely on the goodwill of his constituents and good representation in his first term. Of all the three senatorial candidates of APC in Oyo State, it was only Buhari that emerged unopposed, a similar feat he enjoyed in 2015. He was the only senator whose election was not challenged at the tribunal. He established information and communication centres in all the 13 local governments in the senatorial zone. He also built Information Centre for Technology (ICT) centres for the conduct of JAMB examinations in four locations in the zone. Akande-Adeola was a former Majority Leader, House of Representatives. She represented Ogbomoso North, Ogbomoso South and Orire Federal Constituency from 2007 to 2015.  She lost election for a third term in 2015. Lawal hails from Oke-Ogun zone. He is a prominent member of Oke-Ogun Progressive Movement (OPM). He was a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state under the administration of the late Alhaji Lam Adesina. He will be banking on support from Oke-Ogun communities to realise his ambition.  Lagos  The Lagos Central senatorial seat will be a straight fight between the incumbent Senator Oluremi Tinubu of the APC and Mr. Adesunbo Onitiri of the PDP. Senator Tinubu is serving her second term on the platform of the APC. An educationist, administrator, philanthropist and Officer of the Order of Niger (OON), she was the exemplary First Lady of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007, during which period she founded the New Era Foundation; a non-profit organisation dedicated to youth development, girl-child education, women empowerment and inspiring young people to excellence. As senator, she hosts quarterly town hall meetings with her constituents to render accounts of her stewardship and obtain feedbacks on their developmental needs. She has sponsored bills to provide security for elderly citizens; seek the amendment of Labour Act; to enhance employment opportunities for women and a bill to provide special economic assistance to Lagos State in view of its status as a former capital city and the commercial capital of Nigeria. She has impacted positively on her constituents through her constituency development initiative such as scholarship awards; provision of maintenance grants for senior citizens and sponsorship of Youth Empowerment and Skills acquisition Scheme. Onitiri is not a neophyte in politics. He played a significant role in the struggle for democracy, especially during the June 12, 1993 struggle. He obtained the historic landmark judgment of June 12 that enabled the election to hold on June 12. He organised the Epetedo  Declaration along with the late Prince Ademola Adele and the late Senator Wahab Dosunmu in which the winner of June 12 presidential election, the late Chief M.K.O. Abiola re-claimed his mandate. Onitiri, General Secretary of Lagos Elders Council, said he decided to contest the senatorial seat to change many obsolete laws that still exist in nation’s statute books for good governance. He said the 1999 Constitution, as amended, did not give room for true democracy to survive in the country. In Lagos West district, the incumbent Senator Solomon Adeola (a.k.a. Yayi) is the APC candidate. He is seeking a second term at the red chamber. He was elected senator in 2015 on the platform of the APC. Prior to his senatorial election, Adeola was a member of Lagos State House of Assembly from 2003 to 2011 and House of Representatives from May2011 to May 2015. In the Senate, he’s the Vice Chairman of Communications Committee. He served as Chairman of Public Accounts in the House of Representatives among others. The PDP candidate is 35-year old Gbadebo Rhodes Vivour. He is a greenhorn in politics. He said he is in the race to represent the Lagos West in the Senate to show his constituents what true representation looks and feels like. He said: “I am running to fight for you, to ensure that you get all that is due to you.”  Ondo  The Ondo North senatorial seat is a straight fight between the incumbent Senator Ajayi Boroffice of the APC and Dr Tunji Abayomi of Action Alliance (AA). Boroffice was first elected as senator in 2011 on the platform of Labour Party and later decamped to the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) on December 28, 2011, so that he can pursue his governorship ambition. He was re-elected as senator in 2015 on the platform of APC. Abayomi, the AA candidate, was a staunch member of the APC in Ondo State. He was one of the aspirants that contested for the APC governorship candidate along with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and Boroffice in 2016. Following the unresolved internal crisis that rocked the APC senatorial primary for Ondo North, Abayomi left the party. He claimed to have won the APC ticket to represent Ondo North at the upper legislative chamber. He also alleged that the national leadership of the party gave the ticket to Senator Boroffice at his expense. Abayomi, a legal practitioner and human right activist, said: “In keeping with long standing determination to fight for my right, I will run for the senate in Ondo North Senatorial Zone on the platform of Action Alliance since the national leadership of APC has unconstitutionally blocked my chance by forcing its candidate on us all.”  Osun  The immediate past Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Osun State Dr Ajibola Basiru is the APC standard bearer for Osun Central Senatorial District. He also served as Commissioner for Regional Integration and Special Duties under the administration of Rauf Aregbesola . He was a member of the AD and remained in the party through its metamorphosis to Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and now APC. Basiru has articulated agenda for the people of Osun Central. He promised continous consultation with the constituents; sponsorship of beneficial bills; establishment of skills /vocational training centres across the senatorial zone; annual employability/career training /Job Fair for graduates in the senatorial district to ensure that our graduates are not only qualified but employable. His promise also include facilitation of a Tech/ICT Hub for youth in the district; annual medical outreach/ health awareness programmes; creation of Food Bank for the district; Ajibola Basiru’s water project; Bill to establish  a Federal Medical Centre in Osun Central and an all-inclusive qualitative representation at the senate. The former Osun State Chairman of PDP, Alhaji Gani Ola-Oluwa is the senatorial candidate for Osun Central.  He defeated other aspirants with intimidating credentials such Chief Kola Ogunwale who was in the Senate between 2003 and 2007 and Alhaji Fatai Diekola, a PDP chieftain in the state. Ola-oluwa served as Special Adviser on Special Duties to former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola before he became Chairman, Olorunda Local Government in 2007. Ola-Oluwa candidacy is being threatened by a suit seeking his disqualification over lack of requisite qualification to stand for senatorial election.  The matter is still pending before the Federal High Court, Osogbo. In Osun East (Ife/Ijesa), House of Representatives member Ajibola Famurewa of the APC is the candidate to beat. He has the backing of Senator Iyiola Omisore, who is backing the APC.  Ekiti  The contest for Ekiti South senatorial seat is between the Senate Minority Leader and PDP senatorial candidate, Senator Abiodun Olujimi and Prince Adeyeye of the APC. Olujimi is an experienced politician. She started her political career in 1997 when she joined her husband in politics as the National Publicity Secretary of the defunct NCPN. She moved to All Peoples Congress (APC) also as publicity secretary. She joined the PDP in 2002 which marked the beginning of her elevation in politics. In 2003, she was appointed Special Assistant by former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose. From there, she was elected as member, House of Representatives. She became Deputy Governor in 2005. In 2015, she contested for the senatorial seat to represent Ekiti South and she won . She was deputy Minority Whip and later Minority Leader. Former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye is the APC senatorial candidate. He emerged as a consensus candidate. Adeye defected from the PDP to APC prior to July 14, 2017 governorship election to support Dr Kayode Fayemi. Adeyeye was a pro-democracy activist and a member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). He was Director of Publicity, Falae for President Campaign Organisation (1990-1992. He was adviser on policy and press matters, M.K.O. Abiola for President Campaign Organisation  (1993), spokesman for Alliance for Democracy (AD) and a member of the Southwest Delegation to the Nigerian Leaders of Thought Conference. In 2006, he was a governorship aspirant in Ekiti on the platform of AD in which Fayemi emerged as the governorship candidate. Adeyeye and other 12 aspirants defected to the PDP.  Again, in 2018, he declared interest to contest Ekiti governorship seat under PDP. He lost to Kolapo Olusola-Eleka considered as Fayose’s anointed candidate. In Ekiti central, Obafemi Adewale, former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, is contesting on the platform of the PDP. Former House of Representatives member Oyeyemi Bamidele is the APC flag bearer. In the North, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi is the candidate of the APC.  Ogun  Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun is the APC candidate for Ogun Central Senatorial District. The state chapter of the party had been enmeshed in internal crisis following the governorship primary that produced Prince Dapo Abiodun as the candidate of the party, against the preferred choice of the governor, Adekunle Akinlade who had been chosen as the party’s consensus candidate before the primary. After the primary, conducted by the electoral committee from the National Working Committee, in which his candidate lost, the governor had protested against the outcome. But in a bid to pacify the governor and end the crisis, the party gave him three senatorial slots and a Rep position. Despite the efforts to pacify him, Amosun had directed his loyalists to leave APC andjoin APM. His anointed candidate, Akinlade is the APM governorship candidate in Ogun State. Amosun accepted the APC senatorial ticket for Ogun Centraland has been on the field canvassing for votes. But he has vowed to work against the APC governorship candidate in the state. The First female Speaker of the Ogun State Hous of Assembly, Mrs Titi Oseni-Gomez will slug it out with Amosun. She is contesting on the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC). She was adopted as consensus candidate among other aspirants which included Femi Maje kodunmi and Bisola Sodipo-Clark. Oseni-Gomez, who hailed from Abeokuta South, ventured into politics in 1999. She was elected Speaker on June 4, 2013 on PDP platform. The PDP flag bearer for Ogun Central Senatorial District is Apostle Solomon Abiodun Sanyaolu.  Benue:  Benue is a state to watch. This is because of the pre-election defections and flexing of muscles by APC and PDP leaders. There are three zones in the state. Zone A is made up of Lago, Katsina-Ala and Ukum. The zone has produced three senators-Prof. Hagher, Prof. Daniel Sasor and Brg-Gen. Akaagaga. Konshigha, Vandekaiya, Kwande and Ushongo are also part of the zone. Ushongo produced David Iornem as senator in 1992 on the platform of the proscribed Social Democratic Party (SDP). Former Governor Gabriel Suswan is fro Logo. Senator Barnabas Gemade is from Konshisha. He has been elected twice. He is seeking a third term in SDP. The APC candidate is from Kwande. The local government has not produced a senator. Many stakeholders want the senatorial seat to rotate. Elder statesman Paul Nnongo from Kwande is backing the APC candidate. Zone B is perceived as the stronghold of Senator George Akume, former governor of the state. It comprise Gboko, Torko, Makurdi and Gwar. Akume wants to keep his seat in the Senate. Governor Sam Ortom is interested in a second term. There is rivalry between the two leaders, who parted ways last year. The governor has vowed to stop Akume. He said he would prefer to lose than allow Akume to return to the Upper Chamber.  Also, Akume has vowed to abort Ortom’s second term bid. The PDP candidate is no match for Akume. But, Ortom, Senator Iyi=orcha Ayu and other PDP big shots are backing him. Zone C is Senator David Mark’s zone. He has handed the baton to his trusted ally, Abba oro, former Interior Minister.  Nasarawa  The senatorial race appears very keen in Nasarawa State because of its heterogeneous nature. The death of the Emir of Lafia, Alh. Isa Mustapha Agwai, who weilded much political influence and dictated the pace of politics, might change the calculation. In Nasarawa South, it is a tough battle between Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura and the incumbent senator , Suleiman Adokwe. While Adokwe is an Alago, the governor is from a minority ethnic group called Gwandara. The district comprises five local governments: Lafia, Doma, Awe, Obi and Keana. The Alago are in dominance in three of the local governments especially Obi, Keana and Doma. According to a source, “the Alago people always vote along ethnic line. But when the chips are down and they need to consider religious factor, they queue behind a candidate who is a christian.  The only person who could influence their political direction was the late Emir of Lafia.”  To earn the confidence of the voters in this district, Al-Makura has to rely mostly on his spectacular achievements and a deft political strategy to split the votes of the Alago. For Adokwe, he is relying on his background as an Alago and a Christian. In the North, the same ethnic consideration may define the race. The Eggon will slug it out for the senatorial ticket with the Mada .  With three candidates from Eggon in the race, the PDP was careful in zoning its ticket to the Mada by picking John Mike Abdul in anticipation that the Eggon will split their votes on Saturday. The other candidates in the race from Eggon are  the present Deputy Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Akwashiki Godiya (APC);  Sam Alu (APGA) and former Minister Patricia Akwashiki(SDP) who once represented the district as a senator . In Nasarawa West, it is likely to be an easy ride for ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu, who is highly respected in the district. His image as the founding father of the state still looms large. He enjoys a cult followership with his simplicity and love for his people. He is seeking a third term  in the Senate. The race looks like a family affair as he is really contesting against his erstwhile son-in-law, Aliyu Tafida of the PDP. The PDP candidate is having it rough because the electorate cannot come to terms with why he would divorce Adamu’s daughter and still go after his senatorial seat. They see it as a “double kill”. As a result, many seem to have sympathy for Adamu.  Adamawa State  The contest appears tight too in Adamawa State. The PDP Presidential Candidate, Alh. Atiku Abubakar is from the state and there is enthusiasm among the populace to produce the nation’s leader for the first time. Being a strategist, Atiku has made it clear that he needs a good team in the National Assembly to work with him if elected. Also, President Muhammadu Buhari being an in-law , as the wife Aisha is from the state , has left the voters divided . No one can say for sure who will carry the day between both candidates. In Adamawa South, the incumbent,  Sen. Abubakar Mo-Allah of the APC,  will square it up with Dinos Yero of the PDP . Besides Atiku coming from the South, five out of the nine Local Government Areas in the district are predominantly Christians . Yero is a christian and Mo-Allah a muslim. If voters shun religious sentiments, either of them can win. As for Adamawa North, the incumbent Sen. Binta Mashi has a date with Elisha Abbo of the PDP. Although there is likelihood that Binta might make it, her greatest obstacle is Nyampa Zakariya, who is the PDP House of Representatives candidate for Michika/ Madagali Federal Constituency. Zakariya’s influence is enormous and could affect vote haul by Binta. But with the weighty support of Governor Jibrilla Bindow(also from Adamawa North), Sen. Binta stands a good chance. Her main asset is what a source described as her “excellent performance.” In Adamawa Central, it is a family affair between Hajiya Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (Binani) of the APC and her brother-in-law, Murtala Mohammed Modibbo of the PDP.  Hajiya Aishatu was a member of the House of Representatives from 2011 to 2015 and she executed far-reaching projects. On his part, the PDP candidate lost election in 2007 and later in 2011 to Hajiya Aishatu before leaving for business in Lagos. Tomorrow,  he confronts  Aishatu again in a rematch. They are both Fulani.  Bauchi  The old horses are back to the trenches in Bauchi State with ex-Governors Adamu Muazu and Isa Yuguda playing the role of godfathers. In Bauchi  South District, the candidates  vying for the ticket are Ibrahim Zailani/ Sen. Lawal Yahaya Gumau (APC) depending on the final outcome of the court’s decision on the primaries of the party; Alh. Adamu Yakubu Jibrin (APP);  Ayuba Ibrahim (MMN);  Garba Dahiru (PDP);  Aminu Abdullahi (MPN);  Adamu Musa Umar (APM);  Muhammad Lawal (ACD);  Adamu Ibrahim Jibrin (GPN); Muhammad A.A Duguma (JMPP) and Auwal Musa Adamu. Findings confirmed that the real battle is between Gumau of the APC and Garba Dahiru of the PDP. Although while Zailani/Gumau are rated higher, the intra-party crisis over primaries might be the undoing of the APC if not well managed. A highly-placed source said: “PDP has a weak candidate but APC should manage their crisis.” In the North Senatorial District, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC, Senator Suleiman Nazif Gamawa of the PDP is banking on his youthful age and closeness to the grassroots. Nazif( a veteran of many political battles) is contesting  against APC’s Amb. Adamu Bulkachuwa, the husband of the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa. The last time Amb. Bulkachuwa was in the parliament was from 1999 to 2003 as a member of the House of Representatives.  Voters in the district may punish Nazif for teaming up with the Senate President Bukola Saraki against President Buhari. Nazif won election into the Senate under the APC but decamped to the PDP with Saraki and others last year. The situation is dicey in Bauchi Central District. For Sen. Isa Hamma Misau, representing the district, who was stoned twice by his constituents, it will take the grace of God for him to retain his seat on the platform of PDP. His image as the attack dog of Saraki has diminished his political profile. The real race is between Haliru Dauda Jika (APC) and  Bappa Aliyu Misau of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). A top source said: “From the look of things, the PRP candidate has waxed very strong.  He was denied the ticket in APC and  moved to PRP.  Plateau State  The game on the plateau is a straightforward one between the ruling APC and the PDP in the three senatorial districts. The Plateau State political environment is still dotted by ethnic factor, minority politics and the pulse of the heavyweights who had been determining the fate of the state in the last 40 years. In Plateau North District ,  Hon Rufus Nature  (APC) will go to the ring with Hon  Istifanus  Gyang  ( PDP ). While the PDP candidate is an incumbent member of the House of Representatives,  the APC candidate was Secretary to the State Government ; he resigned to contest the position. Both of them are very strong and so popular  that no one can predict the winner. For Plateau Central, a retired Comptroller-General of Immigration Service, David Paradang (PDP), who was booted out office after some applicants died in a stampede during recruitment in some state capitals during the Presidency of Goodluck Jonathan,  will take on Hezekiah Dimka (APC). Dimka is a retired Commissioner of Police. According to investigation, both the PDP and APC are well rooted in the district. As for Plateau South , it is a battle of wits between Ignatius Longjan of the APC and  Barr Kefas Dandam of the PDP. Findings indicate that the  APC candidate, who is the immediate past deputy governor of the state, is more popular than the PDP  candidate who is relatively unknown.  Taraba  Despite the fact that Taraba State is a long time stronghold of the PDP, there might be an upset during the National Assembly poll going by discontent in the state. The APC senatorial candidates are  General Ishaya Bauka (South), Sen AA Yusuf (Central) Engr. Ahmed Yusuf (North). The flag bearers of PDP are returnee Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha (South), Bako Gassol (Central), Sen. Shuaibu Lau (North). A reliable source, who is familiar with the recent developments in the state, said:  “In PDP, Sen. Bwacha could pull it off.  The other candidates are facing opposition  from the APC..”  Gombe  The titan of Gombe politics, Sen. Danjuma Goje (APC) will be seeking a revalidation election into the Senate for the third time in Gombe Central Senatorial District after being a governor for eight years. His tenure as the chairman of the Appropriation Committee added more to his robust political profile. As a godfather, he is expected to have an easy ride. Notwithstanding, he faces a challenge from the outgoing Speaker of the State House of Assembly,   Nasiru Nono of the PDP. The hurdles before Goje are limited because his district is made up of only two local governments. In Gombe North District, the incumbent Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo (PDP), who is the new game changer, will try his hand on legislative plough by contesting  against Saidu Alkali of the APC. To pave the way for his ticket, the governor swapped with Sen. Bayero Nafada (a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives), who is presently representing Gombe North Senatorial District. Dankwambo conceded governorship ticket to Nafada in exchange for a senatorial ticket. He stands a good chance of winning the ticket because of the unwritten agreement accompanying the swapping. Concerning  Gombe South District,  Sen. Binta Bello (PDP) has an electoral  to settle with Col. Ishaka Bulus of the APC. Binta has been in the House of Representatives for a long time which might work against her. The people of the district are yearning for a new hand.  Niger  The colour of the Senatorial game is principally determined by President Muhammadu Buhari’s tremendous goodwill in the state. Many Emirs in Niger State are also said to be working silently for Buhari and they appeared instrumental to the anointing of some National Assembly and State House of Assembly candidates. Those aspiring for APC senatorial tickets in Niger State are Muhammad Bima (Niger South); Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East) and the spokesman for the Senate, Sen. Sabi Abdullahi. Were it not for the backing of some influential Emirs, Abdullahi who was pelted with missiles by his constituents for allegedly taking sides against Buhari in the Senate, would have lost a second term ticket. He will have a jolly ride back to the Senate because of royal backing. For the PDP, the senatorial candidates are Baba Shehu Agaie (Niger South); and Sani Duba (Niger North). Out of the PDP candidates, only Agaie looks stronger to pose a threat to Bima of the APC but he might still not make it.  Kebbi  For strategic reasons, the APC decided to give automatic return ticket to all its Senators in Kebbi State. This is a joker which has destabilised the PDP in the state. The APC senatorial candidates are ex-Governor Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central); Yahaya Abdullahi (Kebbi North) and Bala Ibn Na’Allah (Kebbi South). The PDP candidates are Abubkar Shehu Geda (Kebbi Central); Usman Bala Suru (Kebbi North) and a former Director-General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, Benjamin Israel Dikki (Kebbi South). Although there are some negligible sentiments against Aliero for being in power circle for a while, he remains a revered leader in the state. If APC has any challenge, it is in Kebbi South where Bala Ibn Na’Allah is its candidate. Apart from being rated as unstable in the Senate during the Presidency face-off with the Senate on some issues, Christians dominate his district and he will find it tough coming back. He is also presently distracted by the court case surrounding the APC senatorial primaries in the district. The ex-DG of BPE is too much a match for him. 