The Nigerian Air Force said on Thursday that it had intensified its strikes on bandits in Zamfara State, killing scores of them and destroying their hideouts and trucks. Its spokesman Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said in a statement that the bombardment was conducted after intelligence reports indicated their presence in the area. Air Commodore Daramola said: “The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation DIRAN MIKIYA has intensified the bombardment of armed bandits’ hideouts in Zamfara State and environs. “The air strikes were preceded by days of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, initiated based on credible Human Intelligence reports, which led to the identification of several camps being used by the bandits to launch attacks against innocent civilians. ” One of the air interdiction missions was conducted at dawn today, 7 February 2019, at a location in Rugu Forest South of Gurbin Baure, where some armed bandits were seen assembled by a logistics truck parked near their compound-hideout. NAF INTENSIFIES BOMBARDMENT OF ARMED BANDITS’ HIDEOUTS, DESTROYS TRUCK, NEUTRALIZES SEVERAL BANDITS AT COMPOUND IN RUGU FOREST ZAMFARA STATEhttps://t.co/HRM91azkIQ pic.twitter.com/4iqtpC22fR — Nigerian Air Force (@NigAirForce) February 7, 2019  “The ATF dispatched a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) attack helicopter and an Alpha Jet to engage the bandits’ truck and compound. ” Overhead the target area, the bandits were seen dispersing in different directions with some attempting to make a getaway in the truck. “The helicopter strafed the moving truck in successive passes immobilizing it and neutralizing its occupants. “The Alpha Jet simultaneously attacked the compound and destroyed one of the huts harbouring the bandits, which was seen engulfed in flames. “Credible Intelligence sources later revealed that several bandits were killed as a result of the attack. “The NAF, working in close coordination with surface forces and other security agencies, will sustain its reconnaissance and air interdiction missions to neutralize the armed bandits and deny them freedom of action in the area. “