LaGos State All Progressives Congress (APC)  governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Oluhas yesterday said that the state is stronger socially and economically because of its diversity. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke against discriminatory comments fuelled by the disruption of elections in some areas  during the last weekend presidential and National Assembly elections, cautioned that Lagosians should not play into the hands of mischief makers and crisis merchants. He said the state is a home for all, assuring that, if elected, his government will serve every Lagosian, regardless of their ethnicity, religion or party affiliation. Speaking on the conduct of the last Saturday’s elections, which he described as peaceful and well-coordinated, the flag bearer said there will be no discrimination in Lagos State. He added: “Every resident of Lagos State is central to the promised socio-economic development of the State, and everyone has the right to identify with any party of their choice. We are stronger and better in our diversity.” “As a politician and a governorship candidate, it will be exciting for me to have the support of every tribe in the state, but where people have other preferences, I cannot say that they do not have such rights. However, it will only be appropriate for electorate to support a party that has made Lagos a home for everyone”. “For instance, 40 per cent of teaching staff in Lagos State public schools are non-Yorubas, the pupils in secondary schools, for which Lagos State Government pays for National Examination Council and Senior Secondary School Examinations are in equal proportion between the Yorubas and non-Yorubas in Lagos State” “As a state, Lagos recognises her heterogeneity and will continue to promote the assorted ethnic composition as a unique advantage over other states in Nigeria. It is only in Lagos State that you can find Principal Officers, who are not ethnic people in the State Civil Service, Parastatals and Establishments. I call on our people to eschew violence and any form of harassment of innocent people. We must live in peace for development we know in Lagos to continue”, said Sanwo-Olu. Sanwo-Olu has anchored his campaign on Inclusive Governance stressing that he will work to positive impact in the lives and businesses of Lagosians. Earlier in his campaign, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu had engaged a number of stakeholder groups, including the Ndigbo, Arewa, Akwa-Ibom, Edo, Ijaw and other ethnics associations in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu has hinged his campaign on the THEME agenda, a wholly social transformation programme, that will bring about a sweeping impact on Transportation & Traffic Management, Health & Environment, Education & Technology, Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy and Entertainment & Tourism. This policy direction, which the Sanwo-Olu government, will focus its developmental efforts on, is designed for collaborative execution by the Private and Public Sector to facilitate inclusiveness and shared prosperity.   