Domestic carriers were hard hit by the postponement of Presidential and National Assembly elections by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC), resulting in the loss of several billions of naira that would have been earned as revenue from ticket sales. Airlines did not operate scheduled domestic and regional flights from the Murtala Muhammed Airport, on Saturday February 16, 2019. Among the affected carriers were Air Peace; Arik Air; Aerocontractors; Dana Air;  Azman Air ; Max Air; Overland Airways and Medview Airlines. Besides airlines that did not operate flights, concessionaires at the airport did not carry out any commercial activity forcing to lose revenue running into millions of naira. Sources closed to airlines said the losses could be up to over one billion as revenue that would have accrued from ticket sales. Spokesman for Air Peace, Chris Iwarah said  the airline had to make sacrifice of cancelling about 90 flights scheduled on Saturday  due to general election. He said :”  While we thought it right to make the sacrifice as part of our contribution to the development and stability of our dear nation. It is unfortunate that the sacrifice eventually amounted to nothing.” He stated that this would not discourage them from continuing to be part of efforts to give the country the best. The huge loss according to the Managing Director of Aglow Aviation, Mr. Tayo Ojuri would have an adverse impact on the aviation sector and by implication  affect the economy. Ojuri disclosed that it would be difficult to quantity the losses now, but hinted that the loss could be over $250 million which he said affected airlines, over 150 concessionaires, service providers, airport authority, car rentals and others. He stated that because of the postponement, all local and international flights were cancelled especially those who operate day flights including Virgin Atlantic Airways ;  Emirates Airlines; Ethiopian Airlines;  Rwandair among others. Ethiopian Airlines had three days ago stated in a statement that it won’t operate to Nigeria because of the election; a huge loss to the carrier and airport. The airport has automatically lost over $10, 000 on $50 on each passenger as Passenger Service Charge (PSC) on over 200 passengers. The airline also operates into Abuja, Enugu and Kano. The only unaffected airlines include British Airways, Lufthansa, KLM and Air-France , which do not operate night flights. “You can now see how much money will be lost due to this cancellation, because ordinarily if not for election there will not be reason for that mass flights cancellation or rescheduled.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has clarified that there was no disruption in the provision of air traffic services on Saturday , February 16, 2019. Its spokesman and general manager public affairs, Khalid Emele disclosed in a statement. Emele said NAMA remains alive to its responsibility in keeping its mandate of providing uninterrupted safe, effective, efficient, and economic air navigation services in the country. He said the agency in line with the directive of the Minister of State (Aviation), Hadi Sirika ensured a 24-hour operation at airports on Friday, February  15, 2019 to facilitate the transportation of INEC materials nationwide. Emele said:” In the same vein, NAMA wishes to reassure all airspace users and the general public that the Nigerian airspace shall remain open for all airspace users before, during and after the rescheduled 2019 general elections. “Thus, the agency has put in place appropriate contingency measures to ensure safe flight operations within the period, as well as possible extension of operational hours of any domestic airport when the need arises. “Therefore, airline operators, the travelling public and other service providers who are dependent on the agency’s services, are hereby advised to go ahead with their businesses as usual.”