NONAGENARIAN Afenifere leader Pa Ayo Fasanmi broke his silence yesterday on the reported endorsement of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar by some groups, including a faction of the pan-Yoruba organisation led by Chief Reuben Fasoranti. The Second Republic Senator spoke at the 12,000-capacity Ekiti Parapo Pavilion, Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, where the All Progressives Congress (APC) held a rally for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole dismissed the Fasoranti-led group as “fake”, recalling how Yoruba leaders stood their ground against former military Head of State Gen. Sani Abacha and former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Oshiomhole said: “Pa Ayo Fasanmi, Chief Bisi Akande and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who conquered the Ota farmer in 2003 and 2007 political battle, are the authentic Afenifere who have been elected by the people of Yoruba land. “As we speak today, we are proud that those who can speak as representatives, not self-proclaimed or self-appointed of the Yoruba nation are the governors who are all seated. “They were elected by the people of Yoruba race to guide the present to the future on behalf of the Yoruba people.” Senator Fasanmi described the Reuben Fasoranti-led faction of the group, which endorsed Atiku, as political jobbers, who shouldn’t be ignored. He was echoed by former Osun State governor and former APC interim National Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande. Pa Fasanmi said: “All Yoruba race across Southwest are solidly supporting the President Buhari candidature, except a group of dollar and naira called fake Afenifere who endorsed Atiku Abubakar. “They are people with no electoral value and credence in their respective polling units not to talk of the Yoruba land. “By the grace of God, come March 6 when we would be celebrating 110 years post-humous birthday of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, we would also be celebrating the victory of President Buhari and other APC candidates at the national and state levels.” 