Alphosus Gerald Irona is the deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State. In this interview with CHINYERE OKOROAFOR, he speaks about the readiness of the party for the March 9 election, why an Oguta indigene was considered for the ticket and what he would contribute to the position, if the party wins the contest. YOU are the first Oguta indigene to contest for an executive position in Imo State. What does it mean to you? I see it as a challenge and a call to service to good development. Orlu zone has produced the governor for the past 16 years. Now, we are craving for a power shift to Owerri zone and the governorship candidate was magnanimous enough to con cede the position of the running mate to Orlu zone. I was among the few people that were considered. Based on certain criteria, I was nominated as the running mate. So, first of all, it is a vote of confidence on me. It is also a vote of confidence on my area that we can deliver, because you can’t give such a position to an area you consider to be weak. So, to me, it is a call to service and challenge, considering the fact that our area is the only area that produces oil in Imo State. Our area has also consistently delivered for the PDP in all elections since 1999. So, it is a part of the reward from the party to consider an indigene of Ohaji/Egbema/Oguta and Orlu West in particular and Orlu zone in general for the job. Do you have any previous experience in politics? My service to my people started with my two term role as a councillor in Oguta Local Government. From there, I became the state secretary of the then APP now NNPP. In 1999, I contested for the state constituency from 1999 to 2003. After that role, I served as a transition chairman of Oguta Local Government from 2003 to 2004. From 2004, I contested for the seat of the chairman of Oguta Local Government and succeeded. I was unopposed and therefore was unanimously adopted by all the political parties. I also represented Ohaji/Egbema/Oguta/Orlu West Federal Constituency at the National Assembly from 2011 to 2015. After one term I became the Deputy National Financial Secretary of the PDP. This was my last post before I emerged as the running mate to Hon. Emeka Ihedioha. When I was in the House of Representatives, I championed the exclusion of Imo State from the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). I moved a motion on the floor of the House, calling on the then President Olusegun Obansanjo to include Imo and Abia in the NDDC. I made efforts to call for Oguta meeting. Led by Senator Arthur Nzeribe, some prominent Oguta indigenes, such as Barrister Eze Uyimadu, Ogbuage Oputa Iworisha, among others, joined me to demonstrate at the National Assembly. After this protest, Imo State and Oguta community became part of the NDDC and Hon. Tony Okenwa was nominated to represent us in the NDDC. I want to place it on record that I have never executed or benefitted from the NDDC until today. You will agree with me that there was a time Senator Arthur Nzeribe nominated me as an NDDC Commissioner. But I declined and I was asked to nominate someone else for the job. Subsequently, I nominated Ikechukwu Akeru to represent Imo and Oguta community in the board of the NDDC. Throughout my political career, I have never been indicted, either by my people or the EFCC. I couldn’t have achieved all these without a man I considered as my father, as my mentor and as my leader in the person of Senator Arthur Francis Nzeribe. What is your relationship with the governorship candidate, Ihedioha? We are just party colleagues. He is someone I respect so much. We have a cordial relationship. How prepared is the PDP to challenge APC, APGA, and AA in the election? Power is not given; you only negotiate for power or you take power. We are determined to take over Imo State through democratic means, because the APC has failed the people of Imo State in particular and Nigerians in general. The indices are there to judge. The people of Imo are asking for an alternative and the only credible one is the PDP. It was only the PDP that conducted credible primary, not only in Imo State, but in Nigeria in general. From the state constituency primary, the House of Representatives primary, senatorial primary, governorship and the national convention, the exercise was free and fair. They were transparently done. We have a rebranded PDP where the talk of the day is the performance. What difference would PDP government make when elected? PDP government is going to do things in a different way. We are going to be accountable to the electorate. We believe in the rule of law and we are going to follow due process. Our cardinal principle is the rule of law. We will govern transparently and we will be accountable to the people. How can we be transparent and follow due process? We are going to domesticate the Due Process Act in Imo State. A situation where government awards contract for a road will not be the order of the day. We are also going to domesticate the Public Procurement Act. In the Public Procurement Act, there are processes to award a contract in government in order to be accountable. We are going to domesticate the Freedom of Information Act, so that Imo people can ask questions. What should Imo people expect from the PDP, if voted in? The primary responsibility of every government is to protect lives and properties. We are going to protect the lives of the citizens, because they mean a lot to us. We are going to ensure that our people have access to qualitative education. We are going to ensure that there will be an enabling environment for people to relax. We are going to develop the tourism sector. We have a rich manifesto, which outlines our plan for the growth of Imo State. We have a clear cut definition of what we are going to do. We are not only going to revive education, we will ensure that technical education is given priority. Within the first 100 days in office, we are going to make sure that money meant for technical colleges are channeled towards developing the sector. We shall consider building additional technical colleges. When some people graduate, they go to look for a hand work to do. So, we are going to provide opportunities for our people to fully develop their potentials. Everybody cannot do a white collar job. There are people that are talented. Talking about tourism, Oguta Lake is one of the areas that will be revived. It should be a tourism hub and the present government has not done anything to revive it. Oguta golf course has also been abandoned. You said Senator Nzeribe is your political mentor. What can you say you have learnt from him? A lot! I learnt to negotiate and to recognise when to fight and when to retreat. He also taught me how to invest resources. How prepared is the PDP to take over Imo State in the coming election? What we had in Oguta before is the PDP and the APC, but as I am talking to you, the APC has split into three in Oguta. But in Ohaji/Egbema, it is the Action Alliance (AA) party that is on the ground. The APC is not prepared for election; they are banking on rigging, because they are not campaigning. 