•Fire incidents in INEC’s offices should be probed Although violence has become a common feature of our elections, a more disturbing trend appears to be evolving as offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have been torched in some states. First was the one at Isiala-Ngwa Local Government Area of Abia State where the room storing the uncollected permanent voter cards (PVCs) appeared to be the target. About 2,979 cards were burnt. The situation was the same in Qu’an Pan Local Government office of the electoral commission in Plateau State. By the time the fire was put out, 5,987 cards had been burnt. Also consumed were 380 voting cubicles and 755 ballot boxes, 14 power generating sets and forms to be used for the elections on Saturday. It was the turn of Awka, the Anambra State capital on Tuesday. Whereas the INEC commissioner in charge of publicity had said concerning the two earlier incidents that no card reader machines were destroyed, since the machines were still in the state headquarters where they were being configured and coded, the same was not true of Awka, a state capital where 4,695 machines were lost to the fire. These strange fire incidents only days to the all-important presidential election are a cause for worry. We expected the police and Department of State Security (DSS) to have swung into action and to have made arrests, especially concerning the Isiala-Ngwa incident. This is not a matter to be treated lightly as it is of grave national importance. We refuse to accept the suggestion that the Plateau fire came from a drunk official of the electoral commission. A conclusion should come only after a thorough investigation. We expect that, given the importance, all officials of the INEC local offices would be grilled and technical experts consulted before the truth and the whole truth could be unveiled. It is gratifying that the commission has promised to replace the burnt cards before Saturday. It is heartwarming too that the acting Inspector-General of Police has also instructed the state police commands to beef up security around all INEC offices and facilities nationwide. But, despite the order given on Sunday, there was a more devastating fire outbreak in Awka, that consumed almost 5,000 card readers. It remains to be seen if the commission would be in position to replace so many of the machines within the short period available without exposing the states from which they are being mopped up to shortages. The 2019 presidential election has been marred by violence already before polling. There have been allegations, though unfounded, that INEC is colluding with one political party or the other to manipulate the outcomes. The commission should do everything to ensure that polling is smooth and transparent. Observers, domestic and international, have been fully mobilised and are monitoring every aspect of the elections. As such, the eyes of the world are on Nigeria. We should not fail and this new trend should be immediately nipped in the bud. One lesson INEC should learn from this is the need to produce and distribute the PVCs well ahead of the elections; request for adequate security cover for all offices even during the electioneering campaigns and bond with the community hosting them to see it as a civic responsibility to build a bulwark around the offices. We call on the political parties to call their officials who make inflammatory statements to order to forestall violence in any form before, during and after the February 16 and March 2 elections.