The shortage of adequate water supply would soon be a thing of the past, as the Kano state government has committed the sum of N4.3 billion as counter fund for the execution of sustainable water project, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, under Partnership for Expanded Water Supply Sanitation and Hygiene Programme (PEWASH). Speaking while receiving a delegation of PEWASH, led by its team leader, Abdulhamid Adamu Gwaram, who was in Kano as part of inspection visit on Saturday, the State Commissioner of Water Resources, Alhaji Usman Sule Riruwai said the partnership came at a time when the need for adequate water supply in Kano became imperative. According to him, the Ganduje-led administration had approved the payment of the whole component of the project for the scheme to have effectively taken off in earnest. He said that the sum of N1.3 billion had already been approved for release of the fund as a demonstration of the commitment of the state government in the quest for sustainable and all-encompassing water supply, most especially to rural areas. He however stated that what is currently expected from the project execution partners was for them to ensure that the boreholes to be drilled should be up to the standard for quality assurance, adding that government would find it disappointing to see that the hand pumps drilled got spoiled within a short period of time. According to him, the whopping sum approved by the Ganduje administration, in spite of the dwindling economic situation was a result of the high priority his government attached to the provision of potable drinking water to all the nooks and crannies of the state. Riruwai stressed that the state government was mulling the idea of fulfilling such a huge commitment, knowing the importance of water to humanity Speaking earlier, the team leader of PEWASH team, Gwaram, said they were in Kano to conduct a thorough feasibility study on how the high profile project should be executed to the satisfaction of the beneficiaris. He explained out that with the issue of quality assurance relegated to the background, the aim of providing potable drinking water to the people of Kano would be defeated. He however attributed the failure recorded in seeing to the success of providing adequate drinking water to communities all over the country to sheer indifference on the part of relevant stakeholders who were expected to demonstrate high commitment in that direction. Gwaram noted that the Kano State government under the leadership of governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje deserved all accolades in the area of water supply.