The Nigeria Civil Service Union (NCSU) has asked its members to ensure that governors and other political actors with anti-labour and anti-people tendencies are voted out in the forthcoming general elections. The Union also affirmed the outcome of 25th January, 2018 National Delegates Conference, which elected Comrade Lawrence Amaechi as its president and formally dissolved the caretaker committee put in place as a result of a judgement of the National Industrial Court. Rising from its Special National Delegates Conference, the Union also called on all its members and Nigerian Citizens to vote wisely and rise up in defense of Democracy. The National Industrial Court of Nigeria had ordered the immediate past leadership of the Union to take back the leadership of the union, an action which was complied with, before the leadership formally stepped down following the expiration of their tenure and a caretaker committee put in place, while the union went to appeal the judgement. The Special National Delegates Conference also confirmed the appointment of Comrade Idris Yahaya Ndayako as the substantive general Secretary of the union. In a communique jointly signed by the President Comrade Lawrence Amaechi and general Secretary Comrade Yahaya Ndayako, the Union commended the commitment of NLC leadership in ensuring that the new minimum wage of N30. 000 is passed into law. The conference also elected Comrade Kabiru Gaya as the new national auditor of the union, following the resignation of Comrade Aliyu Mutazu who had retired from the Civil Service of Katsina state. The communique said “On the other hand Special National Delegates’ Conference reiterates NEC’s directive that an impostor and notorious criminals, Mr. M. Z. Nzidee who had been since expelled from the Union must be prosecuted from wherever he is presently hiding for his recent act of hooliganism; culminating into vandalisation of the National Secretariat, stealing huge sums of money and molesting Staff of the Union with his collaborators. “Special NDC decried the activities of Nigeria Politicians as relates the February 2019 General Elections, particularly on their Campaign strategies. “Conference reiterated its position that Governors that are Anti-Labour and anti-People must be voted against. It further called on all its members and Nigerian Citizens to vote wisely in defense of Democracy
“The NEC-in-Session passed a vote of Confidence on the National Leadership of the Union led by Comrade Amaechi L. U.  for its commitment, initiatives and purposeful Leadership since assumption of leadership of the Union”.