There is a crack in the Benue State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Its leadership appeared divided over funds released for the presidential and National Assembly elections. It was learnt that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) postponed the elections to save APC in Benue State from recording a heavy defeat at last Saturday’s polls. The state’s APC stakeholders were in an expanded meeting yesterday at City Bay Park in Makurdi, the state capital, to address contending issues. The Nation investigation revealed that on the eve of the elections, APC leaders disbursed funds at the Makurdi home of the Director General of Jime-Ode Campaign Organisation, Chief Tilley Gyado. Some key party chieftains were alleged side-lined. Sources said a “cabal” within the state APC family outsmarted others and shared the funds among its members. The development was said to have resulted in bad blood and divided loyalty, which pushed some members to vow to work against the party at the postponed polls. At yesterday’s meeting, the aggrieved members reportedly stated their grievances and urged the party’s State Leader, Senator George Akume, to henceforth take charge of logistics ahead of Saturday’s polls to avoid another conflict. Most APC stakeholders expressed dissatisfaction with the way some party chieftains hijacked its affairs and made it a “one-man show”. A party chieftain from Otukpo, Peter Ogwuche, said the APC campaign in Benue State was being managed like a cult. He said: “There is no publicity. You don’t even see journalists around them. No one got to know of APC presence in Benue State.” Ogwuche said a national newspaper was right to have predicted that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would win in Benue State because APC members appeared bent on going after campaign funds. He added that INEC’s postponement of the polls seemed to be a divine intervention. Attempts to speak with the State Chairman of the party, Comrade Abba Yaro, were unsuccessful. He was reportedly still consulting with other party bigwigs at the stakeholders’ meeting. The meeting was still holding last night and journalists were sent out of the hall.