Afam Mallinson Ukatu, Managing Director/Chief Executive, NISPO Nigeria Limited, an indigenous tile manufacturing company. In this interview with Charles Okonji he speaks on the challenges of multiple taxation, rising energy cost, amongst other sundry issues. Excerpts: What motivated you to go into the production of tiles and other sanitary hardware? Life is like the five speed gear car, and most times we don’t use it, and why we don’t use it is because we think we don’t have the need, when the roads are rough, and sometimes you will not use it to go the place where you need to go. Going into manufacturing is not what I didn’t plan to do, though, it came up earlier than planned because of certain issues we do have in terms of clearing, in terms of shipping companies, in terms of other infrastructures that have not been put in place. Such as the situation today where it will take you up to three weeks to one month before you can clear your goods out of the harbor. And the cost of not just the clearing has gone up, but the cost of transportation has gone up from N70,000 where it used to be to take a container from the sea port (Tincan Island) or Apapa seaport to the same neighborhood of Lagos to between N350,000 – N450,000. It is obvious that the cost of local transport from one end to the same Lagos has gone up more than what you paid as freight from china to Nigeria. It is unbelievable. So all these issues and logistics are what we cannot just sit down and be looking at as if nothing is going wrong.  So, with that, our mind set become volatile that we have to do something different from what we used to do, which is the importation of tiles and other building materials. So, I thought of doing something better, that can create jobs, and that can put food on their tables. It was not easy going into manufacturing because that is why we are where we are today to see how we can get it done and get it done right. How many years have you put in production? The first year, we started with our plastic manufacturing, which is 13 years today, and we have been in tiles manufacturing for 10 years. We have also divested into pharmaceutical manufacturing. It means that it takes a little more time for us to achieve our objectives and our goals. So that is what the economy and infrastructure has pushed us to. The speed could have been faster than what it is today, but there is absolutely nothing we could do by staying aloof, though, we have not met up with the speed, but we are still moving. How were you able to build your brand into international repute? The first pilot plant we did on tiles was our own money. We started with our own pilot plant and we didn’t want to make it so big to enable us test run the factory with the manufacturing of tiles on a small note in the pilot plant. But while we were progressing, we needed to expand, so we approached commercial banks and we were given some loans, but the loans we got from commercial banks attracted very high interest rate which was close to thirty percent and we couldn’t do it. Luckily for us the Bank of Industry (BOI) had some intervention funds and we approached BOI and they bought our facilities over and gave us some intervention funds to expand our factory, and it was a good job done by BOI that they were able to rescue us, what could have been a collapse of our business. So, BOI did well in the aspect of the intervention given to us when we needed it most. How much was the facility from BOI? The intervention funds accessed from BOI was N1 billion, and we were able to secure the loan and we managed it to enable us pay back the facilities. We are again doing another expansion on the tiles factory, and BOI is still there for us and we are doing everything humanly possible to get it right. What are the challenges you faced while trying to build this business? The challenges we are facing in Nigeria are numerous, they are majorly the infrastructural problems, but the first is that of power. Power is the heart of manufacturing. If there is no power, there is nothing one can do to get to where you want to be. The next big problem we are facing is roads and another very bad tale that we can tell today that of the roads in Agbara industrial lay out. The roads are in a very deplorable condition, such that all the industries in that area that are paying taxes and numerous government levies are being neglected to a point that you keep wondering if the government really want this country to move ahead. So, this is the highest area that we are having issues. As a result of this, many manufacturers have been forced into looking at other areas of generating power for their production. What are your alternative power solutions? Our own type of manufacturing is a little different from other forms of manufacturing, because in tiles manufacturing, you need to have constant supply of power for 24 hours. It is not just 24 hours light that you will have, but you will be able to build up your furnace to a certain degrees before you start production. Obviously if we are running our generator today, on our natural gas, which we are using shell as our own source of gas supply. Absolutely, there is no way you can turn off your gas generation for one minute, which means that it has to be on for 364 days in a year. The worst of it all is that each time there is a short-down, it takes about 10 days to start production, and for those 10 days it will take before you re-start your production, you will be paying your bills. It takes 10 days because you need to heat up your furnace to the required temperature before you can start with your production. The simple example is that when you put on your iron to iron your cloth, you must wait for some minutes for the iron to heat up to enable you do the ironing. So you cannot just put on the furnace and start working immediately, you must allow it to heat to about 1240 degree, which will take between 8 – 10 days. Obviously, this is wastage to us. So, any time power is short in supply, or vandalisation of pipeline and the gas were shut-down, we are losing money, not just on the money we are paying to our workers for not working but also for losing like 10 day in one month, you can imagine the colossal waste of money due to the problem that is not caused by us. Though, we thank God that there have been improvement on gas supply lately as the government and Shell are trying to make sure that we would not be experiencing shortage in the gas supply. Also, even when they give us enough notice before they can shut-down for maintenance, we are still losing because it will take us 10 days to restart production. The ideal thing is for them to consider special factories like ours that cannot thrive without light, to see how they can take it up to compensate us when there is shut-down. How would you describe your experience with multiplicities of taxes that is prevalent in the manufacturing industry? If the government does not look into the issue of multiple taxations and harmonise it as quickly as possible, many more manufacturers would shut-down. The situation has deteriorated to the extent that tax authorities shut down factories because of tax default, but what I do ask them is that if you shut down a factory because they have not paid tax, and all their worker are on the street, where are they going to get money to pay the tax? Government should look into multiple taxation and vat. I have always agued which is also a known fact that taxes are being paid on your turnover, but what of a situation where a manufacturer is losing money. It is obvious that a manufacturer produces and still losses money and you are still expected to pay your tax. There should be a system whereby you are evaluated by the tax authorities just like China, USA and other countries. There is what they keep as special rebate for manufacturing companies, because this is what encourages people to go into manufacturing. Without manufacturing, there wouldn’t be any way to for high rate of unemployment to reduce. Government can only provide about 10 percent of the total job requirement of the population, manufacturing can generate over 60 – 70 percent of the needed employment. What advice do you have for new entrants into the tiles manufacturing business? I will encourage them to know that there is huge market for the product. There is no time that you would enter into this business that you will not make profit. It is a matter of being focused and determined. For instance I started with my pilot plant and my target was to produce 3,000 square meters, and we got some people who had been into tiles manufacturing to give us the technical know-how, when we started, the machines brought to us were unable to do what we expected, and we were produce between 1,800 – 2,000 square meters a day, which is contrary to our expectation, but we were able to break through with that, because there was no tiles manufacturer then, apart from the two that have been in existence in the past 20 years. So for that, the small ones were able to survive, while the big ones were still doing their business. So, I will encourage the young entrepreneurs coming up not to be afraid of what the future holds for them. The most important thing is that you have to work hard as an entrepreneur to be in the system, and one day, the opportunity would come for you to expand. Starting a business with huge amount of money is not the issue, because some people started big but could not make it while some others started with little, today; they are big employers of labour. So, the story of how much you started with or how much you are going to start with is just a mindset. What has the patronage been, in terms of buy made-in-Nigeria? When you have a good product, people come looking for you, no matter where the product is. Like I have always said that when you buy something you know where it is produced, you will have a testimony to give, and the testimony is that made in Nigeria products in some items are much of better higher quality than the imported items. We have instances of some products made in Nigeria that people prefer. So I will advise the local manufacturers to live up to expectations because as long as you have a name, you must protect that name. This is because when you sell a substandard product, the customers must surely come back to since they know where it is coming from. So, you must have to protect your name by doing the right thing and maintaining a high standard. The quality of made in Nigeria products have improved so much that quality control is the watch word of the manufacturers. Our stories would shock you. For instance, a customer brought some cartons to us to label our tiles made in Italy because of the quality, but we refused, because we want to promote the quality of made in Nigeria products, to enable us sell it in other West African countries. We have exported to Ghana, Cameroon, Senegal, Lomé, Republic of Benin and a host of others. So it is absolutely impossible for us to label our product made in Italy, which would be giving credit to other nations on our own expense. If our quality is not as good as it is, nobody would have been tempted to ask us to label our goods made in Italy. The second one is that someone bought some tiles from us and added some extra square meters to augment the anticipated brakeage, but he returned the 20 square meters which he had earlier budgeted to for replacement of damages. What this means is that our product is more resistant to breakages as it is manufactured to suit the Nigerian environment. So, this is what the customer said he has been doing whenever he bought imported items, but he brought back 20 cartons to us as he did not record a single damage. This means that what we are doing is right and the product is right. But one of our major challenges is that transportation for the West African cost is not well connected. That is why we are unable to do much export because the cost of transportation to countries like Kenya is more than what they are getting from China. This is because there is no availability of vessels going straight from Nigeria to Kenyan. There is no ocean liner that is plying the West African sub-region, and even the African sub-region, so, how do you expect the prices to be the same? For instance, for you to ship goods to Ghana, the ship would have to go to South Africa, before coming to Ghana, you can imagine the cost and time involved.