To improve reading, a group, Making Orumba Great Again (MOGA), has organised Readers’ Challenge, in collaboration with the Alumni Association of Federal College of Education (Technical), Umunze, Anambra State. The event, held at Dr Alex Ekwueme auditorium main campus of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Umunze, attracted secondary school pupils from Orumba North and South local government areas of the state, as well as from other parts of the country. MOGA President Mr Victor Okoli and the President, College Alumni Association, Mrs Ugwu Laeticia Udodiri, noted that the contest was aimed at awakening and promoting reading among youths. Okoli said: “Readers’ Challenge is an offshoot of MOGA and it is targeted at revamping the reading culture of youths in Orumba South and Orumba North. “It is crystals, clear that when people read, they are educated and education is the most powerful weapon with which we can change the world, starting from Orumba South and Orumba North  Local Government Area, Anambra State.” He continued: “The Reader’s Challenge was divided into two categories: Young Stars Category  (11-17) and Youth Category  (18-25). This year, in the young stars’category, they read Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe for six hours with a break,  after which they wrote an exam based on the book that they read. ‘’In the youth category, they read Anthill of the Savannah by Chinua Achebe for six hours with a break after which they wrote an exam based on the book they read. The first position for each category will go home with N50,000, the second N30,000 and the third  N20,000 and cash prizes. ‘’Participation in the competition was free and over 170 participants took the examination.” In his keynote address, Professor Gershon Ejeckam stated that education is the bedrock of any nation. According to him, any nation that neglects education, neglects the future of its youth and, consequently, the future of the nation. He urged the youth to cultivate the habit of reading as academics remain the custodians of knowledge, hence advancement in the society. Continuing, he said: “The solution lies in the youth re-evaluating their values, their mission and their vision and accepting their responsibility to the society and the government recognising the problem and ensuring a sound and robust policy to carter for youth development and advancement of our country.” On the choice of career, he advised the students to choose a career that fits their temperament, skills and personality, to get equipped for great opportunities. Earlier, Federal College of Education (Technical), Umunze Provost Dr Tessy Okoli called for concerted efforts to revive the reading culture, enhance writing skills and acquire knowledge that will serve the country well. She urged the youth to take advantage of the knowledge, information and education available in books even as she commended the organizers for making out time on impacting on young stars. Winners in the senior category are: first position, Marah Bright Ifechukwu, a pupil of Unizik in affiliation with FCET Umunze; second, Okoyeocha Ifeanyichukwu, a pupil of University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), and third, Ibekwe Favour Ozioma, a pupil of FCET Umunze. For Junior category, Agba Makuochukwu Jacinta, a pupil of Community Secondary School, Owerre-Ezukala, second position, Chigozie Akachukwu Precious, a pupil of Ezira Community Secondary School and third position, Isaac Jacinta Oluebube, a pupil of Madonna Girls secondary school, Umunze.