THE Lagos State Civil Service has helped to reduce waste and boost productivity, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has said. He said this was partly the result of the huge investments in knowledge and skills by his administration. Ambode spoke during a training  tagged: ‘Effective management strategies for repositioning and higher responsibilities” organised by the ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions in Lagos. Amobode, represented by the Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Dr. Akintola Benson, said the importance of eliminating waste could not be over-emphasised. He noted that studies had shown that with better management of time and resources, meagre resources could produce results. In other words, the goverrnor, added, organisations and individuals can achieve more with less. Ambode said: ‘’Just like other governments, we want to deliver better education, health care, pensions, and transportation services because they know that impatient electorate expect to see change, and fast. ‘’ He said the participants should have improved skills and enhanced capacities to improve the capacity of the civil service. “The state wants workers to embrace a lean culture approach to projects and other establishments’ matters. I believe that the training will make the civil service more productive, efficient, and goal-oriented. Ultimately, it will make the  civil service more suited to support the government to realise its core objective of promoting and enhancing the social and infrastructural objectives of the good people of the state. “The team work and synergy hold the key to maximum and ultimate performance. There are some who underestimate the value and importance of synergy and team work. Synergy is everywhere in nature. Synergies are not only about cost reduction. Synergies can be access to markets, exchange of products, avoiding overlaps, and exchange of best practices. “Also, since the onset of the great recession, ‘doing more with less’ has become a policy mantra. However, this mantra has not translated into actual implementable policies in most segments of the public service in Nigeria. I believe that the impact of rapidly-changing economic and technological landscape has made government’s task of delivering public service more complex. More than ever before, governments all over the world have increasingly come under serious public scrutiny and fiscal pressure to deliver better outcomes to citizens, and to do so more efficiently. “As is evident, Nigeria has not been spared from this in recent times. On the one hand, the dynamism presented by the impact of the interaction of economic, technological and other superintending elements in these scenarios have no doubt made governments’ public service delivery duties onerous. On the other hand, however, it has also opened up opportunities for the exploration of out-of-the-box strategies that governments can adopt if found to better the lot of their citizens.” Ambode said fhe funds required to meet such expectations were enormous, especially in developed economies where populations are aging and the public sector’s productivity hasn’t kept pace with that of the private sector. “The need to get value for money from governments at all levels is, therefore, under the spotlight as never before. But cost-cutting programmes that seek savings of  one to three per cent a year will not be enough and in some cases, may even weaken the quality of service,” he added. 