Management of the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) has threatened students, who refuse to pay their school fees before the deadline with ‘no payment no lecture’ policy. The information was contained in a Memorandum signed by the Acting Registrar, Mrs. Olayinka Adeniran-Ajayi, last week. The university management had earlier directed all returning and fresh students to pay up their sundry fees on or before Sunday, albeit with short notice. The memo read in part: “The school management reiterateds that failure to comply with the directive will attract payment of a penalty fee of Five Thousand Naira from Monday, 25th February to Sunday, 10th March 2019 and continued failure to comply may lead to forfeiture of studentship.” Furthermore, management warned that it would enforce the directive, adding that only students with evidence of payment of school fees would be allowed into lecture halls. The memo urged all students to ensure strict compliance of the information. The school’s Students Union President, Awodola Oluwaseun, aka Unique, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE,  reiterated the commitment of his government to students’ welfare, urging his colleagues to keep paying before the stipulated deadline. “Our students should keep paying the fee. We are not blind to any issue on ground. The same way we have been supportive in helping every single situation on ground. When the time comes, we will cross the bridge and we won’t keep mute about the welfare of students” Attempts to reach the Dean of Students Affairs, Dr Dosu Malomo, for comments proved abortive. anagement of the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) has threatened students, who refuse to pay their school fees before the deadline with ‘no payment no lecture’ policy. The information was contained in a Memorandum signed by the Acting Registrar, Mrs. Olayinka Adeniran-Ajayi, last week. The university management had earlier directed all returning and fresh students to pay up their sundry fees on or before Sunday, albeit with short notice. The memo read in part: “The school management reiterateds that failure to comply with the directive will attract payment of a penalty fee of Five Thousand Naira from Monday, 25th February to Sunday, 10th March 2019 and continued failure to comply may lead to forfeiture of studentship.” Furthermore, management warned that it would enforce the directive, adding that only students with evidence of payment of school fees would be allowed into lecture halls. The memo urged all students to ensure strict compliance of the information. The school’s Students Union President, Awodola Oluwaseun, aka Unique, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE,  reiterated the commitment of his government to students’ welfare, urging his colleagues to keep paying before the stipulated deadline. “Our students should keep paying the fee. We are not blind to any issue on ground. The same way we have been supportive in helping every single situation on ground. When the time comes, we will cross the bridge and we won’t keep mute about the welfare of students” Attempts to reach the Dean of Students Affairs, Dr Dosu Malomo, for comments proved abortive.