Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has urged the media to help avoid violence in the General Elections draw closer. Lalong spoke on Monday last week in Jos, Plateau State at the UNDP capacity building workshop for media group on conflict sensitive reportage ahead of 2019 General Election. The governor, who was represented by the Director-General Research and Documentation, Prof. John Wade, noted that media role was to success of election of any country. He stressed the need for media practitioners and journalists to present their reports in such a way that would not fan the fires of conflict. “Conflict sensitive reportage for media organisations and journalists is not only apt but timely considering the fact that we are in the season and threshold of electioneering campaigns. “And, there is an urgent need for politicians to conduct themselves in line with certain values that will make them become better leaders in the overall interest of the country. “Covering an election requires greater analytical depth and skills to report on it without engendering violence or overlooking peace building opportunities,” he said. According to him, reporter must therefore be above board and truly professional in his coverage and reportage. “The importance of conflict sensitive reportage in a period of elections in our value system and attitudinal reawakening cannot be over emphasised, given the fact that good or bad reporting can make or mar an election. “Conflict sensitive reportage constitutes the traditional role of journalism, as far as the agenda-setting is concerned. “Elections are often prone to violence and so in reporting elections, the media and journalists are expected to present their report in  such a way as not to fan the fires of conflict,” he said. According to him, as professionals, media practitioners owe the public the responsibility of self-censoring reportage to avoid vitriolic sentiment. “This is even most critical as during elections, tension are often high among contending political parties, hence the public can only make well informed decisions, based on the accuracy and quality of the stories disseminated by the media. “In this critical period of electioneering, as media organisations and journalists, you must continuously strive to redefine a new value system. “This based on God’s desire for us to love one another, serve one another, and be honest to one another; else, we will be shadows in our quest for objective reportage, sanity and greatness,” he said. According to him, it is indeed, a known fact that electoral violence or conflict usually triggers greater challenges for journalists, particularly when opposing sides seek to control the media. “Information can be unreliable or censored. This worsened by the old journalism adage that ‘he who pays pipers dictate the tune’. Media owner may want to dictate for journalist on how and what they should report,” he said. The UNDP Nigeria Acting resident representative, Betty Wabunoha, also urged media practitioners  to ensure that their reports do not incite violence. Wabunoha called on reporters to ensure an open and diverse media that can provide balanced and impartial coverage and equitable access for competing candidates and parties during the forthcoming election. According to her, in conflict sensitive electoral environments, the media holds the key to prevention of election related conflicts from occurring and escalating. She noted that this could only be possible through carefully calculated reporting of events around elections. Wabunoha said that the media also play crucial role in enabling citizens make informed choices as well as fostering peace, especially where there are election related disputes. She said that the call became imperative based on the fact that voters and candidates rely heavily on access to the media to both impact and receive information. “The media has a unique role to play as both the conveyor and recipient of information. “It does not only have an essential watchdog function that increases the transparency and accountability of the process, it also, if responsibly and appropriately used, helps strengthen the democratic process and contribute to a more credible and inclusive election,” she said. Over 160 Journalists from the six north-central states were taught on conflict sensitive reportage over a period of three days. At the end of the capacity building workshop, journalists were enjoined to present factual, balanced and accurate reportage of the 2019 elections in addition to reporting it with a positive mindset. 