•We reject the claim that Nigeria is not ripe for smartphone making THE report that Africa’s biggest economy, and indisputably its biggest smartphone market, is not ripe for foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of mobile phones to set up manufacturing plants locally, although unsettling, is not entirely surprising. According to The Punch in a report, not only are Samsung and Nokia – two foremost players in the global smart phone manufacturing scene – not coming into the country anytime soon, they may have “abandoned their plans to establish factories in Nigeria, citing entry barriers into the market as the problem.” The newspaper quoted the Chief Executive Officer, Samsung Electronics Africa, Mr Sung Yoon, during a visit to Lagos last year as saying “that the company would not establish a factory in Nigeria due to its low market share, infrastructural deficit and grey market in the country”. The paper also quoted James Rutherfoord, Vice-President /Managing Director, Nokia West and Central Africa in 2013 as saying that the idea of establishing a phone factory in the country did not make any economic sense, although he acknowledged that Nigeria was its strategic market on the continent. “At this point in time, it is a difficult one because most of our component suppliers, all the people that make chips, batteries and all the other components of the devices are not around here. They are all in the Far East. So it’s very difficult to create a factory very far away from them. “We need the whole ecosystem of people producing the components to be very close; otherwise, we will have products that cost higher, he said.” We understand that the constraints of infrastructure are certainly daunting enough. And this even without the additional burden of putting together a complex manufacturing operation in an environment where basic science, engineering and technology infrastructure is virtually non-existent, and where the petrochemical industry to supply a vast range of basic industrial raw materials is still largely underdeveloped. It is hard to conceive of a manufacturing operation let alone a globally competitive one as smartphone manufacturing in an environment with no ready pool of highly skilled workers to be drawn from when needed, or a reliable logistical system in place. And all of these with additional challenges posed by cheap, oftentimes fake or substandard products that readily abound in our markets, and to cap them all, a port system riddled with corruption and inefficiency. s The problems, certainly not new, have come to define the nation’s industrial/manufacturing environment. This is therefore a clarion call on the government to begin to address them in a systematic and sustainable manner. An environment where all manner of smart phones are allowed entry into the country almost without restriction, and without regards to standards, is unlikely to encourage investors to put their money. That has to stop. Moreover, nearly 18 years since the launch of GSM in Nigeria, it is high time the Federal Government took deliberate steps to ensure domestic production of smartphones, or at the very least, some of the basic components. Admittedly, an increasing number of local players have not only taken interest in manufacturing locally but have shown promises that, with the right policies and incentives in place, they can hold their own against some of the so-called big names. The least the government can do is to encourage them. And this is without prejudice to discussions with foreign OEMs also eager to have a slice of our vast market. With a mix of sound policies and incentives, there is a chance of getting some of those planning to exit to reconsider their plans. 