•The Federal Government breaks ice on tracking vessels, and it is great thing The Muhammadu Buhari administration seems to have put redemptive finger on one of the most contentious issues of the day. It has decided to do a forensic investigation and tracking of the movement of oil. If successful, it will be close to a revolution in oil in this country and a high mark for accountability. According to the minister of state for petroleum resources, Ibe Kachikwu, the step is a bulwark against corruption and opaque dealings in Nigeria’s prime resource and revenue earner. Said he: “For the first time, whatever you are producing in this country, as per when it is being produced – barrel for barrel -, we can tell. We can also tell where it is going to for the purpose of discharge.” He explained that the policy is a sort of camera on every crude product from origin of tapping to its final point. So, like godfather, the Federal Government will not sleep but follow the oil flow by flow, drop by drop and barrel by barrel, around the country. It is an ambitious policy. According to Kachikwu, “one of the things that they (Department of Petroleum Resources) have been able to set up, which they are finalising now, is a forensic analysis that shows you things. We can see every vessel for the first time that comes into Nigeria. We can see their activities.” The incidence of round-tripping, roguishness and lack of transparency of what has become known as the oil cartel has leached on the nation’s revenue. Round-tripping, which is itself a product of the failure of our country to refine its own crude oil, has turned into a dubious gold mine for oil importers. It has become not only an economic issue but also a political controversy. This is because the business persons have been ripping the nation off in the name of subsidies. The amount has been growing from year to year; and efforts and grandstanding by administrations, including the Buhari government, to rid the nation of this burden have fallen on the rocks. For instance, only in 2018, the report had it that the cost of subsidy grew from N774 million daily to N2.4 billion between March and May. It is also amazing that the cost has been growing steadily since 2006, when the cost was N261 billion. Between that year and 2011, it had soared to N673 billion a year. In the five years, Nigeria paid N3.6 trillion. The landing cost of refined oil has been put at N204 per litre, and the pump price N145 per litre. The subsidy is the difference. The charge by critics and observers of the industry is that some of the vessels move from one place to another and claim landing costs several times. That means they claim to berth and claim landing costs a number of times. Fraudulent claims go unnoticed because they collude with government and port officials to wipe out of memory the wrongs and circumlocutions of the vessel owners and salt away billions of cheap Nigerian money. The Federal Government is not doing this alone. It is partnering with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to monitor and criminalise such frauds. Kachikwu said “vessels go to a location to pick a million barrels, then they go somewhere else, then they come back to the location when they should be heading to Porto Novo or the United States.” The partnership with the EFCC will allow the government to document date every month on individual vessel and track their movements on the high seas and ports. More ambitiously, he said the policy will also go to the downstream sector. This is an extraordinary policy, and we hope the Federal Government will pursue it with extraordinary resolve.