The Minister, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello, has commiserated with members of FCT council of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) over the death of their three colleagues in two months, describing the deaths as  losses to  journalism. Bello, who was at the council secretariat in Utako, Abuja, on a condolence visit, said the three fallen journalists were friends of the administration. The minister presented letters of condolence on behalf of the FCT administration, to the council chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Ogbeche, for transmission to the families of the deceased journalists: Grace Nwodo, aka Madam Waka of Love FM; Olajide Fashikun of Gong News and Chris Edoga of FRCN, all of the FCT council, who died between late December 2018 and January 2019. Bello, who was accompanied to the event by the Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Umar Gambo Jibrin, expressed disappointment at the state of the secretariat, used the occasion to also assure the Council that all hindrances to the completion of the FCT NUJ Secretariat have been cleared and that the contractor would mobilize to site for the speedy completion of the secretariat complex in a couple of weeks. “I am surprised that the building is still like this because I thought that by now it would have progressed more than this. But, I assure you that in the next two weeks, the contractor will be mobilised to site to complete at least the first phase because we agreed that the complex will be completed in phases. I can also assure you that when the first phase is completed, the building will be more benefitting than any other in the country,” he said. Ogbeche thanked the minister for his  support to the council, especially in his efforts to ensure the speedy completion of the Council’s secretariat. He lamented the lack of a befitting secretariat for the council and the slow pace of work at the site, calling on the Minister to make good his promised to complete the secretariat complex. Ogbeche also called on the Minister to provide the Council with buses for conveying members to and from union events as well as for sustainable investments that would take the union to the next level. A former Chairman of Council, Comrade Jacob Edi, commended the minister for his accessibility and purposefulness. He expressed confidence that the minister would  fulfil his promise of ensuring the completion of the FCT NUJ Complex which, according to him, should be befitting of the status of the Federal Capital Territory. Highlight of the occasion was a tour of the uncompleted secretariat complex by the Minister, accompanied by the FCT Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka C. Ohaa and other management staff of the FCTA, the Executive Secretary, FCDA, U.G Jibrin and members of the FCT NUJ. 