Micro pension has become an invaluable tool to bridge the terrible deficit in financial inclusion that exists in the larger number of the unstructured Nigerian population, the informal sector, the Managing Director, IEI-Anchor Pension Funds Glory Etaduovie, has said. He made this known in a statement made available to journalists in Lagos. Etaduovie expressed worry over heightening challenge of social security in the country. He pointed out that as people age, increasing fears and concerns of what the future offers come to the fore. He stated that for those in more structured environments, responsible employers think and put in place an internal plan to help ageing and retiring staff to settle down to a secure retirement. He observed that key government parastatals such as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), among others are enviable places to retire. He said other government organisations similarly enjoy some guarantees but not robust structures for retirement. He lauded PenCom’s role in facilitating this financial inclusion through the micro pension plans. He said: “Major and structured financial, oil and gas and some manufacturing and private sector organisations have done fairly well, too, in pension provision.However, the larger number of the unstructured Nigerian population remain not catered for. They are left to chance and limits of their knowledge and capacity to deal with the challenges and vagaries of getting old. Ironically, we are all affected, because they are our uncles and aunties; brothers and sisters; fathers and mothers who now lean on us for family pension plans (if any), or handouts of stipends that cater for only a few days, and back to square one. Ageing becomes undignified. Health and maintenance remain a critical issue of ageing. The current working population is thus under siege. There are endless requests for support here and there. Sadly, this has also promoted corruption – greed apart. “Financial inclusion is total. Total in the sense that this philosophy drags in the so-called underprivileged or low income segment into the opportunities and exposures that financial world offers. A lot of people are shut of a world of opportunities the financial sector offers to enhance their present and future lives. Though beyond pension only, this platform now sucks them in through their cluster bodies to expose them to the knowledge and benefits of not only pension plans, but puts them into a community of people who can tap into other benefits accrue-able to cluster bodies. This thus makes up for short falls of individual small businesses access to comprehensive financial services available to all. This of course leads to empowerment and economic growth and development. “PenCom has done well so far. It is a new learning needing to be domiciled. They have had to wade through un-structured parts to create in-routes for industry path and public assimilation and integration. Change pioneering and buy-ins are amongst most difficult things to achieve. This is through the micro pension plans. It is for individual professionals, artisans, retail or individual entrepreneurs, farmers, among others. It captures the unstructured working environment. It is not necessarily micro by way of income. Micro as a name might just be for want of a better name.” Speaking on IEI-ANCHOR Pensions preparedness on the micro plan, he said the company has put in place internal structures, adding that they also closely monitor the regulator’s ‘dance’ steps and domiciling same in our company. “Staffing and a robust ICT network is being enhanced. Remember that, those in the micro pension sector constitute no less than 60 per cent of the population. There is also a growing tilt towards increasing entrepreneurial drive, as the direct jobs are decreasing. It is thus a larger untapped market. “It is important to develop people-friendly products to both attract them and accommodate their sensitivities. We are working at that. Reaching out to them and educating them is of paramount importance. The mode of achieving this is very important as well. It has to be both creative and sensitive. We are noting all of these”, he noted.