The Nigerian Army has said that no town in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States have been taken over by the Boko Haram terrorists. The Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel  Onyema Nwachukwu said in a statement that it was untrue a report by an online medium that a town has been taken over by the terrorists. Colonel Nwachukwu lamented the report was not only misleading, but that it has created panic among the people. The statement reads: ” the attention of Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE has been drawn to a misleading news story on Sahara Reporters website, posted on 4th February 2019, alleging that Boko Haram terrorists have taken over four towns in Adamawa State. This is not true. “Contrary to Sahara Reporters’ claims in that online story,  the Headquarters Theatre Command wishes to inform the general public that the said publication is untrue and a far cry from the reality on ground in Adamawa state. “Categorically, no town in Adamawa, Borno or Yobe state is under the control of the insurgents. Unfortunately, the alarming publication has generated undue panic amongst the general public and therefore needs to be addressed. “In straightening the records, troops were alerted to an attack on Shuwa by Boko Haram terrorists who had infiltrated  the village through Karchinga on a looting mission, to which the troops of 143 Battalion swiftly responded by moblising themselves to Shuwa village, where they fiercely engaged the insurgents in combat and successfully repelled the attack and curtailed the incursion. “The troops, who recovered one Hand Grenade and 6 rounds of Anti Aircraft ammunition after the encounter are currently holding grounds in Shuwa village, while some elements of the Battalion are exploiting further in pursuit of the fleeing insurgents. “Sadly, before the arrival of troops to the location, the insurgents had killed 3 persons, looted and torched a shop, a health care centre and a local market. “It is pertinent to further inform that calm has been restored in Shuwa village, while  Madagali,  Michika, Gulak and Baza towns remain peaceful and firmly under control of the troops. “Our hearts go out in deep sympathy to those who fell during the attack and those who have been affected in one way or the other by the incident. “We, however, urge Sahara Reporters to desist from its alarming and sensationalized reportage to avoid panic.”