Kano state Police Command is deploying no fewer than 20,000 security personnel to secure the 484 wards in 44 Local Government Areas in Saturday’s presidential and senatorial election in the state. The deployment is to ensure a peaceful conduct of the polls as well as protect the lives and property of the citizens of the state. Briefing reporters at the Command Headquarters on the preparations on Friday, the commissioner of Police Mr. Wakili Mohammed, said 15,000 specially trained police officers and 5,000 sister organizations would be drafted for the election. Wakili, warned that anyone caught with weapons, during the elections, would be arrested and prosecuted according to the provisions of the law. According to him, voters should vote for any candidate of their choice, stressing that, the election is not a war, but for the election to be credible. He maintained his men are ready to ensure a peaceful conduct of the election, promising that his men will protect all voters, asking as they conduct themselves in a peaceful and orderly manner. “We want the voting to start peacefully and end peacefully am calling on the good people of Kano to cooperate with security agencies to ensure peaceful conduct of the election. Mohammed also warned that nobody is authorized to come to the polling station, with dangerous weapons, as anybody caught would be dealt with, so as to serve as deterrent t others, whose mission is to cause disorder to scuttle the elections. Meanwhile, in a Press Conference held at NUJ Press Centre, the spokesperson of South-African based election observer body, Pan African Women’s Project, Belinda Maduna, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its level of preparedness ahead of the elections. Accordingly to her, representatives of the body have been on ground for the last 48 hours, “and we are Impressed. INEC is doing a wonderful job here in Kano. We have seen the staff working round the clock to ensure that all the election materials get to the designated places on time.” She further appealed to INEC to ensure smooth conduct of the elections, “our expectations are large. We expect credible, peaceful, free and fair elections.” Belinda also appealed to security agencies to remain committed to peaceful conduct of the elections, adding that, “we are appealing to security agencies to be honourable and perform their duties deligently. They should not intimidate voters. They should be friendly to the electorate and ensure their safety during the elections.” Belinda also advised politicians to desist from vote-buying and other forms of electoral crime, urging them not to allow their supporters to carry arms or engage in snatching of ballot boxes and other electoral crimes during the elections. She, however, advised Kano electorate to troop out en mass and vote candidates of their choice, adding that, “it is the right of every Nigerian eligible voter to go out there tomorrow and vote for candidates of their choice.”