President Muhammadu Buhari was at the Situation Room of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Headquarters in Abuja early yesterday. It was his first port of call after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared him winner of the Saturday 23 Presidential Election at 4.38am. His mission was to show appreciation to leaders of the APC and to caution them against gloating over electoral victory and humiliating opponents. He reminded that the victory of the party at the presidential election should be enough compensation for their efforts. The President arrived at the secretariat around 5.19am. Buhari was declared winner by INEC Chairman Prof Mahmood Yakubu, who said he scored 15,191,847 votes to defeat his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) challenger, Atiku Abubakar, who polled 11,262,978. The President thanked Nigerians for electing him for the next four years. He, specifically, commended the the Co-chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Apart from commending the members of the Presidential Campaign Council, he also thanked all those who contributed to his victory. Buhari, who also commended the international community for their interest in Nigeria’s development, lauded the security agents for their patriotic roles during the election. He said: “First and foremost, I give thanks to Almighty God, who has spared our lives to witness another victory for Nigerian democracy and victory for our party APC. “I thank the millions of Nigerians who voted to re-elect me as your president for the next four years. I am deeply humbled and profoundly grateful to you for judging me worthy of continuing to serve you and for your peaceful conduct. “In particular, I would like to thank Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for his masterful leadership as Co-chair of the Campaign Council. I would like to also thank the party Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, the Director-General of the Campaign Council Rotimi Amaechi, all members of the Presidential Campaign Council and other various support groups. “My grateful thanks go to all those who contributed to the logistical expenses of the campaign in such a vast country like Nigeria. “I also thank the millions of volunteers, self-appointed overseers, canvassers, agents, escorts and sentries who sacrificed so much of their time and resources to ensure the success of these elections. I do not have the words adequate to thank them. “Although Saturday’s elections were relatively peaceful, troublemakers in a handful of states attempted to disrupt an otherwise orderly process. Security agencies will bring to justice all those arrested in the process. “I am very sad at the grievous loss of lives during these elections. Security agencies will step up their efforts to protect voters in the forthcoming State elections. “I would like to commend our security agencies, as severely overstretched as they are, for handling the difficult task of securing the country during the election period. “I will like to make a special appeal to my supporters not to gloat or humiliate the opposition. Victory is enough reward for your efforts. “We give thanks also to our domestic and international observers for contributing to the success of our elections and for their interest in our country and our developing democracy. “The new administration will intensify its efforts in security, restructuring the economy and fighting corruption. We have laid down the foundation and we are committed to seeing matters to the end. We will strive to strengthen our unity and inclusiveness so that no section or group will feel left behind or left out. “I thank you for your support and may God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” With the him at the campaign council were: Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Tinubu, Osiomhole, Transport Minister & Director-General of the campaign council, Rotimi Amaechi,  among other party supporters.