•Telcos and banks should understand this is not the solution to cyber fraudsters Telecommunications operators (Telcos) and commercial banks are passing the buck over SIM-cards swapping devised to steal customers’ funds from their bank accounts. This form of crime that involves use of swapped sims to empty unsuspecting victims’ bank accounts has, according to the Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, cost Nigerians about N12.5 billion so far. Representatives of telecommunication companies and commercial banks at the inauguration of the new executive officers of the Industry Consumer Advisory Forum (ICAF) held each other responsible for facilitating such crimes. Representatives of telcos called on victims to hold their banks responsible for whatever happened to funds kept in the custody of the banks while representatives of banks called on telcos to ensure more vigilance over their products and services. We find such buck passing from companies providing two ultra-sensitive services pedestrian and amazing.  It should be obvious to both of them that they have obligation to ensure that their customers have confidence in their products and services. That one party is eager to apportion blame to the other, without evidence of thorough investigation of all the factors that facilitate stealing of billions of naira from deposits of innocent bank customers, demonstrates that each side is concerned only with the bottom line, with no empathy for victims of digital security breaches in transactions involving both parties. It is, however, instructive that there were representatives of other agencies at the event to suggest the way to go to bring solutions to such problems. For example, we find the call of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and Consumer Affairs Bureau for thorough investigation of the matter more rational and more realistic. We agree that it is only after thorough investigation to determine the details of such technology-specific crimes that any blame can be laid at anybody’s door. It is also after detailed investigation that short and long-term solutions can be proffered. Buck passing between the two parties is premature as well as insensitive to the interests of consumers of the services provided by both companies. Given that stealing of customers’ funds in banks via SIM-swapping or phishing is still an ongoing crime, we find the suggestion of the communications minister that “… innovation needs to be meaningful to ensure that nations and societies everywhere benefit from technological advancement; technology disruption has been infused in every facet of the Nigerian economy” very relevant to searching for solution to this type of crime. We suggest that an independent investigation already commenced by NCC and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should include other relevant agencies such as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU). Cyber crimes occur in many countries and search for solutions to such crimes often involve collaboration between government agencies and experts in charge of cyber crimes. The immediate challenge is to move fast on investigation towards finding solutions to a new form of criminality that can ruin the well-being of innocent citizens. Meanwhile, the two important service providers should, rather than bicker, start rubbing minds with a view to improving security in products and services they offer. Spending more precious time to speculate, instead of acting fast to determine weaknesses in the software of both important service providers, can add to avoidable losses for many more innocent customers. We urge law enforcement agencies to track down individuals that might have been responsible for using their SIMs to commit crimes and bring such criminals to book immediately.