The Federal Government launched the new Digital Identity Ecosystem programme so as to facilitate the collection of citizens’ biometric data nationwide within the shortest time possible, the Director-General, National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), Engr. Aliyu Aziz, has said. He spoke in Abuja at the reform seminar organised by the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR). He said: “The purpose of the ecosystem approach is to leverage existing capabilities and enrolment facilities of government agencies, partners and private sector organisations in Nigeria, as opposed to building new ones.” This, he said, involves coordinated efforts of all enrolment partners, including all government agencies involved in biometric data collection as well as partners and companies in the private sector to be licensed by NIMC. In his presentation titled: “Reinventing Nigeria’s Digital Identity Ecosystem,” Aziz said with the approval by the Federal Executive Council of the National Roadmap on Identity Development in Nigeria, the NIMC Regulations 2017, ISO Certified and upgraded backend in place, it’s now time to commence the implementation of the Mandatory usage of the National Identification Number (NIN). The new Digital Identity Ecosystem is a Federal Government-led initiative to collect biometric data nationwide in one-go by leveraging existing ecosystem of all government agencies including federal, state and local government areas and the private sector. Aziz said the ecosystem approach of enrolment will constitute “trusted partners,” and a “pay-per-play model” to facilitate successful enrolments and fast-track the process nationwide. He said: “NIMC will facilitate collecting of identity data (biometric and demographic data) by also ensuring that partners collect data and are paid per successful enrolment. NIMC stores data and uses same to offer a Unique ID to the citizens and legal residents. “As the Federal Government Agenda, we are all enjoined to work together as one Government (though many agencies) to achieve the ID objectives and bequeath a sustainable and credible system of identity to our nation and generations to come. “Therefore, everyone, every sector (public or private) has a role to play – participate, partner, be compliant, champion the project, support the process and educate others on the importance of the initiative and how it can and must be achieved.” According to him, “there is a strong relationship or correlation between Identification and Reforms, both are central in realising effective delivery of important government services to the people.” 