Miss Esther Ayobami emerged the Best Graduating Student at the 28th convocation of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUTMINNA), Niger State. In this interview with ABDULSALAM MAHMUD, Miss Ayobami who studied Mechanical Engineering with 4.76 CGPA, reveals the secrets of her success. According to her, association with brilliant minds was key to catapulting her to the zenith. You emerged FUTMINNA’s best graduating student. How do you feel coming tops? Graduating with a First Class is not a mean achievement! Like every other student, I steadfastly prayed and worked very hard to be celebrated as the best graduating student, someday. But, I was absolutely over the moon when I got to know, just few days to the convocation that I emerged outstanding in the 2017/2018 academic session. I am still overjoyed and proud of my truly profound accomplishment. How did your success begin? I have been on First Class grade right from 100-Level. I started with 5.0 cgpa (Cumulative Grade Point Average) in first semester, and had 4.85 after the second semester of my first year in school. By 200-Level second semester, I had 4.84. By 300-Level, my GCPA increased to 4.86. At the end of my 400-Level and 500-Level first semester, I had 4.88 and 4.87 as CGPA. I eventually graduated with 4.76 as my final CGPA. All through my study, I had only 4 “Bs” and 2 “Cs” in my results. The rest were A. Engineering is considered to be very challenging, especially for females. How did you weather the storm? I dare say that Engineering is, perhaps, the simplest field of study. It is not as difficult as people consider it to be. Although it may be intellectually-tasking, due to the ‘crazy’ calculation in some courses, it is simple if one knows the basic concepts and formula, otherwise, the claim that it is difficult, if I would say, is just a myth. Describe your reading time-table or programme I read very often. I study my books and read each course immediately after lectures. Unlike most students, I don’t practise what is commonly known as ‘Till-Daybreak’ or TDB. Though I study my materials every evening before going to bed. To help me properly assimilate and retain what I studied, I tutor my colleagues. I also answer past questions of my courses. Most First Class students are not known to be very social. Are you an exception? Right from the outset, I had plans to fully experience and also enjoy the social life in school. I didn’t think it should all be about books, hence I wasn’t extremely studious. As a socialite, I attended a couple of parties organised by students’ groups on campus. I partook in several drama programmes organised by FUTMINNA student-members of the Redeemed Christian Fellowship (RCF). During weekends I visit my friends staying off-campus and also watch movies during my leisure hours. Besides, I actively participated in students’ unionism, though I lost the SUG Vice-Presidential election, which I contested in my 200-Level. You are a combination of brain and beauty. How did you resist the overtures of male students? Yes, I was able to, and it was very much easy for me. Since I know it will be difficult to effectively combine love relationship and studies, I strongly resisted the overtures made to me by males. In fact, I don’t waste much time in telling them ‘hell, no’. However, there are those who I accepted as friends, and later co-opted them into my religious fellowship. So, for me, my studies always take the lead position, and then others follow. Tell us about your memorable days in school. Each time I checked my semester results, realising that I still maintained my First Class grade are days which have remain unforgettable for me. Coaching my contemporaries and other students during tutorial sessions are days which I will also cherish. My joy was also indescribable on the day I received a certificate of academic excellence both from my department and faculty in my 500-level. But the greatest moment for me was when I was called up to the podium as the ‘Best Graduating Student’ during the convocation. Do you have plans to acquire higher academic degrees very soon? Certainly, I do! Right now, I am planning to proceed for my masters abroad. There, I intend to major in Artificial Intelligence. If my plan works out, I see myself leading a research team someday. A team that will apply advanced engineering technology to solve man’s problem. Any advice for those still in the university system? First, every student must resolve to be hardworking, serious and dedicated to their academic pursuit. They should put their studies above every other thing they wish to do in school. They should avoid missing lectures. They should also seek further explanations on areas they seem to have challenge in their studies from more knowledgeable colleagues. More importantly, they should associate more with brilliant students. Let them learn to surround themselves with bright and gifted people. While in school, my friends were practically the best in their departments. I also had lecturers as friends and mentors, who helped me to attain the feat I just recorded in school. I will implore my juniors to do same. And, lastly, they shouldn’t forget to seek divine assistance and guidance. It is very important.