The leadership of mainstream of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Delta State chapter has concluded plans to inaugurate 4,000 canvassers on Saturday February 9th in Asaba. Drawn from 270 wards in the state, the inauguration is part of efforts towards securing another four years term for President Muhammadu Buhari. Leader of the mainstream Delta APC, Olorogun O’Tega Emerhor in a statement, said: “One area where Delta APC has unity of purpose is that Delta must contribute to getting President Buhari get four more years in office. “To this end, I have been working assiduously with our party structure ably led by Chief Cyril Ogodo to ensure that we, the Mainstream of the party in Delta State contribute our own quota to getting votes out towards giving our dear President another four years in office. “I’m therefore, happy to announce to you that working with our party structure, we are organising a conference for the inaugural and commissioning of 4000 canvassers for a door to door campaign program in Delta State for the re-election of President Mohammadu Buhari. “This Conference is slated for Saturday February 9th, commencing 8am at Grand Hotel, Asaba. “The aim is to train a 4000 strong force of Canvassers and equip them with materials (Buhari Flyers, posters etc) to proceed on a door to door campaign in the 270 wards of Delta State. “Each canvasser shall be charged to bring in a minimum of 100 votes. “The 4000 Canvassers are therefore expected to get out a minimum of 400,000 votes for our President. “This will be in addition to the expected efforts of our other party members and leaders. “The canvassers shall commence work on February 10th and shall canvass intensely for six days. The canvassers shall be supported by 10 Buhari branded campaign vehicles mounted with loud blaring speakers also distributing Flyers and Posters. “The vehicles shall operate one each, in the 10 Federal Constituencies in the State. These vehicles have been contributed to the campaign programme and shall also be launched at the conference. “Chief Cyril Ogodo is already reaching out right now to party structure and leaders as we seek to recruit the 4000 canvassers from among our members across the state”.