Authorities of Dennis Memorial Grammar School, Onitsha, Anambra State, has described as unfortunate but accidental the death of Master Chukwuebuka Nnanna, a JSS 1 student of the school. The death of Chukwuebuka, rumoured to had been stoned to death by his classmate over alleged jealousy which went viral on social media was greeted with wide condemnation. Principal of the school, Rev. Can. Anieto Chigozie, in a statement, at the weekend, however, said the deceased would not have been killed out of envy as alleged, as he was just newly admitted to the school. He explained that the incident was purely an accident and not intentional, insisting that the deceased was neither stabbed, flogged to death nor fell from any height. He said: “How can a fellow student be envious of a JSS1 student who has stayed just a term? Is it really possible?” According to the principal, the information the school authority got from students showed that the boy slumped after being hit by a stone and was taken to the Sick Bay. He however said the deceased was rushed to the General Hospital where he was confirmed dead following inability of the staff nurse at the sick bay to handle the case. He added: “We called the father’s number severally but was switched off until we had to send a staff who knows his shop. “She succeeded in getting another number from them there and was contacted. But before he came, we had already taken the child to Iyienu Hospital where he was also certified dead.” The Principal further revealed that the school had sent its report to the appropriate authorities in charge of education both in the state government and the Church. While praying for the repose of the deceased soul and for the consolation of the family, the cleric assured that the matter was being investigated. “We are in touch with the family. No student has owned up to the crime but we are still seriously investigating the matter with the view of finding out who threw the stone,” he added. Efforts to reach the father of the deceased were unsuccessful as his telephone line was unavailable several times it was called.