Singer, actor, record label owner and now turned politician, Banky W, has put up an impressive outing at the general elections which held across the country on Saturday. Though official results are yet to be released, Banky W, who is seeking to represent Eti Osa constituency, Lagos at the Federal House of Representatives under the banner of the Modern Democratic Party, MDP, has won his polling unit at Lekki, Lagos. He led the poll with 575 votes with the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, getting 540 votes while the All Progressive Congress, APC, got 454 votes. Expressing his appreciation on Sunday, Banky W took to Instagram to show a photo of the result sheet. “Thank you to EVERYONE who voted, volunteered and donated,” he said. “Collation of all polling units in Eti-Osa is still ongoing, but regardless of the final outcome, please take a GOOD LOOK at how we won my polling unit in Lekki 1!!! No Godfather, logo issues, crowd sourced fundraising, online trolling.. many said we were wasting our time, but we built our party agent structure in less than 3 months and we upset the big boys in multiple polling units. We proved that it CAN be done. “The movement has begun. We must sustain this momentum. This is only the beginning. #MDP #StrongerTogether #BankOnBanky.” On Saturday, it was reported that the MDP also beat the ruling party, APC, at the polling unit of the vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and his wife in Victoria Garden City, Lagos. For the position of House of Representaives, while PDP, led with 244 votes, MDP came second with 186 votes while the APC got 167 votes. The first timer in politics also used his star power to put out some irregularities in the voting process in his constituency during the election. Tagging the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, on Instagram, Banky W brought to their attention the non-proision of ballot papers for election into the House of Representatives at a polling unit in Ikoyi, Lagos. “@inecnigeria pls see evidence that at Polling unit code 24-08-09-013 in Ikoyi, staff did not provide any ballot papers for House of Reps,” he wrote. “Voters have been told to only vote for Senate and President. We will be closely watching the final tally to ensure that NO votes for House of Reps in this unit are counted. My people, pls repost.” The post got over 300, 000 views. Also, addressing people who may want to intimidate him and his supporters during counting process, Banky W took to his Instagram account to say they were not going to break. “We will not leave this place until every single vote has been counted,” he wrote in the early hours of Sunday morning. “You think you can come here with aggression to intimidate us? Lol. Abegi. Have a seat and watch the count like everybody else. #MDP #StrongerTogether #BankOnBanky.”