Although it has opted for legal action over last Saturday’s election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has other plans, The Nation has learnt. With some opposition leaders, the party seeks to discredit the presidential election by: A former president and some retired generals are believed to be backing the plot. The destabilisation plot was hatched at a meeting on Tuesday night in Abuja, according to sources, who pleaded not to be named because of the “sensitivity” of the matter. It was gathered that roles were assigned to various groups and leaders at the meeting. A principal officer of the National Assembly is to “poach INEC” for vital documents. The Nation has stumbled on some documents of the Action Plan. One, titled:  “Re: Fresh plots by opposition”, coded and addressed to “The Principal” whose identity was not disclosed,  said the defeated presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, might be “in the forefront of the process”. The document said: “Deliberate effort to delegitimise the results through the following deliberate effort as suggested by a former President and other principal opposition leaders to deploy these groups: (a) Civil society groups (b) Ohanaeze, (c) Afenifere (d) Middle Belt Forum, (e) Students, women groups, observation groups and (f) other groups, i.e. retired Generals. “International organisations with copies of reverse logistics and copies they collected through their agents which is not a true reflection of the result by INEC- EU, AU, ECOWAS, etc Other plans include: A top security source, who spoke in confidence, said:  “Some opposition leaders met in Abuja on Tuesday night till the early hours of Wednesday on how to disorganise the country. The meeting followed their failed bid to stop the collation of results by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. “We have intelligence clues on their plans. The first peg of the plot by the opposition is to discredit the outcome of the presidential poll at all cost.  They have decided to engage international and local media and support groups in this regard. The second part borders on civil disobedience and protest marches nationwide by commissioned ethnic groups and some civil society organisations. “ “And a principal officer in the National Assembly has been mandated to obtain relevant documents and other logistics details which can be used at the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal and for media propaganda.” Apparently in line with the plans, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) announced yesterday that it will start a protest against the release of the results. Addressing a briefing in Abuja, the CUPP 1st National spokesperson, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, said the mass action was informed by the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari is a “carrier of stolen mandate.”