Celebrating the world’s biggest stars, Sunday night’s 61st Annual Grammy Awards, which held at the Staples Center in Downtown Los Angeles, United States, had so much to remember, including a few surprises here and there. Reports describe the outing as standing the “risk of being defined more by who didn’t show up than by the actual attendees, performers and winners.” The conspicuous absences were filled by some brilliant performances — mostly by women like Brandi Carlile, Janelle Monáe and especially Lady Gaga. Some of the surprises on the night include Cardi B picking up the award for Best Rap Album, ahead of Pusha T, Nipsey Hustle, Travis Scott and Mac Miller. It was also a great outing for Drake whose God’s Plan won the Best Rap Song Award. Nigerian singer, Seun Kuti and his Egypt 80 band who was nominated in the World Best Album category for ‘Black Times’, was defeated by the Soweto Gospel Choir for their Album, ‘Freedom’. Other nominees of the World Best Album category are, ‘Deran’ by Bombino; ‘Fenfo’ by Fatoumata Diawara and ‘The Lost Songs Of World War II’ by Yiddish Glory. Seun Kuti &Egypt 80 band were also billed to perform at the premiere show of the awards ceremony. One of the high moments recorded had Lady Gaga in the spotlight. Joined by her “Shallow” co-writers Mark Ronson and Dirty Pretty Things indie-rocker Anthony Rossomando for a Hedwig-like tour de force, Gaga took the pyro-showered Staples Center stage in a silver-sequined unitard, clubfoot platform boots, rhinestoned eyelids and bleachy bedhead. She delivered an absolutely fierce, fearless performance that rocked every bit as hard as her 2017 Grammy duet with Metallica and was as over-the-top and glamtastic as her polarizing Bowie tribute from the 2016 Grammys. Here are some other winners: Album of the Year Record of the Year Song of the Year Best New Artist Best Pop Solo Performance Vocal Album Best Pop Duo/Group Performance Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album Best Dance/Electronic Album Best Dance Recording Best Contemporary Instrumental Album Urban, rap, and R&B categories Best R&B Album  Best R&B Performance Best Traditional R&B Performance Best R&B Song Best Urban Contemporary Album Best Rap Album