.Says no area will be left unpoliced  Lagos State Commissioner Zubairu Muazu on  Thursday issued stern warning to ballot box snatchers and other electoral offenders to have a rethink or face the wrath of the law. Muazu gave the warning at his maiden interaction with reporters since assuming duties at the new police boss in the state. According to him, the command would stop at nothing to ensure that offenders are prosecuted and convicted, reminding residents that the earlier deployment of 30,000 security personnel for the exercise would be maintained. On the preparedness of the command to deal with such issues, Muazu said: “Our men have the ingredients of the Electoral Act. They have been well trained on what is expected of them before, during and after the elections. So when anyone who snatches a ballot box is caught, they will be tried in court and punished according to the law. “I want to assure you that the Police in collaboration with other security agencies under the umbrella of Inter-Agency consultative committee on this election is ready come Saturday. “A very robust operation order to cover deployment of security personnel for the elections is on ground, so we will ensure there is a safe and secure environment for electorate in Lagos to go and cast their votes without fear and intimidation.” He said the command had emplaced an election plan that covers before, during and after the exercise, stating that intelligence arm of security agencies had been deployed to gather evidence in case of prosecution of arrested suspects. Confirming recent cult clashes in the state, Muazu assured residents such clashes would not hamper the peace of the polls, adding that arrests have been made and suspects would be prosecuted. “In the last two weeks, we have had cases of clashes between rival cult groups in areas like Oworonshoki, Somolu, Bariga and Fadeyi. We are working round the clock to ensure there is peace. We want to assure Lagosians that we will make sure that these few cases we have had will not surface during the election. “I want to assure all Lagosians that this year’s elections are going to be well secured and so, they should come out and vote. There will be constant patrols and pin-down patrol points.
“Arrests have been made in the cases cited and investigations are ongoing. All suspects would be charged to court soon.“