*To immediately return to Abuja  President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday in Daura, Katsina State expressed his disappointment over the postponement of the 2019 general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Buhari was in his home state since Thursday for the All Progressives Congress Presidential campaign rally and to vote for the presidential election earlier scheduled for Saturday. But INEC, in the early hours of Saturday had announced postponement of the elections by another one week due to some challenges. The President in a statement on Saturday said “I am deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and our preparations both locally and internationally, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) postponed the Presidential and National Assembly elections within hours of its commencement. “Many Nigerians have traveled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers are gathered. “INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections. We and all our citizens believed them. “This administration has ensured that we do not interfere in any way with the work of INEC except to ensure that all funds were released to the commission.” He urged INEC to ensure that materials already distributed are safe and do not get into wrong hands. He also charged the electoral umpire to do everything to avoid the lapses that resulted in this unfortunate postponement. Buhari tasked INEC to ensure a free and fair election on the rescheduled dates. He added “While I reaffirm my strong commitment to the independence, neutrality of the electoral umpire and the sanctity of the electoral process and ballot, I urge all political stakeholders and Nigerians to continue to rally round INEC at this trying national moment in our democratic journey. “I, therefore, appeal to all Nigerians to refrain from all civil disorder and remain peaceful, patriotic and united to ensure that no force or conspiracy derail our democratic development. “I have decided to move back to Abuja to ensure that the 14.00 hrs meeting called by INEC with all stakeholders is successful.