The Coordinator of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign in Cross River State, Mr Chris Agara has expressed confidence that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) would score not less than 90 per cent of votes in the presidential elections in the state. Mr Agara in an interaction with reporters in Calabar, that were carrying out an aggressive campaign down to the grassroots to mobilize support for Atiku in the elections. “We are looking forward to having a minimum of 90 per cent votes for the PDP in Cross River State. There is no arrogance in it. It is just so. We go right down to the polling units to mobilize and let the people know the difference between PDP and the Federal Government and for them to come out in their numbers and vote that day and vote the PDP and change the government of the day. Cross River is a PDP state and nobody can take away. “One of the problem we have in the country is unemployment. Atiku came to Cross River and said he is going to support the deep seaport and the construction of the superhighway. That alone would generate not just thousands but millions of job opportunities. The youths are wiling to work, only that the opportunities are not there. So if the youths are properly engaged their lives would change and the economy would go round. Trade and commerce would definitely thrive. The multiplier effects cannot be quantified. That is what we would be telling the people. “Atiku’s thrust is to empower the youths, human capital development and restructuring the country. Everybody should be allowed to grow according to their own abilities and capacities. Not to stifle people and not allow them to move because you want others to catch up with them. “Whoever wants to lead should have pedigree. He should have tried something on his own and developed it. You need a lot to start a transaction and grow that transaction to success because you would gone through a lot in terms of financial discipline, personal discipline, emotional stability, and foresightedness to grow. If the man in Adamawa is the single largest employer of labour in Adamawa, then you can imagine what such a person can do if given the opportunity to run the country,” Agara said.