A commentator, Ntia Nsukuma, examines the achievements of Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel and why he deserves a second term. Even with a hugely promising governance trajectory that seems slightly threatened by an opposition led by a misguided former political mentor, Governor Udom Emmanuel is going on with his re-election campaign holding his head very high. Drawing from his rich professional background as a banker, administrator and corporate finance management expert, and leaning on a vision to make Akwa Ibom a clean, secure, more prosperous state with a robust economy built on industrialization, service, equity and justice, this Onna-born dynamite left few in doubt that he is indeed the man the State needed. An average commentator or analyst in the field of politics knows that elections are the marketplaces where political choices and ideas are sold. Here, the currency is the ballot papers.  In the next three weeks, the good people of Akwa Ibom will go to the political market to pick the man who would be the Governor for the next four years. The stakes are undeniably high. Either via rational or emotional appeals, millions of  Akwa Ibomites would take the decisions on the candidates they perceive is most suitable to lead the State. To most politicians and their supporters, the most important thing at election time, is that perception in the mind of his market, the voters. No serious politician can ignore or underestimate the power of perception. The truth about a product, service, idea, party or company will matter very little in the long-run if the perception of the brand is bad. The same is true in reverse, too. Antonio Damasio, a professor of neuroscience at the University of Southern California reveals that emotions, gotten largely from experiences and perceptions, are the necessary ingredients to most decisions taken by normal humans. His words; “When we are confronted with a decision, emotions from perceptions created by information and previous related experiences affix values to the options we are considering. These emotions create preferences which lead to our decisions”. With intense pressure on government and the electoral body to ensure free and fair elections, especially in Akwa Ibom state, and increased global focus on the Nigerian elections it would not be really easy for the true opinion of voters cannot be toyed with. This explains why serious political contestants must place the issues branding, positioning and strategic communications must be at the front burner. In perception and positioning, it is vital that a brand reflects its mission, market and positioning strategy. For instance, if a brand chooses to position itself as the foremost provider of expertise in an industry, it would develop tangible and intangible ways of expressing that position. This could be through the mix of products, logos, the way staff dress, and even their comportment. All these combine to position a brand in the minds and consciousness of its target. A strong brand must clearly differentiate itself from competition. Udom Emmanuel most have clearly identified the relevance of branding when he launched a campaign dubbed Dakkada quite early in his government.. The campaign which spread like wildfire was premised on a new spirit revolving around spiritual, moral, social, cultural and political ethos for Akwa ibom citizens. Dakkada which means Arise, was a clarion call to the citizens of the state on the need to rise above pettiness and move into greatness founded on good ethos. Emmanuel earlier set the tone of what to come when during his inaugural address he said “let us sow the seeds of brotherhood, love and unity, which will energize us to maintain our current momentum and leadership position. Let us remember that with the spirit of brotherhood, love and unity, no foe can defeat us, and no rival can overtake us”. The current image of a peaceful, progressive, secure and cult-free state has been remarkably linked to the success of the Dakkada Initiative. For the governor, two words are key. “The first is a solicitation to action, Arise! Then comes a positive prompting to shine, for your light has come. It is the right season, and under the watch of the right man for every Akwa Ibom person to arise, do something, excel, advance, improve, glow, take charge and reach the zenith of his or her chosen endeavour. This campaign has enabled the government of Akwa Ibom state in the last 3 and.half years to clearly communicate her mission, increase the people’s awareness, and create a favourable visibility and impression that has united Akwa Ibomites behind one cause, promoting uncommon loyalty and commitment amongst even his critics. The power of perception cannot be underestimated; the truth about a product, service, or company can matter very little in the long-run if the perception of the brand is  poor. To complement the emotional attachment to the Udom brand in Akwa Ibom, Governor Emmanuel had demonstrated leadership by example from day one of  his coming in   by getting off to a flying start. He created the building blocks that will help in reaching his specific development goals captured in his  five- agenda programme spelt out as, Wealth Creation; Economic and Political Inclusion; Poverty Alleviation; Infrastructural Consolidation and Expansion; and Job Creation. It is this five-agenda  programme  that anchors  the Akwa Ibom rebirth project of Governor Emmanuel.. The results of the five- agenda programme have been phenomenal.. Shortly after his assumption of office as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel  set up a technical committee on Foreign Direct Investments to promote, midwife and enhance the flow of foreign investments to the State. With this Committee, dozens of industries have so far been established thereby moving yhe state fro. A.predominant civil service state to an industrial hub. Many others are ongoing while a greater number are in the pipeline and will materialize as he return in 2019. Starting from Africa’s largest syringe factory in Onna to Fertilizer blending plant in Abak, and from ongoing plywood manufacturing factory in Itu to the ongoing Ibom Deep Seaport and the Ibom Industrial City, One can clearly declare that say that the administration of Udom Emmanuel has recorded life touching achievements in creating jobs through establishment of industries spread across the State. Some of the industries birthed and completed by my administration in just three and half years include Syringe Manufacturing Factory (largest in Africa), Pencil Production Factory, Toothpick Production Factory, Electric Digital Metering Solutions Manufacturing Factory, Resuscitation of Peacock Paint Factory, Fertilizer Blending Factory, Plastic Manufacturing Factory , Palm Kernel Crushing Plant at Ibesikpo Asutan, Starch Manufacturing Plant, Palm Kernel Crushing Plant inUkanafun ,Palm Oil Processing plant and Flour Mill Factory among many others. On the agricultural front a lot has been achieved by the Udom administration. Top on the list is the 11,000 hectares of coconut plantation and refinery. Others include 2,100 hectares of cassava plantation in 15 LGAs (FADAMA) , Cultivation of over 1,200 hectares of rice, 48,000 rice farmers registered for CBN anchor borrowers scheme, 450 youths trained on cocoa maintenance, 500,000 improved cocoa seedlings raised and distributed to farmers at highly subsidized rate across the 28 cocoa producing local government areas. We also have the Akwa Prime Hatchery  producing 10,000 birds weekly and processed poultry products, Construction of  Cassava Micro-Processing Mills across the State, Construction of Tractor Hiring Enterprise (AEHE) Centre. Another commendable agricultural project is the establishment of large hybrid rubber nursery at Ebighi Anwa, Okobo L.G.A in partnership with Rubber Research Institute of Nigeria, for distribution to rubber farmers at highly subsidized rates and the establishment of demonstration plots on various agricultural technologies for transfer of improved technologies to farmers through Akwa Ibom Agricultural Development Programme (AKADEP) The Partnership with World Bamboo Organization for Bamboo development in the State  and the procurement and distribution of 30,000 Hybrid Plantain Suckers to 700 farmers are other commendable efforts in the area of agriculture. On the environmental front, exceptional steps have been taken to redefine the total outlook of Akwa Ibom and the brand image of Uyo capital city. Outstanding projects in this line are the New Governor’s Lodge, Lagos, The International Worship Centre, the 21-storey building office space for high target investors and multi-national companies, the Construction of Phase 3 of the State Secretariat to accommodate a number of MDAs that are still located in rented apartments. A product that does not have a clear cut strategy of the end users of such product has already failed before hitting the market. Happily all these activities and projects have combined to position Udom Emmanuel as the premium brand in the minds and consciousness of its target market –The Akwa Ibom people. His is presently a strong brand that has clearly differentiated itself from competition and has defined itself in the marketplace   that will win convincingly in the next gubernatorial election in Akwa Ibom state . Ntia Usukuma a Journalist writes from Lagos. 