The Federal government on Thursday said that President Muhammadu Buhari led administration was committed to the promotion of healthy working conditions for Nigerian workers in line with International Labour Standards. Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mrs Ibukun Odusote, who disclosed this Thursday at a three day workshop on Report Rendition on International Labour Organisation (ILO) Unratified Conventions and Recommendations in Abuja, said the Federal Government recognized that a stable and harmonious industrial relations climate and decent work for all are critical instruments for the realization of the goals and targets of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in terms of job creation, improved livelihoods and sustainable development in Nigeria. According to her, “I wish to emphasise that the effective implementation or application of International Labour Standards and prompt reporting on them is recognized as one of the best strategies of strengthening labour administration and promoting decent work world over. The Federal Government recognized that a stable and harmonious industrial relations climate and decent work for all are critical instruments for the realisation of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.” Represented by the Director Human Resources Management, Ibrahim Ajibola the Permanent Secretary urged participants to avail themselves of the opportunity provided by the workshop as the task of reports rendition was not an easy one. “The responses to be compiled by the various Ministries, Department and Agencies as well as the social partners gathered here will go a long way in charting the way forward with regards to current and emergent trends and employment arrangements which have gained great relevance with the transformation of the world of work as a result of globalisation. “I wish to acknowledge that the Ministry is aware that some of you will be reporting on Unratified Conventions for the first time. This workshop is therefore directed at developing and strengthening the capacity of focal persons within the Ministries and Social Partners to effectively report on ILO Unratified Conventions. I, therefore enjoin all participants to seize this opportunity and utilize it to their full advantage,” she urged. Earlier, in his remarks, the Director, Productivity Measurement and Labour Standards, Eyewumi Neburagho said that the workshop was aimed at developing the capacity of focal officers to know the relevance of effective reporting of ILO instruments, believing that if this objective was met, Nigeria’s reports would be developed according to the international best standard. In their separate remarks, the representatives of the Nigerian Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Mr Adewale Oyerinde, Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Com. Benson Upah and Trade Union Congress (TUC), Com. Musa Lawal appreciated the Ministry for the opportunity and pledged the unalloyed support of the social partners to efforts at ensuring prompt report rendition to the International Labour Organisation.