The All Progressives Congress ( APC ) has commended the people of Kwara state for voting to end the era of dominance and political slavery in the state by coming out to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all its candidates in Saturday elections. The party asked the people to complete the political revolution they have started by coming out to cast their vote for the party governorship candidate in the forth coming governorship elections. In a statement signed by the National publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Isa Onilu, the party said it was full of “appreciation to the good people of Kwara State for the tremendous and overwhelming support shown to President Muhammadu Buhari and all candidates of the party in the Presidential and National Assembly elections that held last Saturday. “For our party and to Kwarans, this victory is special in so many ways. But most significantly, is how the people showed uncommon resilience and determination against all odds to kick out a man that had stagnated development and held the fortunes of the state hostage for the past 16 years. “The people of Kwara have shown clearly that they will no longer fraternize with their oppressors neither will the state representation continue to be a sign post for thuggery, embezzlement, feudal lords, misuse of power and opportunism. “The people of Kwara have shown commitment to the kind of change that will empower the people while reclaiming the lost glory of Kwarans. The dawn of intellectual capacity, integrity, accountability, fair and progressive representation as well as respect for people and institutions beckon. “We equally note with utmost satisfaction the total and unequivocal victory given to our party, as we not only won the Presidential election, but also all the Senate and House of Representatives seats in the state. “It is, indeed, a new dawn for our dear Kwara State. The APC would not take this victory for granted. Service to the people would be our watchword, as our Representatives in the National Assembly are fully conscious of the enormous responsibilities now placed on their shoulders. “However, we want to remind our people that the work is not done yet. Come Saturday, we humbly ask every eligible voter in the state to come out enmasse and vote for our governorship candidate, AbdulRahman Abdulrazak and all our candidates for the House of Assembly polls. “To accomplish this task is imperative in order to uproot all the vestiges of the retrogressive political servitude that has held our dear state backward amongst the comity of states in Nigeria.”