The House of Representatives-elect, Hon Femi Bamisile, has said the electorate voted against heavyweight politicians because they didn’t feel the dividends of democracy in the last four years. Bamisile said those politicians neglected their constituents for personal aggrandizement, forgetting they would be there for a specified time frame. He disclosed that many of those perceived to be heavyweights in the nation’s politics lost in the just concluded National Assembly elections because some of them took their people for granted. The House of Representatives-elect said he won the election to represent Ekiti East/Gbonyin/Emure federal constituency of the state due to his connection to the grassroots. “Any politician who takes people for granted will be dealt with on the day of election,” he explained. The former Speaker stated that aside from his connection with the people, the victory of Governor Kayode Fayemi in the July 14, 2018 election was also helpful to swayed votes for the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Assembly candidates in the state. Bamisile, candidate of the APC defeated the incumbent federal legislator and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Hon Akin Awodumila. Speaking with journalists on his victory in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday, Bamisile said he would make up for the incompetence of his predecessor by facilitating federal projects to the constituency. He added that he would partner with the state government to bring radical improvement to the State in the areas of infrastructure, youth and women empowerment and educational advancements of the youths. “Ekiti has its own peculiarity in terms of elections. Our governorship is a staggered one. So, governor Fayemi winning the governorship contest really helped us because the National Assembly had always toed the line of governorship seat since 1999. “Added to that was the fact that I have not occupied any political position since 2011 when I left the State House of Assembly. “So I used this interregnum to consolidate my connection with the people. “I used the period to integrate myself into the system better and the reward was what I got, because I won the three local governments in that federal constituency. “Politicians always have erroneous impression that they are the major players in politics, they thought they are up there above the people but the people are the major players because they determine our fates. “So, the lesson of the fall of heavyweight politicians in the just concluded National Assembly elections was that,  people can’t be taken for granted, because the election day is always a day of reckoning,” he stated. Bamisile added: “I have been in the Assembly and that has given me a background in legislative duties. “I know the pitfall and I will leverage on that to bring dividends of democracy to our people, because the essence of people electing you is to give them the gains of democracy.” He promised to use his contact as a federal legislator to facilitate the reconstruction of Ado-Ijan-Ikare road and Omuo-Isinbode –Ode –Agbado road, which he stated were federal roads.