The Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA) has called on relevant financial institutions to be flexible in the disbursement of funds to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). ECCIMA President Mr. Emeka Udeze made the call at the chamber’s 45th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Enugu, during the week. He said the Federal Government had taken the right step by recapitalising the the concerned financial institutions, thereby boosting their services. “We also commend the Federal Government’s efforts in bringing down the interest rate of loans from the Bank of Industry (BoI) to a single digit by providing N10 billion to them. “The setting aside of N15 billion for the recapitalisation of the Bank for Agriculture (BoA) and BoI will always give confidence to SMEs in doing business with these banks. “However, the Federal Government should increase the funds being allocated to the two banks as this will grow the nation’s SMEs, which is the life wire of every economy,” Udeze said. The president, however, said undue stringent hurdles should not be allowed to defeat the purpose which SME administration and industrial development funds was meant. Udeze said the chamber was excited by the Federal Government’s resolve in fixing infrastructure across the country through shrewd budget implementation. He expressed the chamber’s optimism that going forward, the economy would be stimulated by the implementation of the 2019 budget. He said although, the economy was expected to be stimulated by the financing of contracts across the country, the Federal Government should take the issue of diversification of the economy serious with a view to building a strong and virile economy. Udeze praised the Enugu State Government for sustaining and improving the peace, stability and orderliness in the state. “This has resulted in the current report of World Bank Ease of Doing Business, which placed the state in second position,” Udeze said. In his remarks, ECCIMA Director-General, Mr. Emeka Okereke, said the AGM was a period of stocktaking and mapping out new ways of taking the chamber to greater heights.  