THE Comedy Central Roast of AKA is set to rally Africans from Lagos to Cape Town, to join in the celebration of poking fun at the celebrities they love the most. Taking place at the Teatro at Montecasino, Johannesburg, South Africa, on February 21, 2019, the show welcomes three wise men to unite Africa’s socio-political differences in a spectacular show of love and laughter as part of the Comedy Central Roast of AKA in partnership with Showmax. Adding to his list of impressive achievements, Nigerian singer, Davido will become the first Nigerian to join the globally famousComedy Central Roast. Davido has racked up numerous nominations and awards including the BET Award and the MTV EMArecognition in the “Best International Act: Africa”. Commenting on the Roast, Davido said: “I’m such a big fan of Comedy Central, this is going to be a hilarious night. I’m ready, Africa are you ready? This is a Roast so nothing is off limits!” Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director of Viacom International Media Networks Africa (VIMN Africa) added, “At VIMN Africa, we continuously evolve and innovate content to create unique and engaging experiences for our audiences that drive culture. In a continental first, this Comedy Central Roast now transcends boundaries by welcoming Africa’s international star, Davido, to the panel.” Warm-hearted and gentle, Moshe Ndiki stands tall on stage and is a growing role model. As a performer he easily steps out of standard social lines and into the hungry minds of his audience. Free from inhibition, this comic genius has shown us that we can all laugh at ourselves, shatter taboos, and that we are all as strong as the walls we can break. Moshe is a media sensation and has enough fiery flamboyance to take on the Man – AKA. Pierre Van Pletzen, also known as ‘Oubaas’ will fan the flames onto AKA when he hits the stage. Proud but tactile in his approach, and after many years on the circuit with his multi-faceted screen performance he has a certain knack which will light up AKA and burn the theatre. According to Pierre Van Pletzen, “It feels wonderful to be part of the Roast of AKA, whom I’d like to address as the non-humble infamously popular rapper, about a few things; his no-show at performances, his knowledge of Geography and since he says he loves soccer… I would like to ask if he’s practicing his technique by kicking fans off the stage.”