President Muhammadu Buhari declared yesterday that  only God would punish the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for looting Nigeria dry during its 16 years in power. But he vowed that every proved case of corruption would be prosecuted. Buhari, at a meeting with local and international support groups at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said ill-gotten properties of the guilty would be confiscated and sold and  the money realized would be put into the treasury for public use. Buhari said that upon his assumption of office, he approached the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) who told him there was no money in the federal treasury. He noted that there was no infrastructure or any developmental achievements to justify the draining of the substantial earnings from crude oil. He said: “I have said this for the umpteenth time and I have challenged them to prove me wrong. In those 16 years of the PDP rule, Nigeria was getting 2.1 million times 100 (2.1 million barrels by $100 per barrel) every day, every week, but when we came on board, the price fell to between $37 and $38 and hung around $40-$50. ”I went to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and asked him for money and he said there was no money.” The last time road rehabilitation took place, he said, was under General Sani Abacha, when he served as the Chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund, stressing that the roads were rehabilitated up to the east. Speaking on his integrity, Buhari said: “If I didn’t stick to my principle of accountability, I would have been in trouble by now and I have no regrets. ”Everybody wants to be comfortable, but the most important thing is to live within your means and bear the consequence.” On why he visited the neighboring countries shortly after he was sworn in, he said: “If you don’t establish good relations with your neighbours, you will spend more on security.” The leader of the delegation, Dr. Mahmud Mohammed, said the groups supported him because of his integrity and commitment. He said for the first time in the history of campaigns, they were campaigning with meagre funds generated from well-wishers because the president specifically directed that no money from the public funds should be spent on his campaign. He said: “From tomorrow, we will not sleep. We still start house to house, shop to shop and market to market campaign to ensure your victory.”