He is an Assistant Commissioner of Police but one with a difference. Having mastered the culture of stock ‘trading for well over three decades, the IT savvy Aderemi Adeoye who currently serves at the Africa Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, recently called on friends on Facebook to take advantage of opportunities in the stock market with him. The result was Alfa Trust Investment Club, and an amazing N56.6million pulled together and doing great half a year later. Gboyega Alaka caught up with him at the very first physical meeting of members. Tell us about Alfa Trust Investment Club Alfa trust investment Club was founded out of identification of opportunities in the stock market, specifically the Nigerian Stock Exchange. A little background information: I have been into stock in the last 30 years. I bought my first stock with part of my first salary as a police officer 30 years ago, and I have never stopped buying ever since. The only thing is I don’t just buy any stock that comes along; I conduct research to identify viable stocks before investing my money. In the 1990s while I was serving in Anambra State, my stock broker then, Cashcraft Asset Management Company Limited, we usually robbed minds together to identify opportunities in the stock market and I’ve had occasions to advise the my office in Onitsha then as to investment opportunities that were primed, and when my advise paid off, I was handsomely rewarded. So it has all along being a kind of investment hobby for me. So when in 2016 the online trading platform was introduced, which enabled anybody who knows about the stock market to open a trading account and trade by themselves without going through any stock broker, I opened a trading account for my personal investment with Morgan Capital Group (a stock broking firm in Lagos) and I started trading by myself. After doing that for two years and I had mastered the system, and when last year (2018), I saw that prices of valuable stocks had dipped considerably, I saw that a huge opportunity existed to make money. But one can only take advantage of such opportunity if one has capital, which I didn’t; so I called on my friends on Facebook, majority of whom I had never met in real life. I invited them to join me in taking advantage of the opportunities, and in six weeks, we pulled together N56.6million. Fantastic. I learnt the initial target was N5m. The initial target was N5million but we surpassed that in just two days; yet so many other people indicated interest. And because the stock market is very open-ended, if you invest N10b, it will absorb it without even knowing you brought anything, we extended it. You started trading 30 years ago with part of your first salary as a police officer; that would probably mean that you knew a lot about stock trading very early in life…. Glad you’ve gone in that direction. While in the university at OAU, I usually spent my holidays in Lagos with my uncle, who always sent me to attend the annual general meetings of companies he had invested in. He had schooled in Japan and imbibed a lot of that culture. Japan by the way had one of the most vibrant stock markets in the world. At the end of deliberations at those meetings, what interested me most was that companies like Cadbury would distribute huge packs of their products to each of the shareholders. Of course my uncle would give me a sizable chunk to take back to school. So I took interest in stock trading from that moment. You got people to pull N56.6m online, even without knowing them. How did you earn so much trust? I am actually meeting most of them for the first time today. First, I am known on Facebook as a senior police officer. I’ve been on Facebook since 2009. Aside that, I have this distinction of fighting online fraud. I have intervened in several cases on behalf of victims and got the suspects arrested and prosecuted in real life. I’ve gotten suspects who defraud people of millions on Facebook, with the money recovered and returned to the rightful owners, and some of my friends on Facebook know these people in real life. They also know how I have helped people even with my own resources; and that I don’t receive any gratification for favours done. In fact, there is a recent case of a woman, who I helped to retrieve her N100,000 from fraudsters, who was persistently asking for my account number but I politely declined. I told her I had never collected money for favours done and would not want to taint that record. So the credibility is not in doubt and people can place money on me and go to sleep. You come across as a policeman with a difference; would this be because of your orientation or because you have enough money in your bank balance? As a matter of fact, I’ve had to borrow money from some friends very recently, when I had to make an emergency trip from Addis Ababa to Abuja, which I didn’t plan for. I had to call on two of my friends on Facebook who loaned me N100,000 each, with a promise to pay back as soon as I arrived Nigeria this week. I only just paid that money back last night. That shows that it’s not like I have enough money. In fact, it is difficult to say that one has enough money, because man’s need is insatiable. But like they say, good name is better than silver and gold. Talking of orientation, I have a strong Christian background, with strong Christian principles. I was in the choir at a tender age; in secondary school, I was in fellowship; in the university, I was Assistant Drama Director in the fellowship…, and the core principles have remained with me. One of the greatest banes of the Nigeria Police is moving to the next level of IT, but you seem quite IT savvy; how did you do it? In 1998, I opened my yahoomail account, which I have used till today. I tried to attend a computer school, but the nature of my job would not allow me. Then I was serving in the State CID, Anambra State; so I arranged for a tutor to come to my office to train me one hour, two times a week. When in 2000 I moved to Abuja on transfer, I was in the IG Secretariat, so my hour of work was predictable; I enrolled in a computer school and did a six months course. That grounded me. In 2005, I went to serve at the United Nations in Liberia for one year and everything was computerised. When I came back home, I served in Port Harcourt; I was in Maiduguri as Sector Commander  with the Military Joint Task Force for two and half years; came to Lagos, headed the IG office; and then I was transferred to the AU in Addis Ababa 2015. At AU, everything is computerised as well. So I’ve been with computer and even the IT environment propels you. I’ve taken courses with courses with Coursera, Udemy, University of Cape Town online. Udemy trains you in specific university courses. I’ve also trained with Chan Academy. How has the journey being in the market? When we started, it was because we identified an opportunity. But any broker would tell you that last year was one of the worst on the Nigerian stock market, because of what they called the Bear Market. That’s when prices drop because of political uncertainty, economic fluctuations and so on and so forth. So prices dropped and at a point we were even down in our investments by as much as N9million. But because of the experience I’ve had in the market, I knew that it was a matter of how we managed the portfolio to mitigate against such loss. So in our trading, what we do is when we see a stock dropping and it is a viable stock, we move in and buy more to average the cost. If it is a non-performing stock and we see a loss up to a particular level, we sell off to minimise our loss and free our capital to invest in another stock. That way, our capital is not eroded. By December, we had virtually broken even again. Yesterday when we closed trading, we were five percent up in profit (N58.5million). Our target is to make 40percent, and the way we’re going, we are going to surpass that target. When did you invest this N56.6 million? June last year. All things being equal, we would have made between 40 and 50 percent profit by June this year, and then we’re going to end the cycle and share the profit. How can interested people join up? This cycle will continue till June 30 when we’ll share profit; then those who are interested would be able to join up. You are a professional police officer, doesn’t this affect your job in anyway? The constitution guarantees the right of all individual to freedom of association. You can belong to a cub as long as that club is not a cult or secret society. We are a voluntary group in an investment club, who have pulled our resources together and bear the risks in proportion to our investment. We are not doing anything illegal or against the code of conduct, so we cannot attract any kind of query. But if it happens, I have sufficient ground in law and in the constitution to defend myself. Suffice it to say that I have never in my 30 years of service, attracted a query. Also, it does not clash with my job. In Addis Ababa, where I have worked for four years, my job is flexible. I am the police coordinator and I set parameters and design work tasks for my colleagues. I can structure my work in a way that I set my orders in the market within five to ten minutes, go back to my work, come back to check for another five minutes, and at the end of the day, I take a final look, close the market and do a report to my club members. So, it does not in any way affect my performance. It may interest you that the AU have on two occasions requested that my contract be extended and Nigeria agreed. Can you let us a bit into your educational background? I read Botany in Ife, Plant Science (1988) and obtained Masters in Legal, Criminal and Security Psychology at the University of Ibadan in 2005. I’ve studied in England (UN Peace-Keeping and Operations), California, Naval Post Graduate School, where I studied International Defence Management; I did Supply Chain Management at the University of Cape Town, and later Property Development and Investment at the same University of Tape town.