The All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused Ogun state governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun of sponsoring political thugs to cause violence and embarrass President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders during the party’s Presidential campaign rally in Ogun state on Monday. Political thugs disrupted the campaign rally at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abeokuta, throwing stones and sachet water at the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and other party leaders for refusing to bow to the dictate of the governor and have his preferred candidate fly the party flag as governorship candidate. The APC governorship candidate in the state, Dapo Abiodun has also been attacked by the same political thugs on two previous occasions while on campaign in the state. National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu said in a statement that the party will not condone such act of indiscipline and will take appropriate disciplinary measure against the sponsors of the attack after the elections. The statement reads: “The All Progressives Congress (APC) regrets Monday’s premeditated attacks sponsored by Governor Ibikunle Amosun on President Muhammadu Buhari and other senior party leaders at the venue of the presidential campaign rally in Ogun State. “This is one act of indiscipline too many. The APC will not condone acts of indiscipline, indiscretion and anti-party activities from any party member no matter how highly placed. “The party will review this gross misconduct of deliberately positioning thugs to attack and embarrass the President and the party’s leadership. The party will take a decision on this matter immediately after the elections. It must be stated that party supremacy and discipline according to our constitution are not matters of choice but binding principles which must be adhered to by all party members. “The APC is a party known for discipline, justice, fairness and equality; hence any plan to destroy what this party stands for would be rejected. No single person will be allowed to put his personal and selfish interests ahead of the wishes of the people of Ogun state and elsewhere. “Post primaries, the decision of the National Working Committee to uphold the wishes of party members is unbendable. Therefore, whatever means being presently deployed by persons intending to undermine the wishes of the people for personal gains will not be tolerated. “We urge our teeming party supporters and members not to be disturbed by Monday’s condemnable incident. We urge all to continue trooping out enmasse for our remaining campaigns and vote massively for ALL and ONLY APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections.“