Nineteen-year-old Usman Daniel, a Federal University of Lokoja (FULOK), Kogi State fresher, had looked forward to resuming with his colleagues in school next month. But that is not to be. He was killed by a stray bullet while attempting to exercise his franchise during the last weekend’s elections. ISRAEL AROGBONLO reports. • Lokoja varsity student gunned down by stray bullet The late 19-year-old Usman Daniel, like every other Nigerian, woke up last Saturday with a desire: to exercise his voting right for the first time since he attained suffrage age. He earnestly looked forward to that day, which, unfortunately, was his last on earth. Usman, who just got admission to study Physics at the Federal University Lokoja (FULOK), was killed by a stray bullet. He died during the pandemonium that broke out at the Atejashi polling unit where he, with many others, went to cast their votes. All of a sudden, and from nowhere, gunshots by some political thugs, which had voters scampering for safety, hit the young man and cut short his dream of being a graduate of Physics. His lifeless body lay in a pool of his blood. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that a campus journalist named Jeff Friday announced Usman’s sudden death on social media in the early hours of Saturday. According to an unnamed source,  the deceased was said to be a victim of circumstance. “He (the deceased) was standing on his own at the polling unit when some political thugs came and started shooting sporadically into the air. At this point, we all took to our heels as the shooting heightened. Unfortunately, he died as a result of a stray bullet that hit him while he was about escaping the scene of the incident. The security operatives on guard could not even help the matter as everyone left the poor boy helpless for hours. It was really an eyesore,” the source said. A family friend of the deceased, who identified herself as D’Taigress, described the incident as strange and pathetic: “Daniel was my good friend. He just gained admission and was supposed to resume fully next month (March) when he lost his dreams to death (sobs).” Though FULOK is on strike till date, Thomas Emmanuel, the Students’ Union (SU) Public Relations Officer of Kogi State University (KSU), on whose domain Usman was gunned down, described the incident as an infringement on the fundamental human rights of students. Thomas urged youths to shun electoral violence. “For me, I don’t think Daniel was wrong for going out to exercise his voting right,” Thomas told CAMPUSLIFE in a phone conversation. He continued:“Though his death is painful, I have nothing much to say than extend my condolences to the family for this great loss. This was a boy who posted on his Facebook timeline a few hours to the election that youths should shun violence, not knowing that he would die by what he preached against.  My advice to the youths is to disengage themselves from electoral violence in subsequent elections so as to improve on our democracy. They should also desist from being used as thugs by politicians to fulfil selfish desires,” he said. A student of the Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja, Ikupolati Stephen Sunday, also gave his own side of the story. “This guy (the deceased) was neither a political thug nor a ballot box snatcher. He was only trying to exercise his franchise and in the process paid the supreme price.  The Nigeria Constitution guarantees the right of association and political affiliation; so, why this killing?” Ukpojo Dorcas, a church member of the deceased, described him as God-fearing and easy going, adding that he was committed to church activities during his lifetime. A sympathiser, Philipina Okeke, praised the deceased’s high level of patriotism. “He (the deceased) paid with his life because he went to exercise his civic right. If he were at home, they would have questioned him for refusing to vote. Now that he went to exercise his franchise, he paid with his life. My condolence to his family members and loved ones. Adieu to one of the greatest youths of our time,” she said. The deceased’s friend Emmanuel Egorp expressed his heartfelt grief over the incident. “Very sad story indeed!” Emmanuel posted on his facebook page. He continued: “And the most painful is that because it was carried out by some political thugs, the security personnel around will claim ignorance and would not do the needful to bring the culprits to book.” CAMPUSLIFE learnt that the deceased’s remains have been taken to his home town, Ankpa area of Kogi State as at the time of filling this report. A security operative told CAMPUSLIFE that investigation has already commenced on the matter, adding that whoever is found culpable would face the music.