Political slogans are easy to discredit, if the forces behind them are just the run-of-the-mill politicians. But, experience has shown that slogans, which become street language and resonate with all segments of the society may be hard to put down. This seems to be the situation in  Kwara State where O to ge (enough is enough), a political slogan adopted by the main opposition APC, appears to have assumed a life of its own among Kwarans at home and abroad. The term simply means that the people have had enough of the political leadership of Senator Bukola Saraki who the opposition accuses of stifling development and growing his political dynasty at the expense of the state. Saraki’s followers have responded to the increasingly popular lingo with another refrain Otunya, which means ‘onward with Saraki’s rule’. However, the O to ge movement seems to be gaining more grounds with prominent apolitical groups, and individuals expressing tacit support for a new dawn in Kwara. In a video that has gone viral on the social media, revered head of the Markaz Islamic and Arabic Centre Agege Sheikh Habeebullah Adam el-ilory was seen saying the Sarakis are not the only ones in Kwara and time is indeed ripe for a change of guard. “Many Kwarans condemned Mohammed Lawal in 2003, but it is now clear that they had made a wrong choice of a new leader. Lawal had his own shortcomings, which I told him one-on-one. But, the difference between him and the current political leadership is clear. So, others should now be given a chance to run the state too,” the scholar said at a recent lecture in Ilorin. Qomorudeen Ayeloyun, a multiple award-winning Islamic singer and Ilorin indigenes, has also released a video clip condemning, the “stagnation and stunted growth” in Kwara. “We have heard enough. O to ge, oh my God, it is enough. This state has remained the same in terms of lack of development and creativity in governance. We must move on now,” he said. This lamentation appears to be a global phenomenon among Kwarans, especially non-politicians. The old and young shout O to ge everywhere in the state,. especially during recent political rallies.. The icing on the cake was the unanimous endorsement penultimate Sunday of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq by the Kwarans in Lagos, an adhoc amalgam of indigenes of Kwara in the country’s commercial capital and environs. The Teslim Balogun Stadium venue of the event was filled to the brim as indigenes of the state gathered in honour of AbdulRazaq. Attendees included businessmen and women, professionals, academics, artisans, broadcasters and famous artistes such as Saheed Balogun, Wasiu Sodiq, and Ibrahim Labaeka. Some of other prominent personalities at the event included AbdulRazaq himself; House of Representatives member Tunji Olawuyi; Muhammad Dele Belgore SAN; Barrister Kunle Sulaiman; Senator Khairat Gwadabe; former information commissioner AbdulRaheem Adedoyin; House of Assembly member Saheed Popoola; and former local government chairmanship candidate for Ilorin West Musibau Eshinrogunjo.. Sodiq, one of Nigeria’s most famous Islamic singers and an indigene of Kwara, said the state must turn the page on a political model that “strips our people of their humanity while the state remains stagnant like a pond.” Abdul Muyideen Akorede, coordinator of Kwarans in Lagos coalition, said the event was symbolic as it was the first time indigenes of the state in the diaspora will speak with one voice on the political situation back home. “We have resolved to end the tyranny in our state Kwara. The state must be saved from the clutches of oppression. No physical development, no companies, infrastructure is zero. It’s time we ended this. O to ge,” he said, backing AbdulRazaq’s aspiration. “Kwarans in Lagos and the diaspora express their unflinching support for this movement. Kwarans are not lazy. We are a productive people and we condemn the underdevelopment in our state. Our support is contingent on the condition that the new administration will do things differently. On behalf of Kwarans, I assure you of our unflinching support. We will mobilise our people to vote for you in the polls.” 