The HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 is set to take the Nigerian market by storm, blending advanced technology and trendy design at an affordable price. Huawei understands Nigerian’s behavior and needs, catering to their intensive social media use and tech-savvy nature with this high-quality smartphone, empowering them to unlock their potential, hence bringing to the market the first smartphone with the latest Dewdrop Display. 2019 is about new trends and great technology going mainstream, so let us dive right into the hip features of this newly launched gem! A huge screen with the Dewdrop The HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 displays 6.26 inch pearl-shaped notch – and one of the smallest Huawei notches to date and maximizes the amount of screen to users, becoming much higher than the industry body-to-screen ratio average, enabling the best video and gaming experience possible. Intricately placed in the middle of the device, the dewdrop notch does not disrupt the symmetry of the frontal view, making the display easy on the eyes.  Great camera, incredible selfies The smartphone features 13+2MP dual cameras, the front one being a 16MP one. The primary 13MP camera enables the user to take a portrait with clear separation between the primary object and background through the use of a shallow depth of field effect, or a landscape photo where every object in its field of view is clean and crisp. Powered by AI, the camera has the ability to recognize objects in order to adjust colors accordingly, taking shots as best as possible. It can recognize objects across 22 different categories, most of which come from scenarios predicted to be encountered in today’s youth adventures such as ‘Dog’, ‘Cat’, ‘Beach’, ‘Waterfall’, ‘Text’ and more. Moreover, the camera’s low light is highly advanced. Once Night Mode is enabled, the HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 digitally stitches together four photos taken in quick succession to produce an output that is clean and full of details. A similar method is also used for its HDR Mode where the device combines three images into one for improved color vibrancy and backlit performance.  A huge battery Knowing how much time Nigerians spend on their phones, the HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 houses a large 4000mAh battery, providing more than one-day worth of usage even for the most intensive users. That means even if a user forgets to charge the device overnight, it will still let them get through the next day with minimal use.  Excellent identification methods HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 features two highly efficient unlock features that help protect users’ privacy, while remaining fast and easy to use.  Leveraging AI and the front camera, the device can authenticate the identity of a user through the Face Unlock 2.0 feature, and unlock the device quickly, so users can dive right back into action. The second feature is the Fingerprint 4.0 identification technology, which allows users to unlock the device in less than 0.37 seconds. In addition, the fingerprint sensor also supports multiple functions, allowing users to take photo/video, stop alarm, answer call, browse photos or show the notification panel, and more. This makes the device extra handy!  No need for Nigerians to splurge for an expensive smartphone to get the features or digital quality they seek – the HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 makes great photography and technology accessible. The HUAWEI Y7 Prime 2019 will be available for Pre-Order on Jumia and leading retailers across Nigeria from the 4th of March, 2019. As part of Pre-Order, Huawei will also be gifting customers with free Bluetooth Speakers with purchases of the smartphone for a limited time.