Intervention is urgently required to safeguard the future of the nation’s dairy as it deals with operating costs which are dramatically higher than key global competitors, an expert, Udeme Etuk, has said. Etuk, Managing Director of Chanan Elo’a  Integrated Farms Limited, who spoke in Lagos,   made a strong case   for enhancing the livestock value chains to reduce poverty levels among rural households, most of whom are small and marginal farmers. He said the   red meat sector is a really important link in the agribusiness supply chain, adding that it was vital that industry and government are on the same page when it comes to boosting competitiveness and bringing operating costs under control. Etuk, said the  dairy industry is challenged  by  poorly developed cold chain infrastructure; unavailability of veterinary health services; inadequate availability of fodder in all seasons; lack of use of scientific practices in milching; poor quality of fodder and inadequate transportation facilities.He said stakeholders in the dairy sub-sector are advocating for zero per cent import duty on all processing equipment. Etuk said the three billion dollars business had not experienced any huge development in value addition as a result of lack of processing equipment, especially in the powdered milk section. According to him, there should be zero per cent customs duty on cold-chain vehicles, milk tanks, veterinary, laboratory, logistics equipment and a three-year tax holiday for producers of dairy products. “We recommend zero per cent import duty on dairy equipment, like cold chain, milk collection logistics, transport equipment, milk tanks, veterinary tools, laboratory equipment and others. “To help the sector develop in terms of adding value and improving quality and production of milk and other dairy products which are not available in Nigeria.” “Also, a minimum of three years tax holidays for dairy producers to enable the industry grow,” he said. Etuk also suggested that restrictions should be placed on liquid milk and milk production because quality of locally produced liquid milk could be improved and was available. He said government should retain the existing five per cent duty on full cream and skimmed powdered milk, only because the equipment is not available to produce powdered milk. He urged that 15 per cent duty should be imposed on vegetable fat filled powdered milk because we had not exhausted the nutritional value from local milk. To remain viable, he  said the government must  provide  the enabling  environment for the local  industry to be able to compete against key global players, adding that labour expenses and soaring energy prices, make the  costs of  operation  far greater than those competitors. Fortunately, he noted that there is huge demand in the market. With the sustained growth of the economy and a consequent rise in the purchasing power,he said more and more people are able to afford milk and various other dairy products. He explained that a sustainable processing sector is essential for the entire agribusiness industry, including independent retail butchers, dairy producers, as well as the farmers who sell their stock to processors. Etuk said that it was also important to establish a Dairy Development Fund. “A 15 per cent dairy importation levy should be imposed on all dairy products, including powdered milk, cheese and butter, pull the resources and establish a dairy development fund. “The find will be domiciled in Bank of Industry to provide soft loans to investors in the country. We cannot compete with farmers in Europe because they are heavily subsidised. “There should be a compensation schedule for cattle rearers and a well robust insurance process when they lose one cow. “However, that is where we encourage clusters and ranching for improved dairy production quality, quantity and improve the business,” he said. He also called for five-year import substitution programme for all importers of powdered milk to introduce local content, 10 per cent in the first and second year, then 20 per cent in the third year, 30 per cent in the fourth year and 50 per cent in the fifth year.   