The last exercise asked readers to spot the differences in some pairs of statements. Beating everyone else to it, Mr. Tijani merely chose which of them were correct, without showing why what is correct is correct and what is wrong is wrong. For clarity, permit us to recall the statements in the exercise as follows: Mr. Tijani rejected all the highlighted first statements and correctly accepted all the second statements. Since he did not provide the differences and why his choices are correct, however, we will help him spot the differences and explain his correct answers. First: The wake is starting now The difference between his correct choice above and the incorrect statement in the pair is the malapropism of wake keep for wake. As you are reading this, most obituaries and funeral arrangements in the newspapers contain the error WAKE KEEP. Wake keep is not correct; it is a malapropism of WAKE. The vigil in honour of the deceased about to be buried is a WAKE, not a WAKE KEEP. How we came about this chronic error in Nigeria is elusive. Let us now pull out of the multitudes that have been propagating errors by finally accepting that WAKE is it, not WAKE KEEP. Radio and TV stations in particular should be beware, as they commit the malapropism of wake keep for wake recklessly. This columnist should know because he is chairman of a broadcasting organisation and consultant to others. And many professors of English have been interred with this error by their university governing councils. The Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary (CALD) explains WAKE, which is the appropriate word in the context of a funeral, as what people do “when the family and friends of a dead person meet in order to look at the dead body the night before it is buried, or when they meet after a dead person has been buried to drink and talk about the person’s life.” You could simply also understand a WAKE to be the vigil people keep by a dead body before burial the following day. Forget that some have turned this otherwise solemn affair to a gaudy, ostentatious owambe to herald a gaudier owambe after the burial. Second: This will serve the cause of justice. Two phrases have recurred most frequently as the defenders and accusers of Chief Justice Onnoghen have traded legal genius over the allegation of dishonest declaration of assets. The phrases are: the course of justice and the cause of justice. In most instances, the course of justice has been wrongly used instead of the cause of justice. What we mean is that the course of justice has been a sheer malapropism of the cause of justice in almost all the occurrences. The assumption is that the arcane arguments, pontifications and pleas are in the interest of justice, that is, a socially valuable principle for which people strongly strive. In that sense, the cause of justice is the appropriate phrasing. Third: He is rooting for the president. The issue here is the often comical confusion of the words route and root. Yes, both can serve as verbs, but never to be used interchangeably, because they mean different things. To root for somebody is “to show support for someone who is in a competition or who is doing something difficult” (CALD). So, it is laughable to say someone is routing for Atiku in the ongoing electioneering in Nigeria, but you are absolutely correct to say you are rooting for Buhari. When talking of channeling something through somewhere, you can then talk of routing, as in routing your memo to your director through your supervisor. Fourth: His community welcomed him with great fanfare. In the faulty entry Mr. Tijani rejected, the strange noun phrase fan fair is a malapropism of fanfare, which is the correct usage. Fanfare is “a loud short piece of music played usually on a trumpet and to introduce the arrival of someone important” (CALD). Fan fair does not just exist in the English language. Thus, it is certainly a wrong expression in the construction. So, the community could only have welcomed their own with great fanfare, NOT fan fair. The danger in malapropisms is that in each instance somebody is teaching someone nonsense, thereby propagating errors and confusion. Fifth: We are not productive, unlike our immediate forebears. Forebearers, the word featured in the faulty entry in the exercise, is alien to the English language; hence, its rejection is absolutely in order. So, whenever your computer, as “dumb” as it could be sometimes, marks forebearers out as problematic, just accept its prompting. For, it is simply an egregious malapropism of forebears, which is the word required in the context. Forebears are a people’s ancestors, that is, their relations who lived in the past. With the invention of forebearers in place of forebears, some weird “neologist” is certainly teaching us nonsense.