· Fish out killers, PDP gov candidate tells El-Rufai’s The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has called on all affected Fulanis to remain calm and resist all forms of provocation to consider reprisal attacks over the killings in Kajuru local government of Kaduna State last week. Also, Kaduna State PDP gubernatorial candidate, Isa Mohammed Ashiru, called on relevant security agencies to prosecute criminals who carried out the killings. MACBAN and Ashiru, in their separate reactions on Monday, commended Governor Malam Nasir el-Rufai for being proactive in ensuring the situation was brought under control and prevent any form of reprisal attack in the troubled area. The Assistant Women Leader MACBAN, Hajiya Khadijah Ardido, told reporters it was unfortunate and most painful that people were killed with reckless abandon, including women and children. She lamented the killings were being denied by people who have no human feelings. “As I speak to you now, some of the injured victims are still in the hospital. It is painful that Fulanis are being killed not only in Kaduna state but in several other parts of the country and little or nothing is being done about it. “The government must rise to this challenge and stop all forms of unwarranted killings, there must be respect for human lives,” she stressed. She went on: “Our people have always been very patient and tolerant and I am still encouraging them to remain patient, disciplined and tolerant in the face of any provocation. “As a mother, I am calling on my people not to revolt. Those killing should know that they are doing the wrong thing, particularly killing innocent women and children. “The government should ensure that proper investigation is carried out and whoever is found guilty should be made to face the full wrath of the law, at least to serve as deterrent to others now and in the future. “Justice must be done to the affected in the killings and the step taken by Governor Nasir el-Rufai towards bringing to justice all those who have hands in the killing is a commendable one” Ashiru said the incident was not only an unwanted addition to the list of the past similar ones but clear indication that insecurity still remains a huge challenge in some parts of Kaduna State. According to him: “It is with an absolute shock that I received the news broken by the Kaduna State Governor, of the murder of many people in some settlements in Kajuru Local Government Area of our dear Kaduna State. “The fact that the loss of human lives has been confirmed makes the whole issue terribly shocking. The act clearly smacks of callousness and a descent into barbarism. “I, therefore, wish to express my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, people of Kajuru Local Government Area as well as the Government and the entire people of Kaduna State over this unfortunate incident. “It is my fervent prayer that almighty who God created those souls will expose the perpetrators of the heinous act.” He added: “Let me quickly remind my dear good people of Kaduna State of the need to embrace peace and eschew violence so that the diversity with which Almighty God has endowed us can be harnessed for the good of all of us. “Our State is big, bountiful and rich enough to accommodate all of us; all we need to do is to continuously remind ourselves of the fact that resort to violence has never benefitted us as a people. In fact, such an act which results in the loss of human lives diminishes us as a people. “We should therefore endeavour to come together, regardless of political, religious or ethnic differences, to let the world know that we are committed to ridding our state of violence and at the same time willing to live as the true brothers and sisters that we have always been. “While I once again condole with the bereaved families, I also wish to re-assure everyone again that my bid to clinch the governorship of Kaduna State is driven by both an immense concern for our people and a total determination to rescue the State from misrule.“