The All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party are neck to neck in the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Edo State. No official results have been announced as collation of results was still going on at each Ward. Former Governor Adams Oshiomhole and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress thrashed the PDP at his polling unit at Iyamho and Governor Godwin Obaseki won at his polling unit at Emokpae primary school. Elections were generally peaceful across Edo State except in some polling units at Egor where ballot boxes were set ablaze. Those that spoke hailed the conduct of the elections. In some areas, there were initial malfunction of the card readers but they were later rectified. In Edo South where Senator Matthew Urhoghide and Patrick Obahiagbon are in the race, unofficial results showed there were clear winner yet. For the House of Representatives seat on Ovia Constituency, Dennis Idahosa of the All Progressives Congress maintained a lead in his stronghold while Barr. Omosede Igbinedion held on to Okada, her hometown. Hon Ehiozuwa Agbonnayima took the lead in Ikpoba-Okha while his opponent, Jude Ise-Idehen is said to win in some wards in Egor. Edo State Commissioner of Police, in charge of elections, Dan-Malam Mohammed who visited several polling in company of the lnter-Agencies Consultatives Committee on Elections warned policemen not to allow anybody enter INEC office. His words, “Make sure you work with the names on your list. you know lNEC office is very vital during collation of results, make sure is properly secure.” A visit to the Edo college, in Ward 8, in Oredo local government in units 27 to 30, the security agencies made up of Army, DSS, Custom, NCSDC, lmmigration and others to verify the situation on ground, the PDP and APC agents complains about shortage of sensitive materials like ballot papers and othe logistics plights to the police. ln Udo, Ovia South West, ballot boxes were snatched and a suspect was arrested with arms and ammunition. Police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor confirmed the arrest.