Kwara state All Progressives Congress ( APC ) has described the protest by some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youths against the appointment of Kayode Egbetokun as new commissioner of police of the state as abnormal. Scores of PDP on Thursday this week staged a peaceful protest in Ilorin, the state capital kicking against the deployment of CP Egbetokun to the state ahead of the forthcoming elections. In a statement, APC spokesperson in the state Tajudeen Aro said: “The basis for the jaundiced position was that Egbetokun at a time in his professional career was the Chief Security Officer (CSO) to Lagos State Governor, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “However, no one, so far has been able to point a definite, legally justifiable finger for the purported bias of the newly posted Commissioner of Police expected to oversee the conduct of upcoming elections in the state. “The time has come to separate the wheat from the chaff in Kwara politics and the apprehension exhibited by the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state by sponsoring the recent rally is needless. “This apprehension stems from the fact that this is apparently the only election period that the tyrannical political dynasty in the state would not have the direct or indirect control of the police in the prosecution of its nefarious political agenda. “We think it is necessary to puncture the PDP’s posturing through the sponsorship of faceless group to discredit Egbetokun’s appointment. “Their line of reasoning is a fallout of the politics of 2003, when the then Commissioner of Police posted to oversee the general elections was an aide of Senator Olusola Saraki, during his reign as Leader of the Senate in the second republic. “The hatchet job by the then CP is left for posterity to judge. Could it be fear of retributive justice? “This is a new era where votes must count and President Mohammad Buhari is one who will not compromise his integrity in the pursuance of a credible election. “We expect the PDP to put a measure of dignity in their approach to issue of security, especially when preparing for eventualities. “It is in this light, we pray for wisdom for the PDP in the state.“