An academic staff in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Federal University of Technology (FUT), Minna, Mr. Lawal Sadiq, has invented a multi-functional mobile teaching laboratory for science teachers in secondary schools across the country. Speaking in Kaduna, at the workshop on the use of the mobile laboratory for secondary schools in Kaduna State, Prof Moses Olutoye, who represented the Vice Chancellor of FUTMINNA, Prof Abdullahi Bala, expressed satisfaction and excitement about the importance of the equipment. He said: “We have brought this equipment for the benefit of students in Kaduna. It was 100 per cent made in Nigeria. It was a product of a research in our university. “When this project was in incubation, we protected it so it could  not be duplicated in any part of the world. We believe in technology for development. This is a project from FUT that has now been commercialised for the good of the students. “The students who are the end users will benefit tremendously. The equipment has taken the place of conventional laboratories where you spend a lot of money to set up. WAEC or NECO can no longer tell you that you cannot do science subject because there is a no laboratory. This equipment itself is laboratory”. Also speaking, Director, Sabon Tasha Zonal Education Office, Mr. Joshua Ayuba, who represented Kaduna State Commissioner of Education, Science and Technology, said: “We are thankful to the VC for this occasion. The lack of effective utilisation of appropriate methods of teaching is another factor that affects learning outcome in our schools. “I want to thank the inventor of these instructional materials for the scientific ideas and innovation he put together as a device which will be used to promote science and technology” He advised young scientists and technologists to work hard towards improving the innovation in quest for new technology devices. “This government will continue to partner with any inventor to uplift the teaching of science and technology in the state,” he added. Earlier, Director, FUTMIN Ventures, a subsidiary of the Federal University of Technology, Aminu Mohammed Ashafa, said:  “For us as a university, we have been at the forefront of novel researches that are not just meant for staff promotion rather for the provision of solutions to societal challenges with the sole aim of advancing the fortunes of the society and the world at large. “This project is just one of the many inventions by our faculty member aimed at making the teaching of science subjects easier for teachers and for the students to comprehend with ease based on its hands-on methodological approach with practical and well tested style of teaching delivery. “This training is in line with the core mandate of tertiary institutions all over the world which centres on teaching, research and community services. I am glad to inform this gathering that the Federal University of Technology, Minna under the able leadership of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof.  Abdullahi Bala  is  desirous  and  committed  to  the  promotion  of harmonious relationship between the town and gown. “Science education is very important to the development of any nation; that is why nations must take it very serious from basic, secondary and tertiary institutions of learning. Considerable research has shown that many of the advanced nations were able to achieve so much in science and technology because of science education.