For the Etara and Ekuri Eyeyeng communities Etung local government area of Cross River State, these are not the best of times following the bulldozing of the farmlands and forests for the Superhighway project which passes through the area. Members of the communities, especially farmers in the area complained that the first time such clearing was done in 2017, no one had gotten back to them to compensate for the loss of their source of livelihood. Our reporter, who was in the area, observed that a large expanse of farmland had been recently bulldozed, along the Okuni axis, in another attempt to get on with the construction of the road. The communities however have made it clear that they really do want the superhighway to be constructed as it would improve their lives, given that it would pass close to their communities, but whatever attendant loss that goes with it should be properly addressed. Prince Simon Ifere, who presented the position of the communities on the issues after a peaceful protest by some members of the communities, said, they welcome all developmental partnerships with government and non-governmental organisations that promise good life for the people, posterity and the sustainable use of their natural resources for today and the future generation yet unborn. “We have resolved that we welcome government’s intention and desire to create the superhighway. However we have observed from the period government made its declaration on the superhighway, the wanton destruction of our farmland, forests etc, and the extreme hardships and hunger of our people. “We therefore request with immediate government’s intervention by carrying our proper assessment of farmlands and everything destroyed by the superhighway and commensurate compensation should be paid. In line with international best practices, we wish to see the Environmental Impact Assessment vis-à-vis sustainable development of our forest resources, access to god road, water, healthcare etc as part of our benefits for the total support we are giving government. “Our wish is to have the benefit of enjoying above within the timeframe of the present government. On behalf of Etara and Ekuri Eyeyeng communities this is our position. If government would be able to come to our aid and see that all what we have asked here is carried out, we would be one of the happiest communities in this place,” he said. A community leader, Mr Hart Akpama, said their problem started in 2017. “That was when they started the clearing and now they have started the second phase of it, which is the dressing of the road from the Okuni axis. For the crops we have lost, we have cocoa farms, yam farms, we also have bush mangoes. The bush mangoes we have in our forests, these are the ones we were harvesting to get money for ourselves. Most of these trees have been bulldozed. So we are facing a lot of hardship. So if government can come to our aid to see how they can alleviate these problems we would be very grateful. They have not promised us compensation before. We are putting this to them now, so they come to our aid. This is the first time we are presenting this to them. The clearing that was done in 2017, we were taken by surprise. Before we knew, they had crossed. If the government does not respond, we have to continue dialoging with them until we bring them down.” Mr Michael Odora, is farmer in the area, who is into cocoa and plantain. Recounting his ordeal, he said, “In 2016 people came in that they were sent by the government to come and carry out the super highway. That is when we started hearing about the superhighway. When they came, they said the government sent them to come and see how they can open the road from here, which is a good thing. We loved that, after which they came in. We received them and we now asked them what and what are they going to do? We asked if they came with enumerators to come and enumerate what they are going to destroy. They said no, that whatever they destroy they should put it in records and send to him and we said okay, we gave them the opportunity and worked with them and they worked on the road. “But since then we have not heard from them. Personally I lost a farm, 45 metres by 270 metres of farmland. I farmed cocoa and plantain but it was destroyed. It has affected by life very negatively. I find it difficult to feed my family. My children are in school. I find it difficult to pay their fees and even as we speak, they are disturbing them up and down. We are crying to the government to see how they can help our people because our people are suffering as a result of that. We actually need the road, but something should be done because our things were destroyed.” Paul Akpanya, another farmer lamented the project cleared out his entire farmland. ”I am a farmer that the superhighway crossed my farm from end to end. Right from that time, we kept asking what we are going to take to survive after government said this road would come and pass. Right from that time till now, we have not seen anything. My children are in school. Some are in the university. A lot of farmers are affected. We are eager that the road should come and pass but we have not gotten anything. So I don’t know how we would manage to survive. I farmed cocoa, plantain, banana, palm and plantain. I have been sustaining myself by going into buying cocoa. But I would have been doing much better with my own farm,” he complained. Clan Head of Etara Clan, HRH Magnus Oke Ebutu, said the value forests and farmland destroyed in the area runs into hundreds of millions of naira. “Ours is that we want the road. We want the superhighway. We are very happy. If the road comes closer to us as it is passing closer to us, we are happy because our journey would be very short, but let the government see us. See our bush mango is destroyed. All our crops and trees destroyed. Please let the government help us. You too help us talk to government to help us,” he begged.