National Leader of the All Progressives Congress(APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has told Kwarans to work towards breaking the hold of Senate President Bukola Saraki, who he accused of holding them captive for years. He said the state will be rescued from Saraki, who he described as a traitor and serial betrayer. Tinubu spoke on Monday during the presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: “This is celebration of Kwara state’s freedom. It’s been long they have been swindling your collective patrimony. And Bukola Saraki is being that. “We are not here for conspiracy. We are not here to quarrel with the Saraki dynasty as Gbemisola Saraki is with us. “She is a scion of the Sarakis. We are here to reject overlordship. We are here to say no to Bukola’s enslavement. He is a betrayal. We are chastising Bukola Saraki. This is the celebration of the fall of Berlin Wall. “This is the celebration of the end to oligarchy; the Emperor that has been existing for years.” National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiohmole told the crowd of supporters that the end of Saraki dynasty had come. “For Bukola it is finished. I cannot wait till Saturday for Kwara people to celebrate their new found freedom. Also it will be a day for Kwara people and for Nigerian politicians that the evil that their political son has done to their political father has befallen him. “Suffice to say that for 16 years Bukola has underdeveloped Kwara and has controlled governor more than the master controls his cook. “He has reduced Kwarans to mere beggars in their own political and economic life. “The confession of Bukola Saraki after his defection from APC exposes him as a selfish politician. To him politics is about juicy jobs. “That is why I am happy to be here to see the actual translation of enough is enough. “Everything that has a beginning must have an end. It is the day the people that have been at the receiving make up their mind to confront the oppressors that the oppression is over. “That is the case of Kwara and the case of Bukola. I join you the people of Kwara to celebrate your new found freedom.” Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed said: “on November 17th by-election I said our party has broken the Berlin wall of Kwara politics. “I said then that we will repeat the same thing during the 2019 elections. “The elections are now here. It is time to retire those who have held the state down and make our people and our state very poor. “They have been deceiving the people. They have been blaming the Federal Government for their failure. “When they can’t pay workers’ salaries they blame the Federal Government, when they cannot provide road they blame the Federal Government. Voting them is giving them license to continue to loot. “They say the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has not done anything in Kwara state. Tell them it is a big lie.” He reeled out the major infrastructural achievements of the government in the state. State chairman of APC Bashir Bolarinwa said the state under the Saraki oligarchy had been underdeveloped, saying “as a first generation state our infrastructure and institutions do not depict our status. “We unfortunately are too behind other states created much later. It is a pity. We prayed, we hoped and made a decision that we are indeed tired of this group of reincarnate of the biblical Pharaoh. “But Kwarans have decided that our own Pharaoh must let Kwara go. “Today’s rally is a culmination of our collective resolve of people to declare and let it resonate clearly that ‘enough is enough’ indeed.”