Actress Vivian Metchie, who was off the screen for 14 years, having been bedridden for most parts of 2014 as a result of an undisclosed illness, is back to playing lead roles in some satellite series. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, she speaks on her return, religion and other issues. TELL us about your sojourn into Nollywood I will say I stumbled on an audition. It was Charles K’s ‘Dangerous’ that year; I think 1996. I got the role and others that came after. Then ‘Candle Light’ by Zeb Ejiro; I got the role, lost it and got it back. Since then, I have featured in some movies by some filmmakers, including Shan George. What would you say was a significant point in your career? I would say now, it can only get better from here. What movie brought you to limelight? The movie that brought me into fame was the series by Zeb Ejiro, ‘Candle Light’, where I played the madam of Do Good. Who were your contemporaries when you started off? Shan George, Kate Henshaw, I met them in Nollywood. And I had the opportunity to work with some of the best actors like Bob Manuel Udokwu, Kanayo. O . Kanayo and Tony Umez when I just started. How long have you been acting? From 1996 till now, that is like 23 years. You were off the scene for a while, what happened? Yes I took a break; 14 years. But I am back. I got married, started raising a family. I became a wife, mother of one, then two, three, four. It was pretty much of a work then and there was no spare time. I had to make out time for the children and that took me off the scene. How does it feel, coming back after the break? It has not been an easy ride, but I am grateful to God. I did Funke Akindele’s ‘Majele Ife’, and came back with Stephanie’s ‘Dry’. And the rest is history. It has not been easy because if you leave a place, people replace you, but I have been able to find a ground to stand now. What would you have ventured into if you had retired? Nothing; I studied theatre Arts. This is what I love to do. I don’t think I plan to do anything else and I have no plan to retire soon. I am going to act till the last breath. I love my job. Tell us about the series, ‘My Siblings & I’ It is one of the biggest things that have happened to me in recent time. I mean Funke Akindele is a darling, an angel that has earned her wings. She calls me and says ‘there is this role’.  Before that, she had called me to do ‘Induststreet’, ‘Jenifa’s Dairy’ and called me for the role in ‘My Siblings & I’. We have this relationship… she just sees the potential. The series is about a family with seven children, and I have the privilege to work with talented and dedicated crew. How often do you get roles and how do you manage them? Last year was pretty busy. This year started off equally busy. And how I manage? It has to do with schedule. So, it is simple. If there is a role for a particular date, you can come out clean with another producer that called in for the same date and let them know. There is no way you can do two jobs on the same date. So you need to reschedule. Tell us about your new found religion It is no longer a new found religion. And I think it is an over-flagged issue too. I mean, if you google my name, about five stuffs will come out on it. And I am not going to talk about it anymore. It was pretty much an easy switch. Who are those that inspire you? Funke Akindele on this part. Who is your favourite actor? (Laughs) My favourite actor is Odunlade Adekole. He is a versatile actor. In Hollywood, Idris Elba. Would you still give marriage another chance? I don’t know for now. I am more into my career and my children. But I cannot say never. How do you manage to switch roles? That, as a plus, comes pretty easy. I am not trying to blow my own horn, I am a magnificent actor. My ability to interpret roles sometimes shocks me. I am not being proud; but when you got it, you got it. Some of us are just born with it. What are your plans for your coming birthday? I don’t know what my manager has planned for the day, but I would love to visit a home I just discovered for orphans. I would love to spend time with the children there; after all I am an orphan too. After that, I really want a quiet evening with someone special; don’t ask me who that someone special is. Even me, I don’t know. Anybody that feels that should take me out that evening. What personal work do you have at hand? There is a pet project we are working on; my manager is trying to get things sorted. It is my own little way of giving back to the society. It has a human angle to it; it is a TV show. That is all I can say for now. But Insha Allah, it will kick-off this year. If you were asked to become the president of a country, which country would that be? That would be Nigeria so that I can impact. But I am scared of using the word ‘change’. I can impact my generation and be a listening president before taking my decision. What is your advice to aspiring actors? If you know you have the drive and passion, keep a steady head; a step at a time. Don’t crash your way to the top, because you will crash back, no matter the opportunity given to you. I remember when I first appeared in ‘Evil Genius 1’ and played just a scene licking ice cream at Allen Avenue (Ikeja, Lagos). The scene for Part 2 came up and that upcoming actress got the lead role. That one scene must have struck something and birth the lead role and in Samadora and Carishika. No matter what you are doing, I think you should give it your best. What is it like working with Patrick Doyle? Uncle PD, like I normally call him, is a wonderful actor. He makes filming easy. He gets his script now, and he says ‘let’s start working, I know my lines’. So working with him has been an honour and I would love to work with him again and again. What would you love to change about the film industry? I don’t think I want to change anything, but to improve. It is really heart-breaking to see your colleagues outside the screen not looking good. That is one thing I would love to change and improve; ensuring a good fee is paid to everyone, no matter how little your role is. So that our lives outside TV, not necessarily much, but good, so that we can be able to do certain things by ourselves. It is bad when you see your screen idol outside looking bad, and not being able to cater for themselves. Payment is one thing that I will fight to work on. I know things are hard and our budgets are high, but what is worth doing, is worth doing well. Have you produced any movie? Yes, I have produced like two or three in the mid-2006; Yoruba movies. I also co-produced four of Agatha Amata’s productions.