Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, has urged parents to champion the campaign to demystify the stereotypical belief that girls are not suited to science-related careers. She spoke while giving the opening remark at the SHE Science and Technology Fair organised by the Christopher Kolade Foundation (CKF) at Habour Point, Victoria Island, Lagos. Dr Adebule, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Deputy Governor’s office, Mrs Yetunde Odejayi, also underscored the need to boost girls’ confidence to take up STEM careers. She said: “Though currently girls and women remain underrepresented in the science and technology fields, this is not as a result of difference in intellectual capacity but due to stereotypes of parents who believe it is awkward for girls pursuing successful career paths in this field. “The challenge is therefore on all stakeholders including parents, the teachers and the society to help change the mindset of our girls and demystify the falsehood of science and technology being the stronghold or exclusive rights of boys. Interestingly, CKF did just that during the event as it parraded an array of successful women in STEM who shared their stories with over 532 SS2 and SS3 pupils being supported by the Foundation ot embrace Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). A panel of three women scientists moderated by Mrs Oreoluwa Lesi, CEO, Women’s Technology Centre (W.TEC) to the girls to follow their dreams, put in the hard work, and develop themselves. Mrs Margaret Ajiboye, Sales leader, Cummins West Africa, told how her engineering education and passion for fixing things led her into product specialisation, sales and even a stint as lecturer. She said she was driven by a desire to develop those coming behind. “My training as an engineer is about who is the next person that would replace me. My inspiration is to see myself replicated many young people,” she said. For Mrs Olamide Ayeni-Babajide of Pearl Recycling, life began to take shape following a challenge from her father when she was only seven and wanted to give up because of bullying that she could be the best regardless of what others did around her. She told how her exceptional brilliance led her to a rapid education and successful computer engineering career where she earned as much as 35,000 dollars. However, she said she gave it all up to pursue her passion to rid Lagos of waste by turning waste tires into furniture, jewelry, others. “I earned my pay as an engineer. I worked for six years with my computer engineering certificate. I got almost 10 international certifications. I was being paid 35,000 dollars. But I woke up one day and wanted to resign. I asked myself what I would do if I was not afraid. I told myself I would change the face of waste problem. Today, I am known for my work with Pearl Recycling not as an engineer,” she said. For Country Director of Andela Nigeria, Mrs Omowale David-Ashiru, her message to the girls was continuous self development. Mrs David-Ashiru, who was represented by Taiwo Judah-Ajayi, Senior Director, Human Resource for Andela, counseled the girls to go for roles they may not necessarily qualify for but have the potential to perform in if they eliminate distractions. “Every day you may be faced with things that could make you doubt yourself. It may be true but there is something called potential. Performance is potential minus distraction. Take out the distraction,” she said. The Keynote Speaker, Mrs Onyeche Tifase summed it up with a charge to the girls to have the right attitude and be willing to take up challenges on the job like she did until she became the first woman Managing Director of Siemens Nigeria. “Focus on being the best you can be. Continue to build and believe in yourselves.  Don’t be comfortable; challenge yourself,” she said. Earlier in his welcome address, the founder, CKF, Dr Christopher Kolade, told the girls their future would be determined by decisions they take today.