In this piece, Prince Alfred Adeyanju highlights the challenges confronting the country, which President Muhammadu Buhari will tackle, if re-elected. MUhammadu Buhari (PMB) was the federal commissioner for petroleum Resources on July 1976 under Obasanjo regime he mention the need for urgent Nigerianisation while opening the Nigeria mining geological and metallurgical society seminar on sandstone depositional models for exploration for fossil fuels COL Buhari (PMB) expressed dissatisfaction that 18 years after the first barrel of oil was exported out of this country a satisfactory number of Nigerians were still not holding responsible management positions within the private sector of the oil industries. The man over 40 years back have been nursing in mind the development of individual Nigerians and Nigeria as a nation and had been in series of top government positions in Nigeria Buhari was the Chairman of P.T.F under one of the past government. Col. Abubakar Umar (RTD) in his interview said, I quote “I also have tremendous respect for the discipline of people like Buhari”. Col Umar was the governor of Kaduna State under Gen Babangida regime, he knew PMB very well. PMB took over the leadership mantle of becoming the Nigeria president and commander — in — chief of the armed force on May 29th 2015. The president Mohammadu Buhari inaugural statement in part were quoted as bellow “However, no matter how well organized the government of the federation are they cannot succeed without the support, understanding and co — operation of labour unions, organized private sector the press and civil society organizations. I appeal to employers and workers alike to unite to raising productivity so that everybody will have the opportunity to share increased prosperity. The Nigerian press is the most vibrant in Africa. My appeal to the media today — and this includes the social media — is to exercise its considerable powers with responsibility and patriotism. My appeal for unity is predicated on the seriousness of the legacy we are getting into. With depleted foreign reserves, falling oil prices, leakages and debts, the Nigeria economy is in deep trouble and will require careful management to bring it round and to tackle the immediate challenges confronting us, namely – Boko Haram in surgency niger delta situation, the power shortages, and nempolyment especially among young people. For the longer term, we have to improve the standard of our Education. We have to look at the whole field of medicare. We have to upgrade our dilapidated physical i nfrastucture. The above mentioned extracts concerning some of the many problems confronting the nation are to be examined to determine the extent of some of the achievement so far  actualised by Buhari administration. There are some other challenges bedeviling the country such as the Fuel scarcity incessant kidnappings, armed robber attack, herdsmen / farmers clashes, and cattle rustlings, high prices of food stuff commodities cultism among our youths and ritualists attacks among others. Boko Haram insurgencies heartfelt tensions have drastically reduced since the temporary relocation of the control centers of the armed forced command leadership from Abuja to Maiduguri, to disarm the Boko Haram forces. Completely. Tremendous success was recorded on the release of chibok girls.  Peaceful resolution of the niger delta situation Special adviser to the president and coordinator of the presidential amnesty programme (PAP), Professor Charles Dokubo has promised towards achieving sustainable peace in Niger delta region in accordance with Buhari promises during his inauguration speech to maintain peace, stability and development in the Niger Delta region. Toward these the special adviser said there would be completion of the ongoing vocational center projects, training of the outstanding beneficiaries of government programme, empowerment of already trained and unpowered ex-agitators and review of outstanding contract. The genuine support and expansion of the Nigeria security and civil defense corps (NSCDC) and the Nigeria peace corps contributed a lot to dispute resolution, and checks on the activities of suspected armed robbers, rapist, kidnapper and cultists and Boko Harams who were handed over to appropriate authorities such as the Nigeria police and army in some cases, the setup of peace clinic under administration of PMB in trouble states including Benue, Taraba, Borno, Zamfara, Nasarawa, Niger, Gombe, Abia and Rivers to find lasting resolution to conflict in these state and to win peace in the liberated area since the military won the war against BOKO HARAM was confirmed by the commandant general of (NSCDC) Mr. Abudullai Gana Mohammed.  Corruption fighting and improving biliteral relations Buhari government ¡s committed to fighting corruption to the bearest minimum and possibly to total eradication. Nigerian ought to pay “codus “to the president for his practical moves towards combating the menace to its present minimum stage. PMB can be described as Anti — Corruption crusader, master of peace makers and an average promise keeper because only almighty God is the absolute promise keeper. Buhari in his inaugural speech promised to listen to the grievances of the fellow Nigerians, which he did through numerous means. The chairman of the southern senator forum hope Uzodimma praised president Buhari for his successful visiting to the United State of American for marketing Nigeria Economy image The President raising the hope of more US investment and secured assurance of better bilateral relations. With this development, the US president Donald Trump could not hide his admiration for the goods works of President Mohammadu Buhari when he poured accolades on him for fighting corruption and leading the fight of Africa against terrorism. The US President said, I quote “1 also know that the President has been able to cut that (corruption) down very substantially, we talked about that, he is working on it and they have made a lot of progress and I think they will continue to make a lot of progress.” The Guru of Anti-corruption crusade during his tenure as the military Head of state in 1983 along with his chief of Staff, Supreme headquarters Major, Gen. Tunde ldiagbon established Wai war against Indiscipline which by then and until today embedded into Nigerians the queue habit in banks, bus-stop, canteens, Petrol Station and in many other places. On May 6th, 2015 when PMB was already the President Elect of Nigeria, and awaiting the swearing-in-ceremony expected to take place on  May 2015 President Buhari ordered all security personnel attached to him as well as his official escort to obey traffic rules Buhari was quoted as saying “obedience to the law would be the guiding philosophy of his administration, adding that “Without leadership by example, the ordinary citizen would become copycats of the lawlessness of their leaders the President elect explained that the “Arrogance of Powers, lawlessness and disregard for the rights and convenience of fellow citizens will have no place ¡n his government. Buhari’s recognition for the value of June 12, 1993 election as the fairest in Nigeria dated back to several years, as far back as to June 12,2005 When Buhari, Enahoro, Kalu and others recalled June 12 values. No wonders the President, through his uprightness, shunning ethnicity, and disregard to tribalism, conferred the Winner of June 12, 1993 presidential election, the Late Chief MKO Abiola, the Highest honour in Nigeria “Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR); The honour which is normally Conferred on the holder of the highest office in Nigeria, the President. PMB Government had embarked on completion of abandoned and incomplete projects left by the previous administrations. One could still remember the completed NRC and SDP Secretariats built by President Babangida during his tenure between 1985 and 1993 how many years they were abandoned by successive government which were already covered by bush, before they were at last put into various uses by the government of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999. Low power generations in the past administrations had resulted into Nigeria poor economic situation during which the power generation was 4000MV with the Nigerian population of over 180 million. Towards the end of President Goodluck Jonathan tenure, at a meeting held at the Vice President Namadi Sambo, Office inside the presidential villa, Abuja, as recorded inside “the record keeper” on May 20th, 2015, The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Ambassador Godknows Igali disclosed to State House Correspondents that the epileptic power supply currently experienced throughout the country if allowed to continue would worsen, ongoing industrial action by both the junior and senior staff Unions of NNPC. Buhari administration has improved the power generation from 4000MV to 7500MV under the ministerial expertise of the Honourable minister of power, works, and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola . Adequate Power generation has improved productivities in the private sector industries and has definitely reduced the high price of foodstuff and other commodities.  Tackling unempoyment The unemployment situation in Nigeria in the past governments was highly deplorable as such; it was made prominent in APC party manifesto to be tackled. Some of the steps taken to arrest youth unemployment include the introduction of skills acquisition programmes on various trades through training and empowerment criteria. During the Buhari Administration through revival of Agricultural, solid mineral mining as well as credits to small and medium size business, there are introduction of ‘traders money” and “Money Market”, Microfinance banks were mobilized throughout the states in Nigeria to organise seminars to create awareness to the people for registration into co-operative societies and microfinance banks, to facilitate loans, acquisitions, for the take-off of their various business. There are success recorded in the implementation of the employment of 500,000 graduates, All over the country between 5000 and 10,000 youths are to be registered for training and loan empowerment in each state of Nigeria, through the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) programme. The youths under the programme are to be registered to undergo training on various skilled enterprises and to be empowered financially to become self-employed. Another N-Power programme initiated by the Buhari Administration started since 2016, by December 1st, 2016, at least 200,000 graduates left the countries unemployment club. The N-Power engaged and trained 500,000 unemployed graduates in the areas of education, agriculture and health management, with payment of N30,000 per month for 2 years in their localities. The trained graduates after 2 years would be self-employed and empowered materially and financially. This is one of loudable achievements of Buhari Administration.  Agricultural development and industrialisation The empowerment of farmers and would-be farmers through skillful training, supply of materials, equipments and finance help a lot in boosting agricultural employment and self-employment throughout the country. The farmers are provided with hectares of Land, farming seedlings, chemicals, fertilizers and equipments including tractors for rentage at low and affordable rates. One of the noticeable outcomes are flooding of the markets with garri and Nigerian rice with reduced prices. The creation of enabling atmosphere through the increment in power generation from 4000MV to 7500MV, effective distribution and marketing encouraged investors to come to Nigeria to established industries. The existing industries also increased their productivities. The improved production definely brought down prices of commodities; Mostly rice and garri. The markets in the country are mostly flooded with well-packed Nigerian rice. There was proper enlightment and encouragement of individual, and cooperate bodies to the Functions  of Bank of industry (BOI), Bank of Agriculture (BOA) and (NEXIM) Nigeria Export, Import Bank in Buhari Administration. There was also improvement in the foreign exchange market (FOREX) all these are catalysts for employment. As entrenched in Nigeria Constitution, the position of the President is contestable for two terms, each for four years in the office. President Mohammadu Buhari should be allowed to go for the second term because of his government good  performance during his fist tenure of year 2015 to 2019 and for continuation to complete any outstanding project and embarkment  on the remaining. The need for Buhari to be voted for as the president of Nigeria now become very necessary to actualize the rotation of the president office between the Northern and Southern Nigeria. Buhari has fulfilled a greater percentage of his electioneering campaign promises to Nigerians during his campaign tour in 2015 across the country. PMB should be voted in as president of Nigeria under All Progressive Congress (APC) political party in the coming February 16th 2019 Presidential election to complete his second term tenure, to pave way easily for the Southern Nigerian presentation of Presidential candidates by all the political parties in the year 2023. Otherwise, the victory of any other major political party apart from the incumbent APC party would definitely translate into occupation of the president office for another two term tenure from the year 2019 to 2027, because the victorious major political party would also struggle to come back for second term to win the presidential election of the year 2023. Since independence in 1960 up till date, 14 Head of States and civilian presidents have ruled Nigeria. 9 from North, 5 from south. In the past, some geo-political zones have not had their citizen either becoming Head of State or President of Nigeria. If Nigerians truly want peace and unity, let us put in our constitution the rotation of the office of the President, let us follow it honestly and sincerely. Let President Tenure be a term of 6 years in office. In many advanced countries, the electorate vote for their political parties according to their manifestoes and capabilities of their candidates and not for money. It is crystal clear that the APC political party manifesto lay emphasis on their pursuit for “Good Governance”, while the PDP manifesto put, premium on “restructuring Nigeria”, with no particular areas or what to be restructured, which I believe would result to mare political gym stick, because the North has never hide their opposition to any type of restructuring in Nigeria. Rationally, it is the turn of the southern part of the country to present Presidential candidates for registered political party in Nigeria in 2023. A serious consideration, for the entrenchment into the Nigeria constitutions, the rotation of the office of the President of Nigeria and commander-in-chief of Armed forces, should be given now without delay, to reduce to the bearest minimum the much crisis and calamities usually experienced during campaign and elections into political offices. There are six geo-political zones in Nigeria. Zones should produce presidential candidates rotationally. The advantages are many, less contestants to president office, and other political offices, therefore less statistical problems for INEC, less  Crisis, genuine harmony and unity in Nigeria. If the nation can strictly observe federal character cum quota systems to create balance in education and in many other areas, then, we should be able to place emphasis on the rotation of the office of the President for all Nigerians to have sense of belongingness and unity. 