Communication is a core element of human existence. It comes in different forms and formats, mainly verbal, nonverbal and visual. It would be particularly hard to imagine a world without some form of interpersonal interaction, better known as communication. The foremost purpose of communication systems is to provide the right information to the targeted audience at the right place and time. However, one modern communication format that deserves deeper examination is television. Over the years, television has steadily emerged a central instrument of contemporary economic, social, educational and political organisation and information dissemination. Its pivotal role may be seen in the context of information being a knowledge enabler, a remarkable derivative from the famous dictum: Knowledge Is Power. Enlightenment, entertainment and education, which underpin television, are key ingredients of social change. A well-informed society is imperative for development and advancement. In a developing country like Nigeria, the function of television in forging national integration and development cannot be over-emphasised. Unlike other media audiences, television appeals to a wider variety of groups cutting across age groups, literate and illiterate, male and female, urban and rural. Television is particularly vital in the socialisation of young people. Despite the disruption of social media and mobile phones through provision of instant news, television remains remarkable for reaching a large number of people in a very short time. It has the capacity to bring the world to doorsteps in a matter of seconds. It has made the dissemination of news, information and entertainment achievable on a scale unprecedented in human evolution. It is undoubtedly one of the most versatile audiovisual aids ever developed by man. It was unquestionably in recognition of the pivotal role of television in development that TVC News, a member of TVC Communications, recently unveiled a brand-new high definition news studio at its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, an upgrade designed to bolster television experience and truly ensure that Nigerians are informed of any major development as it happens. The ultimate goal, according to the company, is to deliver news as it breaks from any part of the country; to be First With Breaking News. In pursuit of this mission, the company has made substantial investment in studio operations and mobile digital satellite technology, which positions it to become the home of breaking news for Nigeria, ensuring fast and reliable reporting of news stories whenever and wherever around the federation from its network of news bureaus and correspondents. It is projected that from its expanding network of news bureau and correspondents across Nigeria, as well as new programming, TVC News would help in breaking barriers associated with inaccessibility, illiteracy and inadequate trained manpower, which have plagued the country for quite some time. Addressing the media at the unveiling ceremony in Lagos recently, Chief Executive Officer, TVC Communications, Andrew Hanlon, said that its improved news service formed part of a substantial ongoing investment plan aimed at growing the TVC Group of companies into one of the country’s leading media organisations. “Behind this state-of-the art studio in Lagos lies the real engine of our news operation: a substantial team of journalists, producers and the latest mobile satellite technology spread throughout Nigeria, providing us with the ability to broadcast live anywhere and anytime. This will be put to the test this election weekend as over 80 million Nigerians go to the polls to cast their votes,” Hanlon said. He added, “We must be capable of mobilising correspondents and technical teams anywhere, anytime in this vast country, to cover stories within a very short space of time to get the story on air first – and that’s what will distinguish TVC News from other news networks and enable us to be First With Breaking News.” In addition, the company has installed a powerful new suite of motion graphics and visual elements which provide a contemporary look and feel to the TVC News channel, produced by the most talented Nigerian professionals. The freshness of the channel’s content will be driven by its ability to be First With Breaking News, a pitch only possible with the right personnel and equipment. Being balanced and accurate in news reportage are also crucially important in the new vision. In its employ are excellent, highly experienced news anchors who will be the faces of the new TVC News, but they will be seen in a totally different and dynamic environment which viewers will find very appealing. In terms of appearance, the various elements have combined to create a distinctive look that is more cinematic and sophisticated, and yet very alluring to ensure exciting television experience that keeps the viewer captivated and glued to the set. Also speaking at the event, Director of News, TVC News, Stella Din-Jacob, said, “We are incredibly fortunate to have some of the best people and broadcast facilities in continental Africa which will enable us to bring the highest quality news service to our viewers right across Nigeria, Africa and Europe. “Having recently been awarded the coveted NBC Prize for the Best Television Station of the Year at the 26th Nigerian Media Merit Awards (NMMA), we particularly hope that viewers will enjoy our primetime news broadcasts: TVC News at 10pm (The most watched news programme in Lagos at 10pm) and 7pm every weeknight, and to start your day with TVC News Breakfast from 6am-9am every weekday.” As part of a formidable emerging media conglomerate, TVC News stands in good stead to explore the resident expertise and talent to accomplish its mission. It is about being creative and innovative with television in order to reach out to a wider segment of society with trending news, delivered as it breaks. The TVC Communications Group, to which it belongs, also owns other media outfits, including TVC (pure entertainment channel), Max FM Lagos, Max FM, Abuja and Adaba FM, Ondo. Since establishment in 2007, it has emerged one of the most iconic brands in broadcasting in Nigeria. TVC News is a 24-hour Nigerian news channel offering a fresh perspective on African and world events. Broadcasting from Lagos, with offices and correspondents across Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa, TVC News brings its viewers the latest news 24 hours a day, telling the news as it is, with reporting that is as fearless as it is informative. Deploying state-of- the-art equipment and using a network of bureau across the country, TVC News team keeps viewers up-to- date with fast, accurate, and relevant information. The 24-hour news channel meets the needs of its audience with objective, accurate and relevant news. The new upgrade will, as a major objective, guarantee live, gavel-to-gavel coverage, in-depth reporting and expert analysis of the nation’s most important events as they unfold. There will be interviews with specialists on a wide range of subjects who will provide comprehensive context to trending issues. It has also allowed for more efficiency and streamlining of daily duties. The goal of bringing the world live to Nigerian living rooms is gradually getting closer to attainment. TVC News will in due course be assessed by its stated mission.