 A delegation of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) is to inspect the Stephen Keshi Stadium Asaba Wednesday ahead of the AFCON 2019 last qualifier against Seychelles on March 21. The tie is considered inconsequential in many quarters as the Super Eagles have already qualified for the Continental fiesta billed for 21 June to 19 July 2019 in Egypt. The delegation sportinglife.ng gathered is to be led by NFF president Amaju Pinnick. The inspection we understand is to ascertain the state of the pitch and determine whether there will be need for some touch ups before the said match. Seychelles successfully emerged whipping boy of Group E managing to earn only a point in five matches while Nigeria topped the group with 10 points in the same number of matches with South Africa closely following with 9 points. While the Eagles could be said to have landed in style same cannot be said of South Africa who have qualified technically subject to their performance against Libya in the last match. Libya occupy the third position on the log with seven points thus a win or draw  for South Africa will end the journey for The Mediterranean Knights while a resounding victory for Libya  will show the 2010 World cup hosts the door. As inconsequential as the match against Seychelles may be Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr is hoping to use the match to again assemble and assess his team considering that a lot of water has passed under the bridge since the world cup in Russia. While some key players in the Eagles have lost regular playing time and have even parted ways with their clubs, others have just joined new clubs hence the need for the gaffer who has been monitoring them to observe progress at close range. While Odion Ighalo who has ended his romance with Chinese Super League side Changchun Yatai is yet to get another club, Eagles Captain John Obi Mikel and Victor Moses who is being tipped to return to the fold after a dramatic announcement of exit at the end of the World Cup in Russia have joined Championship side Middlesbrough and Turkish side Fenerbahce respectively. Nigeria has missed two editions of the Nations cup and will be hoping to make a mark on return in Egypt.