Despite assurances by security agencies in Rivers, many are watching their back to avoid being kidnapped, assassinated, robbed or attacked by criminals. The Garden City and other parts of Rivers State can fare better. Southsouth Bureau Chief BISI OLANIYI reports Rivers became a state on May 27, 1967. On October 1, 1996, Bayelsa State was carved out of it, with Bayelsa State having eight local government areas, while Rivers State has 23 local government areas. Divided into upland and riverine parts, the coastal parts have more development challenges, in view of the swampy terrain. On March 2, the people of this vast state will join the rest of the country to elect their governor and House of Assembly members. Security is a major issue on the mind of many. The state was bloody during the 2015 elections. Abonnema, the headquarters of Akuku-Toru,  and Rumueprikom-Port Harcourt in Obio/Akpor are very significant in the 2019 governorship calculation in Rivers State. The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Tonye Cole, and his counterpart in Accord (A), Chief Dumo Lulu-Briggs, are from Abonnema. Governor Nyesom Wike, who is seeking re-election, hails from Rumueprikom-Port Harcourt. Social life in Port Harcourt, the state capital, is affected by insecurity, with most night clubs and drinking joints witnessing low patronage for fear of being attacked by kidnappers, armed robbers, assassins and cultists. It is commonplace in Port Harcourt and its environs to see policemen, military and para-military personnel on escort/guard duties, for the eminent personalities not to become victims of always fully-armed criminals. Besides the well-developed Port Harcourt, the developing cities in Rivers include Omoku, the headquarters of Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni , with the Federal College of Education (Technical); Ahoada, the seat of Ahoada East council; and Bori-Ogoni, the headquarters of Khana LGA, hosting the Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic. Ahoada, with many oil wells, is like a ghost city, with the big hotels in the town empty because of incessant kidnapping, which sent away workers of oil firms and oil servicing companies in the area. The crude oil and gas-rich Omoku has many of the commercial banks shut, due to incessant kidnapping of their officials, while lecturers and other workers of FCE (Technical), as well as officials of the multinationals and oil servicing companies are also not spared of the nasty experiences in the dens of kidnappers. It is difficult for the people of Omoku and its environs to forget the 2018 New Year’s Day attack by the notorious killer/kidnapper, Johnson Igwedibia, aka Don Waney and his cult members. 23 persons died, with many persons injured and their valuable property destroyed in the invasion. Igwedibia and some of his lieutenants in crime were later gunned down by security agents and the palatial house of the kidnap kingpin was later demolished by security personnel. Bori-Ogoni, Bonny and Opobo Bori-Ogoni is fast developing, with the presence of Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic and dualisation of the Saakpenwa-Bori-Kono Road, but the crude oil and gas-rich area is now becoming notorious for cultism, kidnapping, armed robbery and communal clashes. Another part of Rivers that would have been inviting to investors and fun seekers is the ancient Opobo Kingdom, the coastal town of the famous King Jaja and the hometown of the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside.  Though it now has a road linking it with the rest of the state, the journey to Opobo is still mainly done by water, using speed boats, with all the risks involved, especially boats capsizing and passengers being attacked by sea pirates, thereby losing their valuables. The ancient Bonny Kingdom is the seat of riverine Bonny Local Government Area and the base of Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Company Limited, which can only be accessed for now, by boat and chopper, as work is still ongoing on the Bodo/Ogoni-Bonny Road, being jointly constructed by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and NLNG. Except highly-placed persons, top officials of NLNG and other companies who can afford the journey to Bonny by air, most people access the island by water, and risk being dispossessed of their cash, phones, other valuables and expensive engines of the boats. The executive NLNG boats, with adequate security protection, are not for members of the public, except for persons who are connected to top officials of the company. Bonny Island is a nice place to live in Rivers with various job opportunities, booming businesses and exciting night life, coupled with free supply of 24-hour electricity to the residents by NLNG. Lack of link road is a major setback as many people are scared of travelling by boat, even with life jackets and security protection. Insecurity in Rivers has also made many medical doctors, other health workers, teachers and other employees of mostly the state government to lobby to remain in Port Harcourt, rather than being exposed to kidnapping, sea piracy, cultism and other criminal activities. Many persons in Port Harcourt and its environs with flashy cars prefer to move about in rickety cars or taxis to avoid exposing themselves to daring kidnappers and armed robbers. Most travellers on Port Harcourt-Mbiama-Warri, Port Harcourt-Ogoni-Eket-Uyo, Port Harcourt-Aba, Port Harcourt-Elele-Owerri, Elele-Omoku and Port Harcourt-Kalabari Roads, among others, always have sad tales to tell  daily in the hands of armed robbers and kidnappers, who demand huge ransoms or rape the ladies. Thugs  given guns by politicians to “win” the 2015 elections in Rivers are now terrorising innocent residents as the arms are yet to be retrieved from them. The abandoned and hungry “boys,” quite unfortunately, are helping themselves to survive with the rifles. Unemployment rate Rivers also has unemployment challenge, thus making many jobless youths to go into criminal activities. Their role models are mostly illiterate militant “Generals,” who are billionaires through kidnapping, illegal bunkering, sea piracy, armed robbery and other criminal activities. Comments The lawmaker representing Rivers East Senatorial District, Senator Andrew Uchendu, said: “As a young man, I watched, with great excitement and admiration, the growth and development of Rivers State. Unexpectedly and sadly, as an adult, I have seen the worst of times in its history. I have seen our youths dismember body parts of fellow youths. I have seen beheaded bodies dumped in public places. “While we pray fervently for the grace of God, our recognised traditional rulers, the clerics and other statesmen must be prepared to call a spade a spade and courageously call errant politicians and deviant members of the society to order. “As individuals and as a group, we must learn to condemn that which is condemnable and appreciate that which is good for all of us.” For Cole,  Rivers must be placed on a path of growth and total economic recovery. “To do so, we must resolve to take our destiny in our own hands. To get to the next level, we must create the appropriate environment for the flourish of commerce and industry, as well as investments. To ensure the redistribution of wealth, our people would have to work with the APC,” he said. He added: “Some Rivers people were betrayed by the quality of our medicare system, as they struggled to hang unto life, in a state that is so blessed. Our hospitals, ill-equipped to deal with life-saving challenges, could not cope. “Some of our pensioners who had toiled as civil servants passed away within the period (2018), because they could not afford decent living for themselves and their beloved families. Their only source of livelihood – pensions and gratuities – were not released as and when due by a system that has not sufficiently demonstrated that it has the milk of human kindness.” For the Chairman of PDP in Rivers, Chief Felix Obuah, Wike has worked hard to improve the quality of lives in the state. Obuah described Rivers governor as a history maker, having surpassed expectations developmentally. Rivers chairman of PDP noted that Wike was going to the poll with incredible testimonial and scorecard of massive social, economic and political development of the state, while urging his teeming supporters to vote massively for Rivers governor and all PDP candidates during the elections, claiming that there was no alternative to Wike. Obuah alleged that detractors of members of PDP in other unnamed political parties were on the verge of drowning, claiming that the opposition politicians might be doing everything to have others drown with them, while urging PDP members in Rivers to resist the opposition politicians and remain focused. Wike, through Rivers Commissioner for Information and Communications, Emma Okah, who doubles as the Director of Information and Communications of Rivers PDP Campaign Council, said: “If Governor Wike is not a good governor in Nigeria, then who is better? It is on record that no governor in Nigeria has received more unsolicited awards, both in Nigeria and abroad, than Governor Wike.” In spite of the assurances given by security agencies in Rivers, everybody is now watching his/her back to avoid being kidnapped, assassinated, robbed or attacked by criminals. The Garden City and other parts of Rivers State can fare better.