•At last, the 2019 General Elections. Polls must be free and fair to be credible Tomorrow, about 84 million eligible voters are expected to turn up at 120,000 polling units to elect the fourth President of Nigeria in the Fourth Republic. It would be the sixth general election since the transfer of power from military to civilian leaders in 1999. The much anticipated 2019 elections are to elect not only the President, but 109 senators, 360 members of the House of Representatives, 30 governors and 991 state legislators. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), there are 73 presidential candidates, 1,800 senatorial candidates and 2,600 contending for the House of Representatives’ seats. In the states, 14,000 candidates will be slugging it out for the House of Assembly seats. We agree with the national chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu,  that, with about 20,000 candidates contesting for the various positions, this will be the keenest contested election ever, thus requiring the attention of all patriots. The electioneering campaign has once again exposed the usual fault lines. Apart from those who died as a result of stampedes at political rallies, supporters of the major presidential and governorship candidates clashed in many states, leading to needless loss of lives. This signposts what may follow the election for executive positions if the electoral commission officials and security agents fail to perform their duties conscientiously. Allegations of partisanship against the agencies already pervade the air. As usual, the polity has been heated up by candidates and other political agents, with their reckless and unguarded statements. This must be immediately nipped in the bud. It is not enough to bind the presidential and governorship candidates to maintenance of peace, the security agencies should invite and warn those whipping up sentiments that could provoke clashes. Politicians should realise that elections are periodic and losers today are potential winners if they abide by the rules and bid their time, while building up their parties. If the elections are peaceful, we are all, in a way, winners, but, if the country burns, we are all losers. In Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, South Sudan where the states failed, everybody lost. Lives were not only lost, even the most vulnerable in the society could not survive assaults by poverty, starvation and preventable diseases. Nigeria is a beautiful country still far from the dream of the founding fathers. The economy remains fragile, polity ill-defined and social fabric weak. Fixing these is the challenge of the moment. So far, not much of the how has been carefully laid out in the campaign, and the elite has refused to rigorously engage the candidates with a view to outlining their vision and assessing their competencies. Even before the elections are held, there are already lessons to be drawn for the future. The electoral commission must always show that it is dispassionate in decision making, regularly engage with the interagency electoral security body, and be anticipatory in securing the commission’s offices at the federal, state and local government levels. The ruling government has the primary responsibility for safety of lives and property. It does not exist to promote the interest of the ruling party only. This does not preclude the opposition parties from responsibility. Nigeria belongs to all, and the precedents laid today could be played back tomorrow when they may be in power. We salute the doggedness of the small parties that have continued to soldier on despite the odds. So had smaller parties performed until they became forces to reckon with in countries like the United Kingdom and Germany. Nigeria’s future is bright, but today’s leaders should be responsible if history is to be kind to them. 