Nigeria is set to penetrate the Indian and Chinese crop market worth over $100 billion with exports such as pigeon pea, sorghum and groundnut, according to the federal government. Director General of the Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS), Dr. Vincent Isegbe, stated this at the maiden NAQS media parley which took place in Abuja on Wednesday. According to Isegbe, the results of recent surveys of pigeon pea and sorghum crops will pave a way for Nigeria to enter the multi-billion dollar market in Asia, catalyzing the export potentials of Nigerian agricultural resources. “The Chinese government is coming in with plans to establish five plantations for forage sorghum,” he informed. “That means that our sorghum exports will more than triple as from next year. “A local company is expected to ship out the first batch of its consignment in the first quarter of this year.” The Director General reiterated the obligation of stakeholders across the value chain to ensure their produce is exportable, stating “their inability to meet relevant sanitary and phytosanitary requirements applicable in the destination countries is the most serious impediment to Nigeria’s participation in foreign trade. “We can produce and export every agricultural produce found in this country and there are markets for it. Our only challenge is to make sure it is done properly.” He added: “Nigeria loses huge revenue, servicing narrow market export options. This is because many countries prohibit the import of produce with mycotoxin contamination, high pesticide residue, microbial contamination, and sloppy packaging and labeling. “It is our goal to make Nigerian agricultural produce acceptable everywhere in the world. That way, we will earn more foreign exchange from more destination countries. “We are also working expeditiously to expand our export frontiers. In addition to the traditional agro-export items, we have identified underutilized yet high premium, emerging agricultural commodities.”