Ogoga of Ikere Ekiti, Oba Adejimi Adu Alagbado has called on the Federal Government to establish a university of education in his domain. The monarch said Ikere deserves the university because of its strategic location and contribution of its indigenes in the field of education in Nigeria and other parts of the world. The monarch spoke during a courtesy visit by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to his palace in lkere Ekiti. Oba Alagbado, who also stated that the community was due for the establishment of a federal institution, made case for the establishment of a Federal University of Education in the town. “We have the highest number of professors in Ekiti State; with over 110 professors from this community. We have several medical doctors as well five Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), the highest (in Ekiti) from this area. We are also the second largest town in Ekiti, therefore, we deserve a federal institution.” Ikere Ekiti had since 1978 played host to the College of Education which has created an identity for the community in the education sector. Former Governor Segun Oni’s administration in 2008 decided to site a state university- The University of Education, Ikere Ekiti (TUNEDIK) in Ikere and withdrew the College of Education, Ikere Ekiti, saying two institutions could not exist side-by-side. The decision led to bloody riots by indigenes of the town who insisted the college could not be taken away. The violence led to the death of one person and destruction of property. The monarch also applauded the Federal Government for making budgetary provision for Akure-Ikere Road in the 2019 budget. Earlier in his address, Prof Osinbajo, who was accompanied by the Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi and other senior government officials, enjoined lkere residents to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in making life easier for the citizenry. Osinbajo highlighted Buhari administration’s achievements to include improved power supply, youths empowerment, provision of basic infrastructure across the country, among others, promising that government would consolidate on the achievements if elected.