Former Covenant University (CU) Vice Chancellor (VC) Prof Aizeanta Obayan, has died two years after her husband’s passage. The death of the Guidance and Counselling professor shook the academia. She was known for her humility, creativity, intelligence and gut. Finally friends and colleagues, among others, spoke glowingly of her at a service of songs and commemorative service held for her on Monday and Tuesday at the Canaanland Ota, Ogun State campus of CU. ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, JANE CHIJIOKE and ZAINAB LAWAL report. Tributes have continued to flow for the former Covenant University (CU) Vice Chancellor (VC), Prof Aizeanta Olohigbe Imoukuome Obayan. A service of songs was held for her at the Canaanland Otta Ogun State campus of CU on Monday. Her body was laid in state on Tuesday friends, students, colleagues, and church members, among others, showered encomiums on the late professor of Guidance and Counselling. Celebration of life service was also held the following day at the same venue at 10am. Mrs Obayan, the third, but longest serving Vice -Chancellor of CU (2004-2012), and second VC of Landmark University, Omu-Aran, Kwara State, (2015-2017), both owned by Winners Chapel International, died on January 29. News of her death filtered through the two universities where she once held sway, throwing everyone, including her colleagues in the academia, into grief. She was 59. How it all began Until she breathed her last, the late Obayan was the Director of Africa Leadership Development Centre (ALDC). Suspicion of her illness began to swirl shortly after she became inconsistent in her role as the Director of African Leadership Development Centre (ALDC), a position she held until she breathed her last. In October, last year, ALDC held its annual Covenant-International Conference on African Development Issues (C-ICADI); the fourth in the series. Obayan did not look sickly, though her seeming apathy during the event was enough cause for concern for a woman many respected for her industry, doggedness, and the ambience of liveliness she usually radiated. A rain of tributes Leading the pack of tributes was the incumbent CU’s VC, Prof Aaron Atayero, who described Obayan’s impact in CU as ‘unquantifiable’. His words:”I can talk as one of her mentees. She was an epitome of leadership par excellence. She redefined everything she touched and she touched people where it mattered most in their lives. She was a book. She was so full that you can’t put it in pages.  You have to experience, read and study her.  We did not lose her, but rather gained somebody who is in the heavenly realms that touched lives. So, we are celebrating her.” Atayero continued: “The foundation years (of CU) actually rested on her shoulders.  She had to chart the path for the institution.  She actually did a good job. “Today we are the best university in West Africa. We have gotten four different rankings. All of these things came from her. I was a Head of Department in 2005 when she was VC.  It has been one success to the other for her successors. She built a form of sustainability on it. “She was an enigma clothed in mystery because she meant different things to different people. She was full of smiles and I can’t remember the time I saw her frown.” Recounting her experience with Obayan, an ex-student of Landmark University, Ijeoma Okereafor, said the deceased esteemed position then was never a barrier to approach her. She said Obayan helped her to write the forward to her first book: “Covenant Poems”, which yielded sales for her. “She was humble, nice, and a leader to the core,” Okereafor noted. She continued: “I remember as a student, she told us to always reach out to her whenever we were faced with any kind of challenges in our studies. She sometimes have an appointment with us in the event of any issues.  She gave us her email. That was a rare privilege a student can get from a vice chancellor. “She was approachable and yet disciplined. She was a mother, and a role model whose life spoke volumes. She helped me to write the foreword of my first book and the book came out before I graduated in 2017. Her contribution to the book really made people to buy it.” A post graduate student of Landmark University, Mr Oreunomhe Elisha, said Obayan was her mother and friend till death snatched her. ” I met her in school during one of our classes. I asked her a question relating to my destiny.  From there, she took an interest in me. Since that day, she was closer to me than my mum even till my last birthday in January 5. That was the last time we spoke,” she said. A professor of Chemistry in CU, Benson Nsikak Udom, likened the deceased to a ‘destiny rescuer’.  “I call her mother.  She was responsible for my coming to Covenant University in 2005. The first impression I got from her spurred my interest in CU.  She was a destiny rescuer to me because she pulled me back when I was heading towards a different way in life,” he said. Prof Patience Akpan-Obong of the Arizona State University, United States (US), who also attended the service of songs, recalled how her path crossed that of the deceased when she (Akpan-Obong) was a visiting professor to CU. “I met her four years ago as a visiting professor to CU. So, we bonded from there over the years. In September, last year, she invited me as a guest speaker at a conference she organised.  She was one of the most gracious and kindest being I have met all through my life. Whenever I had an interaction with her, whether through text, phone call or in person, I always had a newer insight to life as an academic and a Christian woman.  I will miss the fact that she was always just one phone call away,”she said. Landmark University Vice Chancellor, Prof Adeniyi Olayanju, who succeeded Obayan, noted how his predecessor influenced his ability to oversee the school.  “She (Obayan) was the second substantive VC of Landmark University and my predecessor. She was indeed, my mentor, a woman of due process, very committed hardworking personality. When you see an individual that takes care of the body, soul and spirit, that person is near perfection and that was what Obayan was.  Coming from a public university, I learnt a whole lot from her. She and I worked late at nights. Her discipline to time and always a helping hand was never underestimated.” Secretary, Board of Regents of Covenant University, Pastor Chioma Okwuanyi, also described Obayan as an academic guru. “It was like a dream,” he said in disbelief. He continued: “How can you begin to talk about a woman like Obayan in past tense? A woman who never frowned. An academic giant. The area of her research was second to none. She has left a vacuum. We are celebrating   her life today with the belief that she is a happy woman with the Lord.” Her successor at ALDC, Prof Shalom Chinedu, also added to the outpouring of emotion. “It is a big task to talk about her. She was a woman of many parts. She was an ardent follower of God. In every respect, she personified the act of leadership.  She has left us an example to follow. She worked 24 hours. Anytime you met her, she always had a word of blessing and encouragement for you.” Not only Obayan’s colleagues felt her warm touch. A cleaner in CU, Odunaro Taiwo, also explained her simplicity ”She was a very nice person, Odunaro noted, adding: “She was the one that changed our name from ‘cleaner’ to ‘Campus keeper’, and that became the name we are bearing throughout the whole school. If someone has a problem and went to meet her, she would assist you. Her death is very painful to me.” Mr Funsho Ajiboye, a Chartered Accountant and Obayan’s former colleague at CU, also spoke glowingly of her. “Precisely, we started Covenant University together in 2000, and she was also a lecturer like me when we were there together. I left in 2004. We were like brother and sister because we came from Ilorin together to join CU. So, she was like a sister to me. We used to be very close, she was a family friend. Her death is so sudden. Obayan, is a woman with a large heart and whenever she sees you and she feels like this person needs attention, she doesn’t mind to leave what she is doing to attend to such a person and she is a kind of person that likes things been done orderly,” he said. Miss Abigail Ididoh, a decorator, described Obayan as the instrument of her success. ”She was like a mother to me. She gave me a voice, she believed in me and our company and through her, we got to heights that we probably we wouldn’t have gotten to in the next 20 years. She made us get to places where she spoke highly of us. It started with working for/ with her and we became like her children.” Former Vice Chancellor, University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Prof Comfort Ekpo, spoke of her friend and colleague. ”Unfortunately gone,” Ekpo lamented. She continued: “She was a very good friend of mine. When I was the Vice Chancellor, University of Uyo, she was also serving as the Vice Chancellor of Covenant University. It was on that platform we met the first time at the vice chancellors forum and thereafter we became good friends. She was more of a sister to me, very dear and she really impacted so much in me.  She was a Christian and I am a Christian too. So we had a lot in common. She was anxious to see women come up and that was also my focus too. The last time we spoke wasn’t disheartening because I didn’t know what she was going through but I realised that she was trying to cut me off. I tried to talk with her and she cut me off; then I sent her an e mail and that was the last time.” Ayodele Kayode, a staff of CU said: “When you talk about the history of this school, you cannot rule her out.  Despite her revered position, she was always ready to reach out even to the least of persons. That is an uncommon attribute. A loving woman full of smile. When you see her, her smiles alone was just so comforting.  I am proud of her that she affected lives before she left this world.” Earlier in his short sermon,  son of CU Founder, Pastor David Oyedepo junior, called to mind the essence of life, adding that life is measured only by those who only value life and time.  He noted that the time is available to all, but only invested by some. “You cannot impact life without using your life to serve. We must use her (Obayan) example to ask ourselves questions.  Who are we serving?  You can have so much achievement in life, but have no impact. From her life, we can see how time has been invested. You need to apply wisdom to value life and have Christ in you.” Life and times of Mrs Obayan Prof Obayan was born on March 4, 1960, to the family of Sir and Lady Frank Imouokhome in Edo State. She attended St. Andrews, Scotland, for her “A” Levels. She later proceeded for her first degree in B.Ed. (English) at the University of Benin between 1979 to 1982. Thereafter, Obayan proceeded to the University of Ilorin (Unilorin), in Kwara State for her master’s and doctorate degrees in Guidance and Counselling. Having completed her programmes, Unilorin thereafter employed her as an assistant lecturer (AL), in 1986, she rose through the ranks to become an associate professor (AP) in 1995. Obayan applied for her sabbatical as a Senior Lecturer in Counselling Psychology at the University of Roehampton, United Kingdom between 1996 and 1999. Upon her return to Nigeria, her employer had fired her on the ground that she overstayed. Obayan afterwards sought justice in court, insisting she secured her employer’s approval for her sabbatical and leave of absence respectively, while at the University of Roehampton.The Federal High Court, dismissed her case. Determined to push her plea for justice further, Obayan again, approached the Court of Appeal, which on March 10, 2005, reversed the High Court’s verdict in her favour. Dissatisfied, the management of Unilorin headed to the Supreme Court. However, a landmark judgment delivered on February 2, 2018, exactly 19 years after, upheld the judgment of the Court of Appeal, and put the matter at rest for good. The court faulted the manner Obayan’s employment was terminated, insisting that the respondent was denied fair hearing by the appellants in their decision to terminate her employment. She lost her husband  Adetokunbo  Obayan in August 2017. The late Mr Obayan was the CEO of Adetokunbo Obayan and Associates, a management consulting firm. The Obayans are survived by two  children- Toluwani and Joshua.