Kano state Governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Friday promised to gladly welcome back his predecessor and political rival, Senator Rab’u Musa Kwankwaso should he decides to return to the All Progressive Congress (APC) after the elections. He spoke on Friday while receiving Alhaji Ibrahim Na-Kaduna, chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Yalwa Ward in Dala Local Government where Ali Sani Madakin Gini, PDP’s Kano Central Senatorial candidate hails from. The governor said: “In APC, we take all as human beings. We treat them with all manner of dignity and respect. “That is why we are doing our best to woo new entrants into our fold. Even him (Kwankwaso) we wanted him to come and rejoin our party. “When he was planning to come back, he came with a condition that we must support his candidate for the presidency. “We told him point-blank that as far as we are concerned there is no vacancy in the Villa. “We made him understand vividly clear that we could not support any other candidature apart from that of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Ganduje added: “Kwankwaso was only busy doing what he thought were ways to get to President Muhammadu Buhari to tell him that he wanted to stage a comeback. “But when he saw the handwriting on the wall clearly, he retreated. This is so because we told our President not to take any serious action and not to even entertain him, until after the general elections. “If we accept him before elections, he could beat his chest at the end of it and boast that he made the victory possible. “We now said let him rejoin when election is over. That is after the victory come calling.” Ganduje explained: “This effort of rescuing Kwankwasiyya followers, which is tagged ‘Operation Tsamar Nama’ is designed to, specifically, help those followers understand the true picture of the predicament they are in. So we are welcoming you for this giant step you have just taken.” Na-Kaduna, who was presented to Ganduje by member of Kano representing Dala local Government Area in the House of Assembly, Babangida Yakudima, lamented how Kwankwaso has been insensitive to the plight of his followers. According to him: “Kwankwaso is only interested in putting his followers to many troubles and political crises. “When such things happen, before you know it, he takes to his heel. How can such a person be a leader?”  He added: “At a point in time, the North Central Senatorial candidate in PDP, Madakin Gini, had wanted to run away from the Kwankwasiyya group. “Plans were on top gear, but all of a sudden, we just heard that he made a U-turn. That he is still with Kwankwaso.”