SIR: It is no longer news that the Independent National Electorate Commission (INEC) has postponed the scheduled elections by one week. The announcement which was made at the wee hour of Saturday,few hours to election has been strongly condemned by many Nigerians and international community. INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu cited logistics problems as the reason why the electoral umpire postponed or shifted the polls. The shifting of the initial date of the poll by INEC did not come to many Nigerians as surprise. The country has had history of polls postponement with the recent one in 2015. In the build up to the 2015 general elections,INEC shifted the elections by six weeks. The then INEC chairman, Professor Attahiru Jega hinted security challenges in the troubled Northeast states as the main reasons for the postponement. The former INEC boss told Nigerians that he acted based on the security report from the office of the National Security Adviser, Colonel Sambo Dasuki which said it could not guarantee safety of the officials and the election materials during the conduct of elections in the Northeast. Now, it is history. From what had transpired in 2015 elections, the action by the electoral umpire under Prof. Yakubu is not new. The present INEC has just taken a cue from Jega’s INEC. It only differed on the circumstances. While Jega hinged his postponement on insecurity, the current chairman cited logistics problems. Beyond the sudden shift of the polls, the million-naira questions begging for answers are: What has INEC been doing for good four years that it cannot conduct election on scheduled dates? It seemed the INEC has forgotten to do its homework properly. The logistics challenges could have been tackled and attendant embarrassment averted had the officials identified the problem and quickly addressed it before the time of the elections. With the logistics challenges which abruptly dashed the hopes of Nigerians to exercise their civil responsibilities as scheduled, INEC should make sure the rescheduled polls are conducted within the stipulated time frame. The postponement of the polls have caused serious setback to electorate who waited patiently to cast their votes. Also affected by the polls shift are the adhoc staffs mostly the NYSC corps members who were posted to different locations, the international observers who have been in the country for the past one week and the political parties which may incur additional expenses. INEC should use the remaining days to fully prepare for the free and fair elections.  It is quite disturbing that inspite of the adequate time it has, the commission could not deliver as expected.  Pambegua,Kaduna State.