The Egbema-Gbaramatu Community Development Foundation (EGCDF) and Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) have commissioned and handed over a N596 million cottage hospital project over to the Delta state government. The project, which handing over ceremony held in Polobubo (Tsekelewu) in Warri North council area of Delta state, was built through a Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) between Chevron, operator of the NNPC/Chevron Joint Ventures and EGCDF. Speaking at the ceremony, the Delta State Governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, who was represented by the Chief of Staff, Government House Asaba, Chief Tam Brisibe commended the management of the EGCDF and Chevron for the laudable project. He said the state government has made the health center one if its centers for the Delta State Health Contributory Scheme which will provide free health care services to children under five years, pregnant women and the elderly people above 65 years. He said “The Delta State Government is very happy to be a part of this ceremony. Development is a partnership, government alone cannot do everything. Today we are commissioning this primary health center, which is being made possible by the partnership between EGCDF and Chevron/NNPC Joint Venture. “The Delta State Government is coming in to provide the necessary support to run this facility. The government of Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa is one, that undoubtedly have the interest of the people of Delta State at heart. “The SMART agenda that he (Okowa) came into government with has allowed him to provide health facilities in different parts of the state. It had led him to develop parts of the state that hitherto have not been seeing the presence of government.” He also promised to look into all the requests the community has made earlier saying, “This government is a government that has done what other past governments are afraid to do.” The General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, (PGPA), CNL, Mr Esimaje Brikinn who spoke at the ceremony said the takeover of the hospital built by the EGCDF under Chevron’s GMoU was a triumph of partnership. While thanking the leadership of the EGCDF and the state government for making the cottage hospital part of the Delta State Health Contributory Health Scheme, Brikkin, who was represented by Mr Sam Daibo, noted that the GMoU process will be improved on. “The new improvement on the GMoU concept which we call GMoU+, is helping us to monitor and evaluate the impact of the GMoU in our communities while we continue to realize our individual and collective aspiration through the process. “It focuses on business development and economic empowerment programs: third party partnership and collaboration, delivery on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Operational Excellence and Human Rights,” Brikinn added. Earlier, the National President, Polobobu/Tsekelewu National Council, Mr Ebilate Mac-Yoroki, commended Governor Okowa for taking over the cottage hospital, saying the gesture would enable the community and other neighbouring communities enjoy seamless provision of a primary healthcare like others. Mac-Yoroki, who whose speech was read by the Secretary, Polobobu/Tsekelewu National Council, Barr Midweek Kokuru, however, said that as a community blessed with abundant mineral resources which the nation is feeding from, the basic amenities they enjoyed was a far cry from what they are supposed to enjoy. He said the community is suffering from ecological and environmental degradation orchestrated by oil exploration and exploitation, stressing that the activities of oil multinationals have destroyed their economic trees and vegetation which provided the people with lucrative livelihood. “The damage is so enormous that the rivers and canals dry up in the dry season while flooding occurs during the rainy season which we experience in an unusual dimension during the rainy season last year, 2018. Marine transportation became almost impossible and fishing activities paralyzed entirely, Mac-Yoroki, said. The community urged the state government to dredge their rivers, reclaimed their land, build internal roads in the community, construct a major Trans-Egbema Road from Otuama to Polobubo from Polobubo to Ogbudugbudu and help get all the oil companies in the area sign proper MoU with them. They also requested the state government to build a modular refinery in the area, provide portable drinking water, install the 100kva generating plant provided for the community by DESOPADEC, sandfill the Tsekelewo Secondary School and build a Higher Institution/Skill acquisition center for them. Chairman of the EGCDF, Comrade Jude Ukori commended Governor Okowa for taking over the project, calling on other stakeholders including the Federal Government, Donors, and interventionist agencies at all levels to partner with the foundation so as to positively impact on the lives of the people. Also, the monarch of the Egbema Kingdom, Bini Pere 111, said he was overwhelmed with joy seeing that the age-long desire of having a primary healthcare facility in Egbema Kingdom has come to fruition through the collective efforts of EGCDF, Chevron Nigeria Limited and its joint venture partners, NNPC.