Afterschool Centre for Career Development is a capacity development organisation committed to assisting aspiring entrepreneurs achieve their dreams. Esther Eshiet is one of the forerunners in the arena of women entrepreneurship. She is training women to venture into the business arena, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Nigerian women entrepreneurs are positioning themselves to break the glass ceiling. One of those who believe in this is Esther Eshiet. She is Faculty Lead, Afterschool Centre for Career Development (ACCD), a capacity development organisation committed to assisting entrepreneurs. ACCD  is a capacity development organisation committed to assisting young persons in transitional stages of their lives, set goals and walk them through the achievement of such goals. The centre provides growth opportunities as well as career development interventions for and with young people, enabling them to transit seamlessly from school to work. The  organisation works with  individuals  and firms  to enhance their productivity and with professionals to nurture their leadership capabilities. Saddened by the high burden of graduate unemployment in Nigeria, ACCD is providing undergraduates with workplace tools, services and social capital to become ‘strategic fits’ for the workplace. Beyond this, Miss Eshiet and her team are leading a movement for a change in the education and employment ecosystems in Africa through a career counselling model. For her, empowering    women is an important approach to alleviate rural poverty and promote sustainable development. Miss Eshiet is not only the owner of her own successful business but she also keeps herself busy by grooming other women to start their own businesses. She believes that when women are economically-empowered, money flows back into businesses and towards the health, education and well-being of families. She has participated in training programme for female business leaders. She then passed her learnings to other women entrepreneurs in her country, helping them to start their own businesses. In Cross River State and across Nigeria, she grows the skills of women entrepreneurs. She serves as a positive force for change. For her, women entrepreneurs have come far but they still have a long way to go. According to her, there are many issues that still need to be improved: access to finance, gender-responsive policies, family barriers and deconstructing stereotypes about women entrepreneurs. Others suffer from inadequate financial recourses and working capital. To address this, Miss Esther is ready to help women acquire skills, resources, and  offer  necessary support to grow and sustain their businesses. She is determined to see women in entrepreneurship contribute to job creation as the country reels under massive unemployment problem. She   is already collaborating with some other influential female entrepreneurs in the country to create a platform to encourage potential women entrepreneurs and to link them with their counterparts in other part of the country. As part of its objectives to proving learning and mentoring opportunities for young women in Nigeria,  ACCD and Vital Voices have  scheduled Global Mentoring Walk for March 9. The Vital Voices Global partnership envisions a community of empowered women living lives worthy of emulation and aims to inspire a new cadre of women leaders/entrepreneurs. According to her, the Global Mentoring Walk will connect Nigeria’s leading women business leaders with emerging business women around the country . She  explained that the  Walk will be bringing together 500 established women leaders and rising women professionals to walk together in 10 Nigerian cities including Calabar, Lagos, Ilorin ,Uyo, Kano, Port -Harcourt, Kaduna, Ibadan, Abeokuta and Abuja. Held on the same day in over 70 countries across the world, she noted Mentoring Walk unifies the Vital Voices Global Leadership Network fostering a global community of women to affirm their commitment to women’s leadership through mentoring. This year’s walk will be held Saturday, March 9 to celebrate International Women’s Day. 