As Nigerians troop out for the presidential and National Assembly elections today, the mood across the country is mixed. Caution is the word as many gauge the mood of the nation on a daily basis in order to know how to respond to any situation. Findings made by The Nation across the country indicate that the political mood within the states and local government areas tend to shape individuals’ moods and expectations from the elections. This informs the rather different moods of the people in different states as the nation prepares to elect its leader in the next four years. All calm in Lagos Since the advent of the Fourth Republic, Lagos State has been a fortress for progressive politics, save the emergence of the late Chief Michael Otedola of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) as the governor of the state in the short-lived Third Republic after profiting from internal squabble in the camp of the progressives. Since then, the state has returned to the progressives’ fold and has been the bulwark for progressive politics. Most Lagosians interviewed saw no need for any special arrangements as vehicular movement would only be restricted for one day. “Nothing dey happen (nothing is happening) It is just elections and nothing else. The mood is the same in most parts of the state,” said a Lagosian, Mr. Sikiru Anjorin. No thoughts for IPOB’s sit-at-home order in Anambra As the people of Anambra State prepare to cast their votes today, there is no sign of panic whatsoever. In fact, some of the state’s residents who spoke with The Nation believe that the so-called pre-election hype is a normal phenomenon. The purported sit-at-home order issued by the indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), may not work as the residents did not appear to be giving it any consideration. Asked whether they were stockpiling food items or making withdrawals from banks on account of the tension created by IPOB’s directive, respondents told The Nation there was no need for such. A petty trader at the Eke Awka Market, Ebere Uzochukwu, an indigene of Abia State, said he registered to vote in his state but would not be travelling home to vote for people he said would not remember him at the end of the day. For Amaka Ezimora, who hails from Enugu State but lives in Onitsha, whoever God had destined to win would win, even as she implored the government to reduce the sufferings in the land. It was, however, observed that many eligible voters in the state were yet to obtain their PVCs in Anambra State, while some who did said they were not ready to cast their votes for anybody, asking, “The one we voted before, have we benefitted anything?”  IPOB’s threat real in Abia, other South East states Unlike Anambra, the calls by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on the people of Abia State to boycott today’s elections may have yielded some fruits in Abia State, with disclosure by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that about a quarter of the two million registered voters in the state were yet to collect their permanent voter cards (PVCs). Abia State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Joseph Ilo, said that more than 500,000 of the 2 million registered voters in the state had not collected their PVCs a few days to the elections. Ilo, represented by Achibie Chigozie, the Head of Department of Voter Education and Publicity disclosed this in Umuahia, the Abia State capital at a conference organised by Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) to sensitise the Abia electorate ahead of the 2019 general elections with the theme, ‘Towards evolving a sustainable and responsible leadership culture in Abia State.’ According to the pro-Biafra group, today was marked out as a day for Biafran referendum in Biafra land. The Pro-Biafra group warned that anybody who disobeyed the order and came out would have him or herself to blame as such a person would be regarded and treated as someone who disobeyed the directives to vote against the realization of the independent state of Biafra.  Deltans stockpile essentials in preparation for polls Residents of Delta State are making provisions in case of election or post-election crisis. The Delta State government, not willing to leave anything to chance, has declared that schools will break from February 13-18 and February 26-March 4 respectively to allow for hitch-free polls. But many who fear that the elections could be crisis ridden have started making contingency plans among which is stockpiling foodstuffs. But some others are optimistic that the elections will be violence free, hence they are not under pressure to make contingency plans. An Asaba resident, Mr. Tony Efe, a father of five, wants Deltans to support INEC to deliver elections that will be peaceful and credible. He said he was not under pressure to stockpile essential commodities in anticipa tion of election crisis. He said: “I believe that those in authority should be supported in their mandate to deliver a free and fair election. Everyone is watching them. The electoral umpire cannot afford to fail Nigerians.” Another resident, Mr. Jake Aimuan, said the widespread apprehension was premised on the fear that there might undesirable reaction as a result of the presidential election. He said he had stocked his home with non-perishable food items. His words: “There is fear of possible undesirable reaction from the presidential polls which might disrupt commercial activities. The implication is that prices might go up as traders will find it difficult to open for business.” Aimuan said he would ensure that he has enough money during the weekend, adding that banks are known to run out of cash during festive periods. Mr. Joshua Okpanefe, a civil servant, says he has concluded plans to stockpile food items and keep large amount of cash at home, adding that he had already bought fuel for his vehicle. Mrs. Debby Oyowe said that her family would stock up food items and make arrangements to hold cash in case of any eventuality. Her words: “I am a little bit apprehensive about the coming polls. I have decided to stock up on foodstuffs. This is just contingency plan should there be anything untoward.”  Residents stockpile food as tension grips Rivers Residents of Port Harcourt, Rivers State are feeling a sense of insecurity in the build-up to today’s elections and have resorted to stockpiling food items and making provisions for sufficient fuel such that there would be no reason for them to leave their homes after casting their votes. Gilbert Okoro, a businessman and tiles dealer, said: “I am not very interested in this election because it looks as if it will be bloody, especially with what is happening in Rivers State now; I mean the APC and PDP tussle. I have already made plans on how to play safe.” Asked how he plans to play safe, he said: “First of all, I will bring my children back from school. Three of my eldest children are in boarding school. I will bring them back home by Thursday so that they will remain at home until after the presidential election. “After that, I will buy everything we will need in the house for the whole weekend and buy enough fuel for my generator, so that nothing will take me out of the house the whole of the weekend. “I want to make sure that my house is secured, because whatever happens, the election will still hold. So, I will play my part well and wait for the rest. “The good thing is that my polling unit is just in the compound where I stay. So if the environment is rowdy, I will not bother coming out. “We don’t know what this election is coming with, so I will protect my family first and allow God do the rest.” For Nyeche Owhonda, a land agent, his wife will not vote because of the already existing political tension in the state. “I don’t have any plans. If that day comes, I will cast my vote and wait for the results. But my wife is not going to vote on that day. She will have to stay at home with the children. “I will make sure she finishes everything and anything that will bring her out that day. She will cook and make everything available for the children.” As for Mrs. Judith Echeche, a mother of two, the safety of her family matters more than the election. She will ensure that the two lads never step outside the house throughout the event, as their food and upkeep for the period will not be an issue. She said: “For that day, my husband has already fixed our faulty generator. With that, I can assure you that my children and I will not step out of the house. I will buy enough food and biscuits for them. “What I will need to do now is to ensure that I get good kiddies song CDs and others to keep them busy until the day goes by. As for my husband, he is a man and he knows what to do.” It is not different with a female primary school teacher identified simply as Joyce. For her, it is a day of good rest, which should be well utilised. “I am not going to vote for anybody on that day, so I am not making any plan for the day. “There is too much tension and power tussle in the country and the state in particular, so I don’t want to get involved. I will just stay in my house, sleep and wash my clothes. Nothing more. “However, I advise those who would want to participate to be careful and stay out of trouble.”  Election blues in Kano As the political headquarters of the North, and indeed, one of the major deciding states in terms of the presidential election, the ancient commercial city is in the grip of election fever. Tension is rife in the state in the aftermath of last Sunday’s presidential campaign rally of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) which led to pockets of violence in the state. Houses were burnt, cars smashed while there were serial attacks on the residences of some political figures. Innocent citizens were not also spared in the ugly development as miscreants and political thugs took advantage of the situation to unleash terror on residents, snatching cell phones; picking people’s pockets and stabbing whoever resisted their demands. Last Sunday, thugs suspected to be loyal to the PDP allegedly attacked the home of the state chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, where cars were smashed and the children were also maimed with severe machete cuts. In what looked like a reprisal, another set of thugs allegedly attacked the home of the governorship candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Abba Yusuf, burning parts of his building. Apart from these, pockets of attacks were also recorded across the state as jobless youths moved about with dangerous weapons, harassing innocent pedestrians. The PDP office was also reportedly torched. Hate speeches have continued to rent the air as rival parties threaten fire and brimstones. The rising tension, expectedly, put fear and apprehension in residents, especially the non-natives, some of whom have engaged in panic travelling as a result of distress calls from their home states. Speaking with The Nation, Mrs. Ijeoma Uwakwe, who was sighted at New Road Luxury Bus Park, ready to travel to the South East with her children, said she was forced to engage in the unplanned journey due to several calls she had received from the village. She said: “My brother, it is life first before wealth. I prefer to go back to my home state and starve there than stay in Kano and die as a result of this election. You are aware of what is happening in town. Since they have started this way now, who knows what will happen after the elections?” Another traveller, Mr. Adeola Oyetunde, recalled how he lost his wife in the 2015 post-election violence, saying: “I came back here to Kano because of the contract I was executing before that ugly incident. The death of my wife is still fresh in my memory. The atmosphere is already becoming tense. I have to run before it is too late. After the elections if nothing happens, I may come back. Checks carried out at the markets also revealed that residents engaged in panic purchase of goods, particularly foodstuffs whose prices had also skyrocketed. There are also visible queues in ATM stands as residents are seen withdrawing money in preparation for the unknown. However, the Kano State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mohammed Waziri has cautioned politicians against instigating violence, warning that anyone found breaking the law would be made to face the wrath of the law, no matter how highly placed. According to him, already, 50 persons have been arrested for arson, thuggery and other election-related offences. Wakili pledged his preparedness to ensure a safe environment before, during and after the general election, adding that politicians and political parties participating in the exercise should play by the rules, as the police will ensure fair and equal treatment to all. According to him, “we will not allow a few people among us to operate as if there are no laws. We will not allow them to operate as if Kano is a jungle. We will not allow what happened on Sunday (10 February) to repeat itself. The position of the law in brandishing and carrying arms and dangerous weapons during political rallies, electioneering campaigns, elections and even ordinary days, is clear, and at all times, the law is in place.” The Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, has expressed dismay over the recent political unrest which led to several bloody attacks on innocent residents by hoodlums in the state. Addressing Journalists at his palace on Tuesday, Sanusi, who frowned at the resurgence of political thuggery in the state, called on the security agencies to live up to their responsibilities in curbing the ugly trend According to him, the resurgence of political thuggery calls for immediate concerns in the state. The Emir said the state is not at war and therefore, “we should not rise on to each other’s throats in the name of politics. We should avoid shedding the blood of innocent citizens and wanton destructions of lives and properties.” However, the Ethnic Community Leaders Association, Kano State (ECLAK) has made a clarion call, urging non-indigenes to remain in the state and perform their civic responsibilities as adequate measures have been taken to ensure security of lives and property during and after the 2019 general elections. In a Press Statement signed by ECLAK President-General, Dr. Jimoh Patrick Jimpat Aiyelanbge, ECLAK charged all members of ethnic communities’ registered voters resident in Kano to go out en mass and vote candidates of their choice during the general election.  Niger residents in relaxed mood amid security beef-up In Minna, Niger State capital, most residents are relaxed about today’s elections and are not anticipating possible outbreak of violence. A resident, Samuel Yisa, said: “Well, my PVC is handy and I’m trusting God to see Saturday 16th February, 2019 to perform my civic duty as a citizen. “There is no need for me to rush to the market for any emergency purchase because the election is just for a day and the next day, I am optimistic that the markets will re-open on Sunday” Another resident, Valda Martins, believes God is in control: “Hmm! Saturday (today) election? God will have his way. I pray people go out to vote instead of going to sell their freedom and well-being for a token of 500 or 1000 naira. “I am not making any plans to withdraw more money than I need or making extra buys because I am not expecting any form of violence. We have been praying for peace and the Prince of Peace will make the exercise peaceful. “I have not voted before, but this time around, I intend to vote. I don’t think there will be any violence of any kind. So far, the campaigns have been peaceful, so why won’t the elections be peaceful?” Also speaking in the same vein, Mohammed Lawal, a resident of Minna, said: “I do not see any need for last minute purchases or withdrawals. And regarding security, I have confidence in INEC’s preparation and security arrangements. I have located my voter’s card, identified my polling station and sensitised friends on need to vote with advice on following guidelines on voting. I have also prayed and committed all things to the hands of God.” Niger State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) disclosed that 2,250 of its officers would be deployed across the state for today’s elections. The state Commandant of the Corps, Mr. Philip Ayuba, also said the command would deploy plain clothe operatives in all the polling units in the 25 council areas of the state to that effect. He said the state is not known for electoral violence, but they would not take chances as efforts were being made to ensure the state does not encounter any election violence during and after the elections. Also, the Niger State Police Command vowed to deal decisively with any person or group of persons found disrupting the Presidential election. Apprehension in Benue There is palpable fear of violence in Markudi, Benue State capital. Many residents who spoke with our correspondent vowed to remain indoors today. A trader in Wurukum Market in Makurdi, Mrs Kate Emmanuel, told The Nation that since the market would be closed in the morning, she would stay indoor until the result was announced. She said: “I have stocked my kitchen with enough food because the political actors are talking tough and I’m afraid there would be violence. So I will remain in my house until the results are announced.” At Modern Market located on Naka-Adoka Road, a civil servant, Paul Adakole, who was seen buying foodstuffs, expressed fear that there might be outbreak of violence because most of the politicians are seeking second term in office. “There is anxiety and tension in this election because the incumbent wants to win at all cost. So on the election day, I will vote and rush home to be with my family,” said Adakole. Adakole said also that he had stocked enough food for his family in case of violence. He appealed to the politicians to caution there followers to play according to the rules.  Concerns in Imo over IPOB’s threats Political parties and the electorate in Imo state are eager to participate in today’s elections. This much can be seen in their level of preparation. For the political parties, it has been a beehive of activities as they crisscross the length and breadth of the state canvassing for votes and making last-minute preparations to secure their votes, while the electorate are making desperate efforts to ensure that they collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). Major politicians and candidates participating in the election are in last-minute push to beat the deadline to end political campaigns, while most public schools will be shutting down from Thursday, 48 hours to the election. Security operatives have also stepped up preparations to ensure hitch free exercise. There is increased police visibility at various places regarded as flashpoints. Meanwhile the general mood in the state is devoid of the usual anxiety that precedes general elections. The people are going about their duties without any form of fear. But one major concern is the renewed campaign by members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) for people to boycott the election. Already, no fewer than three persons have been killed in pockets of clashes between the Biafra agitators and security agencies. Even though the Police has assured voters of adequate security during the election, the IPOB threat is a source of concern for the electorate. A voter, Chief Ukanwa Michael, who spoke with The Nation in Owerri during an interactive session organised for the electorate in Imo State by the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), said: “We are eager to cast our votes on Saturday. We are also satisfied with the preparations by INEC and security operatives.” Would be voters who spoke with our correspondent also expressed their readiness to vote in Saturday’s election. Meanwhile the State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Francis Ezeonu, has reassured the voters that the Commission will ensure a level playing ground. Plateau voters enthusiastic Residents of Plateau State, particularly Jos, are set for today’s elections. The enthusiasm to participate in the final processes of the election is very high. However, some of the residents are apprehensive that there could be trouble as a result of the election. Such feelings in some quarters does not reflect the minds of the majority. Only a few number of residents are nursing such fears. Some residents spoken to Terminus Market spoke their minds. One of them, Mrs. Dominic Aboh, said: “Yes, I’m buying foodstuffs ahead of the election. It is not for fear of the unknown; it is because you know it’s a routine that there is no movement on election day. So you have to buy ahead of that day so that you will have no reasons to go out and look for things to buy. “Of course there will be no market on that day. So, it is good to buy all you need for that day. If not, hunger will teach you a lesson. “You know that voting falls into weekend. The next day would be Sunday. So it is going to be two days off the market. That is why I’m buying foodstuffs ahead. I don’t have any fear that there will be trouble after the election.” Another resident, Michael Ozor, said there are fears of the unknown because of the two heavyweights involved in the presidential election, but nothing will happen. “Some people exercised such fear in 2015 but nothing happened. So, for me, I don’t have any fear in mind at all. The election is going to be peaceful,” he said. My Daniel Izang, a miner, said: “If there is any fear of violence during the election, there fear could be elsewhere, not in Plateau State, because there is no record of electoral violence in the state. The conduct of national election in Plateau State has always been peaceful, so I expect this one to also be peaceful. But some people who are naturally cowards are exercising fear. I don’t think such fear exists.” A taxi driver, Abel Ashom, said: “I have confidence that nothing will happen in this election because the two presidential candidates have carried out their rallies in Jos peacefully. Since their supporters did not clash, they will not clash during the elections. It’s going to be peaceful in Plateau State”