Residents and shop owners at SAMECK junction off Faulks road and Uche Street in Eziama in Aba North Loacl Government Area of Abia State have raised concerns over possible outbreak of airborne diseases following rate of decomposing bodies within their residential and business premises. Some of the residents, who spoke at the scenes of the decomposing corpses, lamented the negative effect the bodies were having on their businesses and health. They lamented all efforts to get the attention of the Aba North Health team have failed. They feared that if nothing urgent was done to save them from the impending dangers associated with the decomposing bodies; their situation might grow from bad to worse. According to some shop owners at SAMECK, they could no longer transact their businesses around the places affected because of stenches. A resident, Ikedi Onyejiaka, said that the body of the suspected robber lynched at SAMECK junction off Ariaria had left them gasping for breath, forcing them to shut down their shops since Saturday when the body of the armed robber started decomposing. However, Health experts in Aba have cautioned residents over the health implications of burning suspected armed robbers and leaving their corpses on the streets. The health experts drawn from the offices of the environmental health departments of Aba North and Aba  South Local Government Areas advised residents to hand over suspected criminals to the police and avoid polluting the streets with burnt corpses. In a telephone chat, Head of Department (HOD) of Environmental Health in Aba North LGA, Mrs. Ngozi Ochor disclosed that leaving corpses in the streets to decompose are hazardous to the health of road users and residents. “The terrible health implementations of this act cannot be over emphasized. When our air and our environment are polluted the reality is that our health is at risk. “If corpses are not disposed away from our streets, our environment becomes uninhabitable and extremely hazardous. “It contaminates almost everything around us and expose both the young and the old to danger because disease carriers like flies will perch on them and move to contaminate everything around including food,” she said. On the two corpses found in Eziama and SAMECK Junction which falls under Aba North, Ochor disclosed that steps have been taken to evacuate the corpse in order to avoid people from contracting disease. Speaking on the solutions and preventive measures necessary to be taken, Mrs. Ochor said,”I’m telling Aba residents to allow the police take care of certain things. “I don’t encourage criminality, but the health implementations of keeping corpse in our streets are too many. “They can hand over criminals to police and that will save us all from contracting diseases. Our health is at risk whenever they do things like this. Let the law do the justice.” Also, the HOD of Aba South LGA, Mrs. Chinyere Nwaigwe also said that the health implications of leaving corpses in the streets of Aba are better imagined than experienced. She said that the health implications of such situations led to creation of a unit that takes care of unidentified corpse in her office. Nwaigwe said that getting information on such makes their job easier as it helps them dispose such corpses easily and save the public from impending diseases that follow such acts. 