Former Nigeria youth international, Bernard Bulbwa was nicknamed  ‘show me the money’ for inexplicable reasons during his days with the national Under-17  team but he has yet provided explainable details why his so much-trumpeted transfer to Esperance Sportive of Tunis went awry. In probably his frankest interview ever , Bulbwa now plying his trade with Moroccan side Mouloudia Oujda, admitted poor judgment by starting off his professional career abroad with the Tunisian giants.  Without any doubt, my best moments at Esperance was the special love shown to me  by the fans but  I think the biggest mistake I made was going to Esperance because of money,” the usual blunt –talking Bulbwa said matter-of-factly.  “I followed the money despite the fact that I actually had the opportunity of going to Europe after the 2015 U-20 Africa Cup of Nations which I won with the Flying Eagles in Senegal but I turned them down . “ I did not get  enough playing time at Esperance and not because I wasn’t good enough but the coach (Ammar Souyah) just didn’t like me. “ No matter what I did in training , I was not given the opportunity to play by the coach. Though the fans loved me but I couldn’t take it again especially in the second year when my mum died. “ They didn’t even give me enough time to come and buried my mum; I was given just four days but I actually went’ back on the seventh day  and that was when my problem really started. “ I was punished and  pushed to the Team B and I couldn’t take it anymore; I had to leave. “I  think I made the mistake of going to Esperance because they gave me good money; but there is something I would like to share with upcoming players. “ Earlier in my career, I  made a mistake by always thinking about making money even right from my days with the U-17;  and the officials started calling me ‘show me the money’ because everything was all about the money. “It’s not a good attitude for young footballers to focus on the money. Young footballers should focus first on their career and the money would come later. “Maybe I would have gone further than where I am today but honestly, I still give thanks to God for what I have been able to achieve through football.” Indeed, Bulbwa is not your everyday kind of guy that brood so much about the past since he’s an optimist that sees the glass half full but not half empty like a pessimist as he further explained that playing professional football has been very rewarding after achieving one of his principal objectives in life. “What else would  I have done besides playing football?” Bulbwa who scored Nigeria’s winning goal against hosts Senegal at the 2015 Total U-20 African Cup of nations Final Match, asked rhetorically. “Football is my life and everything; playing football has helped me achieved  one of  my dreams in life “I grew up watching my mum begged for food buy I prayed to God that I should be able to feed my mum; and God really helped me to be able to take care of my mum before she died. “So nothing else mattered to me now since God through football, really helped me to take care of mum in a very big way before she died. “I was able to provide her with everything she needed but it’s painful she’s no longer here to enjoy even more,” noted Bulwa as he speaks on other sundry issues. Below  are excerpts from the interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN.  From the beginning I have two elder brothers and four elder sisters; I’m the last born. I thank God I’m able to support them through  playing football. Football had long been my life; I crawled with football and was lucky that my father who worked and played for Benue Cement Company (BCC) staff team. Nobody stopped me from playing football because they usually bought football for me when I was kid. So, football has been my life.  I can’t forget someone I considered more than a brother because he really helped me. Gabriel Sawauan , he’s a soldier and when he came home to Gboko  he saw me and he was the one who took t me to Lagos because as he said, he saw great talents in me. He encouraged and really helped me by buying boots for me and taking me  to training during my days with Shuttle Academy in Lagos. He didn’t have much but he believed so much in me and did all he could to assist me so that I can play football. The unquenchable love for my mum My mum played important role in my football career; she was my everything and she used to tell me to be patient. That God never sleeps; she was my pastor and prayer warrior. Anytime I had difficulties, I usually put a call through so that she can pray for me and everything would be normal when she prayed for me.  My mum was my strength and she’s the reason I never gave up about myself. It was hard to see my mum begged for food and I vowed it won’t happen again. She was the reason behind my resolve to make it as a professional footballer. Once, I started making little money, I took care of her and I made sure I provided her everything she needed. It is painful she’s dead now but I’m happy that I made her happy by taking good care of her because she never lacked anything before she died. I really missed her. My dad actually died when I was a kid but I remember him so much especially buying me balls and given me money when I played well. It’s painful he never got anything out of my success.  I always said I want a girl like my mother as my wife. I don’t know if I will be able to find one. Growing up, I never saw my mum talked back on my dad. She was a God-fearing woman. My adopted mother There is another woman that is close to my heart. She was my mum’s friend and I can’t forget all what she did for my mum.  She is now my adopted mother. When things were so tough, this old woman was the only one left when things became difficult for us. I was the last born and always with my mum; this woman was always around and at times, she’ll bring mangos but those mangos served as dinner sometimes because things were that rough for us. Once, I started making little money, I was sending my mum to her. Now, she is my mum since my mum is no longer alive and she’s very dear to my heart. Best moments at Esperance Without any doubt, my best moments at Esperance was the special love shown to me  by the fans; I was so recognised ever where I went to in Tunis and the fans showed me true love. I can’t forget the love the fans shown to me because I couldn’t walk on the streets or went to the mall without people showing me real love. It was my happy moments; and the worst was when things changed after the coach (???)  That signed me at Esperance was sacked. After his sack, everything changed for me on the field but I can’t the feeling and love shown to me by the fans. New Life at Mouloudia Oujda After playing at the FIFA U-20 World Cup, I was drafted to the U-23 and even went for the qualifier against Gambia but unfortunately, I couldn’t make the team. My interest is that after the U-23, I can work my way into the Super Eagles but I got a serious cruciate injury at Esperance and I was out of football for over year. I’m just getting back and I would surely fight my way back to the top because I have no doubt about my talent. It is a new life for me at Mouloudia Oujda and I have to continue to work. I believe in myself and I know strongly that God will bless my efforts. I just have to work and I know everything would be alright. Playing for Super Eagles is a dream of any Nigerian player and I’m so happy with the likes of Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi, Francis Uzoho and Isaac Success who are now with the team. I’m happy for them and I know with hard work, I can also be part of the team. I’m enjoying good football here and the difference between North Africa and Nigeria is the quality of pitches here. I didn’t play in the Nigerian league before travelling here but I think the football here is better because of the good pitches everywhere. I have two other Nigerian players here Emeka Ogbugh and Orji Okagbue  and we are all doing well here at Mouloudia Oujda. Between Amuneke and Ugbade Big shouts  to  my coaches  from the Under-17 days especially coach Emmanuel Amuneke and Nduka Ugbade.  Both Ugbade and Amuneke  really  talked some sense into my head about football and football money. Ugbade is like a father to me and I always  remember  all what he told me on the need to invest my money the day I bought an expensive wristwatch. All what I have today in terms of  investment is as a result of all they told me  and I’m really grateful to them. I made good money when I was with Esperance and I invested them in properties in Gboko, Makurdi and Abuja.  All what they told is right in my head and I would continue to follow their advice.   BULBWA: BASKET OF NUMBERS 1 Bernard Bulbwa scored the solitary winner as Nigeria U-20 team (Flying Eagles) defeated hosts Senegal to win a record eight title at the Total U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in 2015. Incidentally, the goal against Senegal in the Final Match was his only goal in the entire competition but the ‘ballistic missile’ was picked by CAF as the best goal of the tournament. 2 Bulbwa only featured for two local academy sides including Mkar Rocks in Gboko  and Shuttle Sports in Lagos from where he was spotted by national U-17 team handlers en route to Flying Eagles and professional career abroad with Esperance of Tunisia. 5 Despite reported interests from English clubs including Stoke City ,  Manchester City and Molde FK of Norway  , Bulbwa signed an impressive five-year contract with the Tunisian giants Esperance in April 2015 but left after just two seasons for Mouloudia Oujda in 2018.