The call by the Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo-led factional body of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) for its members to reduce the pump price of petroleum from N145-140 has generated heated debates amongst the stakeholders with many describing the proposal as counterproductive. Speaking with our correspondent at the weekend, Prince Adekunle Okunade, Southwest Zonal Chairman of the Private Depot of Oil and Gas Marketers Association of Nigeria (PDOGMAN) and other stakeholders said the directive was not in the overall interest of stakeholders in the oil and gas sector, especially those at the upstream sector. It may be recalled that Mr. Okworonkwo had prompted its members to slash N5 from the N145 official petroleum pump price in a bid to motivate Nigerians to return to their respective destinations to vote on February 23 and March 9 respectively. The IPMAN president urged his members nationwide to immediately implement the directives maintaining that the IPMAN’s decision to reduce the petroleum pump price followed President Muhammadu Buhari’s concern over the election postponement. However, Okuande, PDOGMAN considers the proposal as self-serving and has urged its members not to take it seriously. Raising some posers, Okunade asked, “Where would they get product?” adding, “Our members should not panic because this is not feasible. As a private depot there is no need for speculation.” Pressed further, he said, “What we are concerned about is how the government will increase our own margin because the margin of profit we make from the distribution and supply of products currently is not even encouraging is already a disincentive to business so going forward with such a proposal to further reduce pump price may be suicidal for business. Anybody that buys products from any private depot can never sell at N140 basically because there are lots of expenses and running cost such as AGO to power our tankers and generators at a lot of cost to the depot. There is no private depot that buys from marketers that can sell at N140 per litre it’s not just possible.”