Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday hailed Senator Oluremi Tinubu for devoting constituency funds to life changing projects. Inaugurating the Drug Rehabilitation and Skill Acquisition Centre built by the senator in Ajah, he described it as a centre built in honour of an All Progressives Congress (APC) leader in Lagos Central, Prince Tajudeen Olusi. The governor described the senator as a dogged, committed, consistent and determined woman, noting that despite the challenges she faced in the course of the project, which she began in 2012, she ensured its completion. “So much has been said by everyone on what she stands for. However, if I call her a dogged fighter, I will not be wrong. She has spent two terms in the Senate and has embarked on more constituency projects than any other senator. It’s a confirmation of how she fights for her community. “This is a project that began in 2012. She is relating the story of how the 22 community leaders (baales) put her on her toes and because she fought back, this is why we are here this morning. “If I say she is a very consistent person and a determined woman, I am not wrong. She has told you how she put us on our toes. We are happy that the resources she has committed to this project did not go down the drain. I thank her for putting us on our toes,” Ambode said. He added: “We all know what taking care of the needy entails, especially for a drug rehabilitation centre of this magnitude that has been put in place to take care of those ones who are on the streets without help. “In addition to this drug rehab centre, there is a skill acquisition centre to complement the need of whoever we are able to rehabilitate and empower them to become relevant in the community.” The governor directed the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation and the Ministry of Youth and Social Development to ensure that the facility becomes operational before May 29. In her welcome address, Senetor Tinubu said the project was facilitated through her 2012 constituency intervention project to address the menace and devastating consequence of drug abuse to youths. She hoped that the centre would help reverse the statistics that 40 per cent of youths indulged in the use of drugs, including marijuana, codeine, among others. Prince Olusi thanked the senator for her gesture, saying it was a special honour for him to be recognised. “I am very grateful that this project is dedicated to me. It’s a thing of joy. I thank Senator Oluremi Tinubu, she has shown that she has the requisite qualification and suitability to undertake this job because some are educated, but are not suitable,” he said.