The Association of Lagos Titled Chiefs, a non-political association of honorary chiefs and prominent members of Lagos who have served the nation meritoriously, has expressed concerns over erosion of self-introspection and self-regulation in the judiciary. It called for more attention to ethical demands of integrity and credibility in the judiciary, especially how to effectively combat cases of corrupt practices in the Legal Profession, Bar and Bench. In a statement by its President, Chief (Dr.) Mrs. Iyabo Foresythe, the association said: “As young men and women growing up in old Lagos, we recall the golden era of our judiciary when judgments of the courts were cited with approvals in foreign jurisdictions. “The legal profession and justice system have known better days and the Association calls for strengthening the system of self-introspection and self-regulation in the legal profession and judiciary.” The body also noted political tension especially between the two dominant political parties had been unduly charged, owing to the current judicial impasse. It said for Nigeria to enjoy the dividends of democracy and good governance, the three arms of government must stand as a tripod, without any of the arms subjugating and intimidating the others. Seeking self-help instead of adjudication on matters must be discouraged, it added. The association added: “The core principles of the rule of law, which stipulates that no one is above the law, should be the compass driving the wheel of justice. “We hold strongly that officers of the third arm of government should in their own character be beyond reproach, or at any rate should have so disciplined themselves that they are no breakers of the law. “In the line of duty, time and time again they are robed to pronounce judgment on those who have offended against the law, rebuke the evil and support the good. “We must all protect the reputation of the Nigerian Judges and save the judiciary, the last hope of the common man. “The law must therefore apply whatever the situation to everyone equally and must be strengthened to fight our current greatest challenge, corruption- a threat to economic stability.” The chiefs also called for initiatives that will promote and nurture Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) for the nation’s economic prosperity. Such initiatives, they said, will further impact on wealth creation, job creation and technology development.  