The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 presidential election Atiku Abubakar has continued to protest the outcome of the contest. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had on Wednesday declared incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the poll. But at a world press conference in Abuja Wednesday, Atiku described the outcome of the election as the implementation of “grand theft” of the people’s will. According to him, the figures declared by INEC as results of the presidential election did not add up. He said: “We have the real figures, we have the facts that were spoken so loudly on Saturday, February 23, 2019. “Let me say that I am not speaking as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party. I am speaking as a Nigerian when I say that the electoral fraud perpetrated by the Buhari administration this past Saturday cannot produce a government of the people for the simple reason that it does not reflect the will of the Nigerian people. “It is for this reason that I, Atiku Abubakar, reject the results declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission declaring Muhammadu Buhari as duly returned by the majority of lawful votes. “I am conferring with not just my party but also with the Nigerian people, on next steps, which will be revealed to the public shortly”. He appealed to Nigerians who may feel angry, disillusioned and let down by the process to remain calm and steadfast, saying that Rome was not built in a day. “This is a long journey but I am confident of victory. All hope is not lost. Stay strong, by the grace of God we shall triumph,” Atiku declared. Going specific, the PDP candidate said in Akwa-Ibom State for instance, the results showed a statistical impossibility of a 62 percent drop in the number of voters from the 2015 elections even when voter registration and PVC collection rates were much higher than in 2015. He said the pattern was repeated in strongholds of the Peoples Democratic Party, including Delta, Rivers, Abia and Benue states. Lamenting further, Atiku said: “As this was occurring, we saw another statistical impossibility wherein voter turnout and numbers increased astronomically in Borno State by an almost miraculous 82% in the midst of increased insecurity. “This pattern was also repeated in other strongholds of the All Progressive Congress. “One begins to ask if insecurity is conducive to higher voter turnouts and security is antithetical to high voter turnout. “It is further curious that the Peoples Democratic Party’s margin of victory in states outside the Southeast and South-south were extremely slim across board. That again is a statistical impossibility. “My dear Nigerians, it is for this reason that I Atiku Abubakar reject the result declared by the INEC which declared Muhammadu Buhari as duly returned by the majority of the lawful votes. “As I have always said, this year, is my three decades in Nigeria’s struggle for democracy. And this is the worst election in those 30 years. “I told Gen Abdsulsalami (Abubakar) two nights ago when he called me that not even the military conducted such a worst election. “This is a long journey but I am confident of victory. All hope is not lost, stay strong. By the grace of God, we shall triumph”. Atiku regretted that foreign investors and friends of Nigeria were already pulling out of the country, stressing the Stock Market lost N85 billion on Tuesday alone while election results were being announced. He appealed to them to be patient and keep to faith with the Nigerian people, saying their problem was not with the Nigerian people but with those that “stole” their mandate.