The National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB) has released the results for its November/December 2018 NBC/NTC and ANBC/ANTC examinations. It said the results were for employment in various technical and vocational areas as well as pre-requisite qualifications for admission to tertiary institutions. Registrar/Chief Executive, NABTEB, Prof. (Mrs.) Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe, who announced release of the results at a press briefing said 21,159 candidates representing 52.74 percent scored five credits and above including Mathematics and English Language while 31,369 candidates representing 78.19 percent scored five credits and above with or without English Language and Mathematics. The Registrar stated that the progress made by the body was far below expectation considering the nation’s quest for rapid technological development and the significant role of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in Nigeria. The NABTEB boss said the organization would soon embark on aggressive sensitization drive to make Nigerians see the need to take NABTEB examinations seriously in the country. According to her, “Let me emphasized that the recorded enrolment figure of 45,307 is still far below expectation considering the nation’s quest for rapid technological development and the significant role of Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) in Nigeria. “We are determined to improve on this increase in enrolment for our various examinations through aggressive sensitization and advocacy activities. “It is equally gratifying to note that the modalities put in place by the board to checkmate examination malpractice are yielding results. “Out of 44,603 candidates that sat for the examinations, 625 candidates representing 1.40 percent of those who sat for the examination, were involved in examination malpractice. “This is a slight reduction from the figure of the previous year 2017 November/December where examination malpractice by 1,124 candidates representing 2.54 percent was recorded.”  