PEOPLE’S Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has described himself as the author of restructuring. He claimed that he would be Nigeria’s President from May 29 and that President Muhammadu Buhari must go. The former vice president spoke yesterday at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, near Port Harcourt International Airport, Rivers State, while campaigning along with other PDP leaders. President Buhari will also be at the same Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium today in continuation of his presidential campaigns. Atiku, who was also accompanied by one of his wives, Jennifer, got to the stadium at 2:27p.m. for a campaign slated for 10a.m., when many tired members of the party had left the venue, owing to the scorching sun. One of the Masters of Ceremonies (MCs) repeatedly announced: “Close the back gate”, when the stadium was almost becoming empty. When the PDP vice presidential candidate, Peter Obi, was asked to speak, he kept shouting in Pidgin English: “Rivers people, make una wait now”. The rally was also attended by former President Goodluck Jonathan, who was accompanied by his wife, Dame Patience; Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike; his counterpart in Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; the Director-General of PDP’s Presidential Campaign Council, Dr. Bukola Saraki; the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, an indigene of Andoni LGA of Rivers state; and Rivers State Chairman Chief Felix Obuah, among other party leaders. Atiku said: “Let me use this opportunity to pay tribute to a Nigerian, who is patriotic, who is fearless, who is courageous, who is hardworking and who believes in this country. That Nigerian is Governor Wike. Wike and I have a few things in common. We no dey fear ooo. Do you want somebody we dey fear to lead you? It means if he is afraid, you will all be finished. I want to commend him (Wike) for the hard work he has done in Rivers State. I have been part and parcel of this state (Rivers) since 1984. I have not seen one single governor, who has transformed this state to such a level that you can compare it with any modernised state.” He added: “If you elect PDP, which I am sure you are going to elect, and if you elect Atiku, you know that I am the author of restructuring. I will give it (restructuring) to Niger Delta and I will give it to all parts of this country. We must restructure. “It was the Obasanjo/Atiku administration that started the East-West Road. Till today, it is not finished. It is not finished, because you did not vote for PDP in 2015 to continue. APC came and halted it. If you vote for PDP again, we are going to finish it.” He added: “Your ports that do not work to create jobs, the Port Harcourt Port and Onne Port, we will complete them so that we can create thousands of jobs for young men and women in Rivers State. “You can see that APC has not done anything for you. They have not done anything for Niger Delta. They have not done anything for Southsouth. Every development that you have got in Rivers State, Southsouth or Niger Delta is PDP. So, continue to vote for PDP. I beg you. “I want to assure you that I will protect the constitution (of Nigeria). You know sey nobody go court reach me in Nigeria, to protect our constitution. I will protect separation of powers. I will not interfere with the National Assembly, because I believe in checks and balances. I will not interfere with the judiciary, because it is part and parcel of our checks and balances. I will uphold the rule of law. I will not allow rule of law to be trampled by anybody.” The PDP presidential candidate also alleged that the APC was preaching violence, claiming that it was not the first time that President Buhari would do so, stressing that Nigerians wanted peace. He declared that “Buhari must go.” Jonathan stated that Atiku would be Nigeria’s president from May 29, 2019, describing Rivers State as totally PDP. He claimed that Nigeria had not made progress since he left office on May 29, 2015, after his humiliating defeat by Buhari, the first of its kind in Nigeria’s history, for a sitting president to lose election. Wike said: “We have darkness and light (in Nigeria). APC is darkness. PDP is light. Do you want to vote for darkness? It is a war between dictatorship and freedom. Do you want dictatorship? Dictatorship is APC. Freedom is PDP. Are you Atikulated?” Secondus described Atiku as the next president, alleging that APC was in disarray, with its leaders desperate and confused. The PDP National maintained that Atiku had capacity, energy, being innovative, would be able to work for 24 hours daily and would be fully in charge as the Commander-in-Chief’ Saraki urged Nigerians to move the nation forward, claiming that his party’s presidential candidate would change Nigeria and put an end to the current poverty. Obi said the only person, who could make Nigeria to work again, was Atiku. Rivers PDP Chairman assured that people of the state would give Atiku 100 per cent votes. The rally ended at 3:36 p.m.