Famous Juju maestro, Richard Akinwumni Olanrewaju popularly known as Chief Richardson of America is a musician has criticised how the new generation musicians, especially hip hop artistes are remixing the old school songs. Chief Richardson who has been for singing for over a decade, is the band leader of Afro Vibration Beats, a nine-member group. “Most of these popular guys, especially the hip hop acts are not musicians, because I know what I have gone through as a musician,” said Chief Richardson who is also an American citizen. “If not that music is in me, I would have fade away. I’ve been doing music for over 25 years and I still remains relevant in music circle, locally and internationally.” He also identified the lack of structure as the bane of Nigeria’s music industry. “Perhaps, the major problem we are having in Nigeria music industry is that we lack proper structure. Everybody does whatever they like and nobody could checkmate or control what they do. And though, few of them still have talents but still need to develop which I can help in sharping their musical skills,” he claimed. Chief Richardson has recorded many albums includes ‘My dear I love’, Democracy, ‘Spread Love, Not Aids (an awareness album), Precious Mother, Ajimobi. His latest record titled, Let’s Dance and Rejoice is currently doing well on YouTube Chief Richardson who hails from Oyo State, has lived in the United States of America for 39 years and visited countries like France, Germany, Belgium, Canada and other European countries. On the forthcoming general elections, the cultural promoter offered a piece of advice for Nigerians. “Like I sing in my album, titled, ‘Democracy’, what Nigerians deserves is true Democracy. Unlike other countries, our own democracy is upside down, a lot of people are suffering, people are dying and the economy is bad. What we need is basic things like stable electricity, good roads, well equipped hospital. “My advice to Nigerians both home and abroad is to come together and fight for our right by voting the right leader into power this coming election. “We should work together to rebuild the economy, because the way things are going so bad due to the lack of good governance. We should use our Voters card to flush out bad leadership.”