A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti, Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, has declared the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari has put an end to the tyrannical tendencies and dominance of few cabals in the country. Osinkolu said those few who had been dictating the pace and holding Nigerians by the jugular had now been retired politically to their ‘family fortress’ He further said the victory testified to the fact that Nigerians were appreciative of the monumental achievements of the APC-led federal government. Osinkolu stated that Nigerians have spoken vociferously through their votes that the present government was people-oriented. The Director General, Buhari/Osinbajo Campaign Organisation congratulated members of his council in Ekiti for delivering Ekiti State to President Buhari. He also commended Nigerians for amplifying their desire for a more prudent, descent and masses-oriented party like APC to lead Nigeria for another four years to afford it the opportunity of ridding the nation of corrupt tendencies. In his congratulatory message to Nigerians, especially the APC political family in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday, Osinkolu commended the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu for allowing the votes of Nigerians count via a transparent electoral process. “On behalf of the campaign council in Ekiti, I congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari for this resounding victory. It signposted the end of tyranny and political dominance of a few cabals in our dear nation, who had been dictating the pace and holding Nigerians by the jugular. “With this well amplified appreciation shown by the masses about President Buhari’s presidency, the PDP must have swallowed its pride and much touted mantra that the present government under Buhari’s watch was incompetent and not intellectually-inclined to drive Nigeria to success. “We felicitate with Nigerians at this auspicious time that they have decided to revalidate the government they put in place in 2015. “They have shown that they have implicit confidence in President Buhari  and we assure them that we shall set the ball rolling by consolidating on the gains of the past to make the future blissful and rewarding,” Osinkolu said.