The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday declared that President Muhammadu Buhari has failed the integrity test and has no moral rectitude to pontificate on corruption. The PDP said the President has entangled himself and soiled his administration in corruption. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said if there is any person whose activities of corruption have become a threat to the coming election, it is President Buhari. The main opposition party accused the President of financing his campaign with looted funds, while surrounding himself with politicians indicted for corruption. The statement was a reaction to President Buhari’s accusation of corruption against the PDP, particularly with regards to the opposition party’s campaign expenses. But the PDP it has all the while refrained from calling out the President on his “various indictments” for corruption, even during his reign as a military ruler.The statement reads, “A clear reading of Mr. President’s statement today shows that he is not yet aware that Nigerians have decoded his mastery of concealments of corruption in his Presidency and are no longer interested in his failed self-acclaimed fight against corruption. “President Buhari presides over the most corrupt and incompetent administration in the history of our nation, for which Nigerians are very eager to go to the polls on Saturday to vote him out of office. “If Mr. President were to be aware, he would have discovered that his entire surrounding reeks of moral, institutional and integrity corruption. “But since he has consistently claimed not to be aware of anything around him, it is imperative to let him know that the fish in his pond is rotten from the head. “Clinical examples can be drawn from his campaign council. Nigerians are aware that not a few members of this council have been indicted for malfeasance bordering on corruption “Is it not strange therefore that President Buhari who wants Nigerians to perceive his administration as fighting corruption, will cast a net into the ocean and bring out only corrupt people to run his campaign? “The truth is that Nigerians have seen more than enough of the fake fight against corruption and have come to a conclusion that President Buhari is merely paying lip services to this fight. He has no intention to do it and even if he had the opportunity to govern perpetually, he will never fight corruption. “Rather than seeking for sympathy votes, President Buhari should simply admit his failure in governance and allow Nigerians to build their future by getting our nation working again under the leadership of Atiku Abubakar”. 