THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday claimed to have uncovered plots by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig the forthcoming general elections in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Its claim came barely hours after the Federal Government accused the opposition party of targeting INEC and the police for attack  to prejudge the polls. The elections are scheduled for February 16 (presidential and National Assembly) and March 2 (governorshipm and House of Assembly). According to the main opposition party, INEC has been taking directives from the Presidency and the APC on how to manipulate the electoral process at various levels. But the PDP did not show any proof of its claims. Its spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan, accused the electoral body of having collected a list of people who will serve as electoral officials, including ad-hoc staff and returning officers at the polling units, from APC governors and candidates, across the federation. Alleging that the directive was dished out to INEC by the Presidency, the PDP claimed to be privy to how the lists were populated with members of the ruling party and agents of its candidates. Ologbondiyan said: “The PDP vehemently rejects this plot, which is tailored to ensure institutional manipulation of the electoral process, including accreditation, voting and collation of results at the polling units, which is the base of the elections. “The PDP holds that by following the directive of the APC in such dubious rigging scheme, the INEC Chairman, Prof. Yakubu Mahmood, has violated Section 29 (1) of the Electoral Act (as amended) and shows that he is in clear deficit of the required political will to conduct a credible, free and fair election.” The PDP demanded that INEC should, within 48 hours, publish the list of all officials and ad hoc staff that will play any  role in the election at all levels for verification by stakeholders. According to the party, any delay or refusal by INEC to publish the list with 48 hours would be a clear acceptance that it has been compromised. He said: “The PDP wants Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to note that the fate of our nation lies in his hands.”