An Ikeja Special Offences Court yesterday heard that Prince Semasa James made questionable transactions from the accounts of the estate of his father, the late King Afolabi James of Kwame Land in Badagry. A witness, Mr. Gbolade Lasisi, told Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo that he was invited to audit the estate’s accounts following suspicion of frudulent transactions. Lasisi, an auditior, was led in evidence by Oluwafemi, Olabisi, the prosecutor for the Special Fruad Unit (SFU). Semasa is alleged to have defrauded the estate of N500million. Lasisi said Semasa did not cooperate with him nor provide documents relating to the estate during the audit. “In the interest of fairness, the first defendant (Semase)  was advised to come with his own auditor and he was to provide some documents for the audit, but he did nothing. “When that did not happen, the SFU provided three bank statements that we used to carry out the exercise”, he said. Lasisi said he discovered that there were many deposits into accounts that were not connected to the estate. “Some of these accounts are the personal accounts of the first defendant, Kolade James, Komaj Nigeria Limited, Touch Down Travels and many others like that. “We recommended that if the estate had many administrators, there will be no issues of mistrust and the burden of giving report will not be on one person, as there will be other administrators giving reports to the beneficiaries.” Under cross-examination by defence counsel Martins Oyigbo, the witness alleged that the amount illegally diverted from the estate was about N500million. “In the charge sheet, I saw N500million, but in audit report (Exhibit K1) you probably have more than the N500million in the charge. “Some of the suspected fraudulent disbursements are- N48,514,354.92 on page five of Exhibit K1, on page seven, N112,531,646, on page eight, N272,381,253, on page nine,  N18,277,850 and on page 31, 242,500,” Lasisi said. The audit report dated February 5, 2018, covered 2002 to June 2017. “We tried our best to interface with the account officers but they (the defendants) made it difficult for us. “In analysing the bank statement, I used an excel spreadsheet to analyse all the figures. When the report was completed it was presented to the estate of Oba Afolabi James,” the auditor said. Semasa is standing trial with Afolabi Kazeem, his personal assistant. Their trial continues tomorrow.