With over 15 years experience as a media professional, Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, Lagos State House of Assembly candidate for Amuwo Odofin Constituency 1, harps on the need for more women participation in politics. Can we have a brief introduction of your background? My name is Honourable Mojisola Alli-Macaulay. I’m the APC flag bearer for Lagos State House of Assembly, Amuwo-odofin Constituency 1. I grew up at Festac. I schooled at Festac Primary School (School 5).  I had my elementary education there and my secondary education at Festac Girls Secondary School, Festac town. I proceeded to Navy Town Secondary School for my senior secondary school education.  I had my first degree at the Lagos State University, where I read History and International Relations. I also went to the Open University in UK where I read Social Sciences. I’m currently a law student at the Lagos State University. I’m studying common law, and I’m almost rounding off. That’s quite revealing but what profession do you belong? I am a journalist by profession, I dabbled into politics in 2008. My last place of work was TV Continental where I was a senior marketing executive. I became a councilor in 2010, contesting under the platform of Action Congress of  Nigeria and I emerged as the winner as an elected councilor for Ward B1. I was also the deputy leader of Amuwo-Odofin legislative council. Do you have parental background that influenced your being in politics? My late mother was very active in politics. She was a staunch supporter of women in politics. She was very strong and she was a devout Muslim. All her life, she just believed in humanity and nation building. Anything that had to do with the goodwill of the people, she was always in support. She was active in politics at that time, I think I took a bit from her. Primaries these days are mostly not free and fair, fueling insinuations that many of you were imposed… (Cuts in) No. I wouldn’t want to say that I was imposed. Everything I have today is based on merit. I worked hard for it. I earned everything I have on merit. So, my emergence was no difference, I worked hard for everything I am today, and to God be the glory. That’s not to say that some people would not feel cheated or aggrieved. But I wish to use this medium to appeal to all my brothers and sisters because in APC we are one big family, so they should let us put the past behind us and work towards greater Lagos State envisioned by its founding fathers. I promise to heed their good advice that can make our constituency the best in our Centre of Excellence. Will you be leveraging on your experience at the local legislative arm in the Lagos Assembly? Like I always say, that there is nothing comparable to being an experienced legislator at the grassroot. Only an experienced grassroot legislator would know where the shoe pinches at the grassroot. I have been part of the business of making by-laws, for the local government, at least for a number of years. So, I was part of the enactment of all the bylaws which means I know most of the problems that affect the local government at that time, which is still pertinent up until this time. I am going to focus on the youths of my constituency. I see them as the most vulnerable elements of the society. The woman and the children and the elderly, and as you know, that the business of legislation is making law but I will also go extra miles to consolidate on what is on ground, in terms of lobbying dividends of democracy to the people of Amuwo-Odofin  from top government establishments, and try to see how we can make the best of all these opportunities, to enrich and better the lives of our people. The Lagos APC appears divided… Like I always say, the All Progressives Congress is the most formidable political platform in Africa. So, if the leadership of the APC have presented Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the next flagbearer for the APC governorship  election, then they have done their permutations well. They have done their calculations, he’s the best man for the job. What can you say about the National leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu? He’s my leader. He’s undisputable leader. He’s a political juggernaut. You can never ever compare his political prowess to anyone. He’s an enigma, and people of such happen only once in 50years. He’s a very strong and powerful man; highly influential as we already know. I like his style. He’s a father, he’s a man who sees through you. He knows how to discover potentials and bring them to the forefront. And in terms of politics, he understands the game, he is a master of politics. I appreciate him and I wish him long life, and many more years to guide somebody like me. He’s someone I look up to all the time, and I’m just loyal to him and I have no regret for doing so. What are your plans for Amuwo Odofin Constituency 1? I will say that this is a very calculated opportunity that I would not take for granted. I will try my best to ensure that I give my all to my constituency. I will try as much as possible to lobby. Women are very good at lobbying. We try to make things happen. We are natural multipliers. Women will nurture anything you put into their care with absolute dedication, and you can trust me, that the best is what I will give. I would ensure that whatever gains that the local government or my constituency is enjoying at the moment, I will consolidate on it, I will improve on it, and I will see ways by which we can bring in goodies to all and sundries. All the people in my constituency will benefit from my stewardship in the Lagos Assembly and I make bold to say that no voter will regret casting their vote for me. I won’t discriminate against anyone no matter your religion, tribes or gender colouration. I wish to be the best lawmaker ever produced by Amuwo Odofin constituency 1. 