The APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has expressed confidence that President Muhammadu Buhari will emerge victorious in Saturday’s rescheduled presidential poll. The Council however said if the result of the election is not in favour of the President, he would gladly congratulate anybody who emerges winner in a free, fair and credible election. Deputy Director General of the Council, Arch. Waziri Bulama, also said that the President would thank Nigerians for the privilege to serve them and take a deserved rest. While expressing confidence about the President’s victory, Bulama said the Campaign Council has carried out an extensive campaign and was sure that Nigerians would keep fate with the president and with APC in this election. He said the Campaign Council was grateful to all its supporters and volunteers who carried out the campaign free of violence, adding that this was possible because of the charge given to them by the President on the Campaign Council inauguration day that he would not accept a violent campaign. Bulama said: “The outcome of this election, if free, fair and credible would be accepted by President Muhammad Buhari and by the party. “If we win, which is very, very likely, we will congratulate Nigerians for having participated in a free, fair and peaceful election. That is number one. “Number two, we are not even going to celebrate or over celebrate because an election success of President Muhammadu Buhari is another burden on him and this man would want to do more than he has done. “So, we will humbly thank Nigerians for given us their votes for another four years to build on what we have done. “But in the event Nigerians decided, in a free, fair and credible election to give their votes to another person, President Muhammadu Buhari will still thank Nigerians and will call the person that eventually won the election and congratulate him. “You know Nigeria is a very great and vast country – nearly 200 million people. In this campaign, we have done our very best to reach out to all Nigerians to mobilize, to energize, to sensitise them to come out and participate in the elections. “We went out campaigning in two fronts. Number one message was to persuade Nigerians as a sitting government that wants to see democracy consolidated, to see democracy grow and institutions work and see Nigerians having trust in the system. “Number two to persuade Nigerians to appreciate the modest effort our leader, President Buhari and our party are doing in addressing issues of insecurity, issues of corruption and impunity and the growth of Nigerian economy. “We have carried out an issue based campaign. We have carried out a decent and respectful campaign. “We have reached out to all Nigerians within the time of campaigns. All our leaders from the President to the vice president, governor’s, senators and their wives were all involved. “They were all out in the field meeting people and persuading them in these two areas.”