Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, at the weekend alleged that some persons were playing politics with the security of the country ahead of the general elections. The governor insisted that there was a general concern about the state of law, order and security ahead of the forthcoming elections describing the signs as worrisome. A statement signed by the Governor’s Special Adviser on Public Affairs, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said Dickson spoke in Lagos after receiving the Silverbird Group’s Extraordinary Achievement Award. The governor said people expected fair play and hoped on agencies and institutions of state to have the ability of doing their jobs. He said: “On the elections, we have expectations and we also have concerns. Expectation that there should be fair play and fair exercise of public power and authority and that the agencies and institutions of state are able to do their job. That the people are not intimidated and harassed during the elections. “Let me however alert that the signs are not too good. There are people playing politics with security – what I call the politics of insecurity and the insecurity of politics. It is unfortunate that sometimes people don’t have the courage to do what is right. We have political leaders who don’t give the right directives. “We are concerned about the state of law, order and security during the elections. There is also the general concern about the impartiality of the electoral umpires and their agents.” Dickson noted that his administration ensured maintenance of peace in Bayelsa and created an environment for development of the state. He said: “Silverbird is another wonderful Bayelsa brand. We are very proud of what our brothers in the Murray-Bruce family have done for our state, our country, Africa and the world. “The way the awards have been coming, I feel great that our sacrifice and modest efforts are being appreciated. Political office is all about service and making impactful changes in the lives of the people. So when one is appreciated, you draw encouragement from it. “We will continue to invest in the stability and security of our state. I assure Bayelsans that we will not stop working until the last minutes of our tenure. There is still a lot of work ahead. “We have built roads, hospitals, bridges, our children are on scholarship and no fewer than 120,000 Bayelsans have been captured under our health insurance scheme. No state in Nigeria has such a robust scheme. Indeed, there is a revolution going on in Bayelsa,” he said. Dickson described the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’ Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who presented  the award plaque to him as the president-in-waiting. On his part, Atiku lauded Dickson for building quality infrastructure in Bayelsa and for rendering wonderful service to his people and the country. He said: “I have been to Bayelsa where I saw world class university, world class roads and infrastructure. Therefore, this award is a befitting one. For those of you who have not been to Bayelsa, seeing is believing. Governor Dickson has rendered wonderful service to people of his state and Nigeria in general”. The Silverbird award is the fourth bestowed on Governor Dickson in the last one month. In January, he was decorated by the Daily Asset Newspapers (Governor of the Year), Daily Independent Newspapers (Man of Year) and The Sun Newspapers (Outstanding Politician of the Year). 