The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has warned the public, especially agro dealers, that the ban on methyl bromide as a fumigant for pest control still subsists. Methyl bromide is colourless, odourless, non-corrosive and non-flammable, but highly toxic to a broad spectrum of insects from egg to the adult stage. It is used as a fumigant in stored product pest management.
NAFDAC, in a statement by its Director-General, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, said methyl bromide is a class I ozone, which depletes substance (ODS). It depletes the ozone layer due to the release of bromine atom upon the break down of the molecule. Methyl bromide is also a scheduled chemical under the Montreal protocol for substances that deplete the ozone layer and was placed on a phase-out procedure from 2001. Nigeria effected the phase-out of methyl bromide by January 2015 and since then, the product has not been permitted for importation, NADFAC warned. “Methyl bromide is an extremely toxic vapour. In humans, methyl bromide is readily absorbed through the lungs. Most problems occur as a result of inhalation. Methyl bromide is a dangerous cumulative poison. First symptoms often are due to damage to the nervous system, and may be delayed from 48 hours to, as long as several months after exposure. This delay, combined with methyl bromide’s lack of odour, means that the victim may not realise that exposure is occurring until much time has passed,” NAFDAC said. The drug control agency however said it has information that some unscrupulous individuals have been importing methyl bromide illegally for use as pesticide in Nigeria, adding it will continue to carry out surveillance to identify such illegal importers with a view to sanctioning them severely in line with extant laws on drug control. “Farmers, exporters of agricultural produce and agro-input dealers are hereby advised to desist from using methyl bromide as a pesticide. Safer alternatives are available. Contact nearest NAFDAC office for advice on safer alternatives. Anybody in possession of methyl bromide should submit it to the nearest NAFDAC office,” the statement said.