A non-governmental-organisation (NGO), Strength in Diversity Development Center (SDDC) and some religious leaders have urged politicians to ensure peace reigns during tomorrow’s and March 2nd general elections. They made the submission at inter-religious and inter-denominational prayers for peaceful election. SDDC, in a communiqué signed by its Executive Director, Imam Shefiu Abdulkareem, said a national week of prayers and rally were held between February 8th  and 10th. The resolutions including reduction of hate speeches by educating the people to understand its consequences and urging religious leaders to desist from the act of hate speech. SDDC also bemoaned the act of vote buying, which it said has denied Nigerians from enjoying the good governance. “There must be penalty for such act (both the seller and buyer). The punishment must be enforced as well,” the group said. The Sarkin Fulani of Lagos, Alhaji Muhammed Bambado, at the conference, urged religious leaders to use their influence by calling on politicians within their domains to show commitment in preventing electoral violence. “Beyond ensuring peace, it has also become imperative for leaders to enlighten their subject and followers and encourage them to ask questions and seek clarification before going out to vote,” he said. The Chief Missioner of Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdur-Rahman Ahmad, said fake news and hate speech are worrisome trend that has bedevilled Nigeria, noting that fighting it has become a matter of urgency. He urged religious leaders to desist from circulating fake news and hate speech in their sermon. He said: “We are the one suffering the threat of social media not the owner, It is better we act now by exploring common humanity and not emphasising on parochial interest”. Bishop Mathew Daniels said vote buying creates a big distortion and hindrance to the democratic idea of a free and fair election that ensures that the electorates elect the leaders they deem fit to rule them.  