Members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS) may be in for a tough operating environment this year. There are fears that the upward review of the national minimum wage as well as the expected increase in election-related expenditure may push up inflation in the coming months. The likely delay in the passage of the 2019 budget may hurt the implementation of capital projects designed to improve infrastructure. Operators and experts say the accelerated passage of the budget and sound policy reforms, among others, are key imperatives to shield the sector from shocks, Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. The manufacturing sector currently accounts for just 9.5 per cent of Nigeria’s total Gross Domestic Product (GDP), a figure considered by operators and industry stakeholders as being grossly inadequate, compared with South Africa’s 15 per cent, for instance. Understandably, this has compelled operators under the aegis of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) to set an ambitious target to substantially improve the sector’s contribution to GDP and appreciably increase member-companies’ capacity utilisation this year and beyond. Capacity utilisation in the manufacturing sector slowed to 54.6 per cent in 2018, from 57.14 per cent in 2017, while the aggregate local sourcing of raw materials by the sector also dropped to about 57.87 per cent in 2018, from 63.21 per cent in 2017. To boost the sector’s capacity utilisation and enhance its GDP contribution, MAN President, Mr. Mansur Ahmed, announced last week that the association will establish well-structured and mutually beneficial linkages between big companies and smaller ones. Ahmed, who spoke during the MAN annual media luncheon in Lagos, said he also plans to expand the scope of strategic corporate partnerships not just in the country, but in Africa at large, adding that MAN will also promote policy consistency in a manner that gains already made are not pulled back while ensuring the revival of sectors that are currently struggling. While Mansur’s aspiration for a manufacturing sector sufficiently stimulated to contribute significantly to the nation’s GDP is legitimate and patriotic, there are strong indications that its realisation will not be a walk in the pack. Already, a thick cloud of uncertainty may have descended on the sector, as operators and experts predict a gloomy outlook this year, citing among others, the coming general elections, possible delay in the passage of 2019 budget, and likely increase in inflation rate, following the upward review of the national minimum wage. For instance, Cowry Asset Limited Managing Director, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, said the expected increase in electioneering activities and subsequent injection of excess liquidity into the system without a corresponding increase in national productivity may push up inflation. Chukwu said: “When elections come, parties and contestants spend a lot of money; such monies that come into circulation certainly have to be spent on goods and services. And when you have an increase in demand for goods and services and that increase is not matched by increase in supply of goods and services, the effect will be that prices will go up.” The likelihood of this situation and its implication is not lost on the Organised Private Sector (OPS) either. For instance, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) in its review of the state of the economy and the nation expressed concerns over the possibility of inflation rate remaining in the upward trajectory over the coming months. The policy advocacy institution observed that although, inflation rate dropped consistently for 18 months up to July 2018 when it hit 11.14 per cent, it has since been on the upward trajectory. Citing latest inflation numbers released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), LCCI President, Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase, said the year-on-year inflation rate for December 2018, which stood at 11.4 per cent, will likely remain in the upward trajectory over the coming months. He said this will be as a result of the upward review of the national minimum wage, as well as increase in election related expenditures. He, therefore, said it was important to enhance non-oil sector productivity to increase output and moderate inflation. Ruwase, who spoke at a press briefing in Lagos, last week, said political transition and electoral process in the country have far reaching implications for the economy because political and social stability are critical factors that drive investors’ confidence. “There is a strong nexus between political instability and economic progress. An unstable political environment naturally escalates the risk of investment; it creates anxiety and undermines confidence of investors,” he said. The LCCI boss listed other risks associated with the election period to include security risks, governance and policy risks and risk to existing contractual obligations.  Fears over delayed 2019 budget Even before Mansur hinted of plans to raise the bar of the manufacturing sector’s GDP contribution, MAN had earlier noted that technically, from the observed trends in the nation’s budget cycle, the 2019 budget proposal might undergo late passage. MAN in its outlook for 2019 was emphatic that the resultant negative effect of such delay on the overall economy might be colossal for an economy whose current growth rate is still fragile, despite exiting recession. Since the economy exited recession in 2017, it has maintained positive, but fragile growth. There was constrained improvement in the GDP figure in the third quarter of 2018. The year started with 1.95 per cent first quarter growth, and declined to 1.5 per cent in the second quarter. It grew back to 1.81 per cent in the third quarter. The economy’s fragile growth, according to experts, is reflected in the growing unemployment figure in the country. For instance, the latest report by the NBS showed that the number of unemployed Nigerians rose from 17.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 to 20.9 million in the third quarter of 2018. This represents a rise from 18.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2017 to 23.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2018. This has prompted calls by real sector operators for sustained efforts to create the enabling environment to attract more private capital to boost investment, spur growth and create jobs. MAN Director-General, Mr. SegunAjayi-Kadir, attributed the slowed growth in national output to delay in the passage of the 2018 budget. And this was why he urged the National Assembly to speedily pass the 2019 budget to stimulate economic growth in the face of mounting unsold inventories recorded in 2018. He said early passage of the budget will allow funds to be injected into the system for use. MAN also said given the poor state of infrastructure, it expects the government to allocate significant amount for capital expenditure, while moderating the recurrent expenditure. The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) National President, Iyalode Alaba Lawson, said the Chamber commends the increased allocations to capital projects in the annual budget. She, however, lamented that the late passage and late implementation of the budget have negative effects on the implementation of capital projects from one fiscal year to another. “This has serious and negative impacts, especially for the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). And given the fact that over 37 million Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) employ over 60 million people in Nigeria, we must pay attention to this issue. “Infrastructure such as road, power, rail and water are critical to effective functioning of the SMEs and government must pay attention to these areas. “We are therefore, calling for the stringent implementation of capital projects designed to improve infrastructure as listed in the budget,” Lawson said.  Outcry over rising debt About 25 per cent of the 2019 budget size of N8.8 trillion amounting to N2.140 trillion will go into servicing debts. The Federal Government’s continued borrowing within the domestic market, according to experts, will continue to limit the real sector from accessing funding for expansion and growth. They also cautioned that while the effect of the increasing debt might not be immediate in totality, it could be catastrophic in the long term with a chunk of revenue consumed by debt servicing to the detriment of infrastructure development.  Insecurity also as a sore point The growing insecurity in some parts of the country, according to Ruwase, has become worrisome because of its grave implications for businesses and investors. Indeed, Nigeria has been grappling with protracted security challenges bordering on terrorism by Boko Haram blood hounds in the Northeast, herdsmen/farmers clashes, religious and ethnic crisis, attacks on oil installations, kidnapping, armed robbery and  banditry. Expectedly, the impact of these security challenges on businesses and investors’ confidence has been profound, with Ruwase pointing out, for instance, that there are no significant private sector investments in the Northeast for now. Also, the increase in the cost of providing additional security by operators in some key sectors of the economy such as oil & gas, telecommunications, manufacturing and banking, have become a source of worry. The LCCI helmsman also said the serious security issues confronting the country have grave implications for food security, as it could result to high food inflation forced by constrained investment in agricultural production and agro-allied industries. Already, many rural farmers are said to be holding back from the current planting season because of the fear of attacks by herdsmen, a situation that could hamper their ability to produce food. Ruwase listed other unsavoury consequences of the growing insecurity across the country to include shortage of local raw materials for agro-allied businesses, negative effects on investors’ confidence, as well as adverse global perception for the country. He, therefore, implored the Federal Government to prioritise safety of lives and property. “It is important to consider and review current security strategy to ensure safety of lives and property,” he said.  The imperativeness of reforms LCCI Director-General, Mr. Muda Yusuf, said given the challenging economic conditions, key policy reforms would be imperative to support and sustain macro-economic stability. He listed some of the reforms that would put the sector and the economy on the path of sustainable recovery this year to include, a foreign exchange management framework that reflects the market fundamentals and the acceleration of the economic diversification agenda. Others are the normalisation of Lagos ports environment and the intensification of the oil and gas sector reform, especially the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). He also said there is need to reduce the cost of governance at all levels and improve domestic revenue to reduce volatilities of government revenues, among others.