You must count yourself lucky if, without a doctor’s prescription, you easily recovered from the “bomb blast” of last Saturday. By “bomb blast”, I mean postponement last Saturday of the 2019 presidential election when the polity was in full agitation. I have learned since 1979 presidential election between Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Alhaji Shehu Shagari, which the Obasanjo military regime and the Supreme Court rigged in Shagari’s favour, to easily soar above shock waves of any heat wave, and move on with my life, unscathed, recognising that a people deserve the leaders they have. Our religions warn us about this. But we pay no attention. Christianity says we would reap whatever we sow, including I believe, the votes we sow in poolling booths. Islam teaches that the creator is as near to us as the muscles of our necks and that our leaders, will come from our ranks.  I take this to mean that our leaders will be good to us if we ourselves are good people, and that they will be nasty to us if we are a nasty lot. So, all the noise of the ongoing election campaign about MR CLEAN and MR unclean or about MR honest or MR thief will end up in a leader that will tell us, if, as a nation, we are clean or unclean, honest or thieving. So, when I heard about the “blast”, I quickly pulled myself together, put the election behind me, sat behind my desk and began to write this column. Beyond Depression The first part of this series, begun last Thursday, was virtually all about depression, the role of the stars in it, that state of health in which the blood radiations fall so low as to make the brain and other organs prone to take over or partiàl use by souls. The challenges many people went through last year went beyond these conditions, as suggested.  Vaginal and Uterine questions  For as long as there are women, these questions are unlikely to disappear. Many of them love sweet things and pop up antibiotics for almost every discomfiture. These include the risks of vaginal and systemic candidiasis, a condition in which candida, a yeast form, establishes a strong hold on their bodies. Many of them do not suspect this may come on when their tongues begin to spot a graying overlay carpet on the pinkish red colour of the tongue, either in patches or wholly. The trouble is that candidia may migrate from this region into the uterus and cause, among other things, uterine fibroid Havocs.  I am not suggesting that candida is the major cause of uterine fibroids. But I think it is reasonable to number it among the 20 or more possibilities, which researchers have identified because, in uterine fibroid tissue, candida  is as common a feature as the presence of, say, viruses and bacteria. Viruses, bacteria and parasites invade some vaginas with weak immunity. Women are advised that douching with toilet soaps is as unsparing of vaginal immunity as always engaging in sex. In the animal kingdom, females engage in sex only when they are on “heat”  a special time in their menstrual cycle. I once farmed pigs and rabbits. If you take a boar (the male pig) to the pen of the sow (the female) when she isn’t on “heat”, the sow is likely to attack the male organ. The same sometimes happens in the rabbit cage. But for most human women nowadays, there is no time table for sex, no regulation. It has been theorised by some researchers that, because the semen is alkaline, too muçh alkalinity in the vagina can erode its protective acidity, make it alkaline and expose it for colonisation by germs, yeast and parasites. It does not matter, say these researchers, if a woman has sex with the same man all the time. It may be worst when there are multiple sexual partners. Vaginal infections, whether they are candida,or of bacterial origin, causing greenish yellow and cheesy odour, and even parasites, causing, like the others, inflammation, pain, discharge, itching etc respond to goldenseal root powder and mango seed extra douches. This treatment would need to be followed up with insertions of probiotic (friendly bacteria) capsules or tablets, to repopulate the protective friendly bacterial flora of this region. Whether in the intestines or elsewhere, what friendly bacteria do is that they produce LACTIC ACID, which inhibits the growth of unfriendly bacteria and parasites. I do not encourage cleaning the vagina with Nigerian made yoghurt because most of the brands contain no live lactobacillus  or acidophilus to make lactic acid. Rather, the producers merely add lactic acid to fermented milk powder. So, after the washout, where is the probiotic that would regrow it’s population in the vagina? One of the most prominent helps for women with vaginal infections in the past few years goes by a variety of proprietary names. The one always handy for me is CLEAN WOMAN. It is inserted into the vagina on the third day after the monthly period stops. There is a gel inside it which is released into the vagina and a gel applicator. It is left on for three days. When it is removed, all that it has induced out of the system, from the tubes and the uterus, may be hand removed if not completely extruded when the insert is removed. The debris are flushed out with a special tea pumped in, using the gel applicator. The gel is recommended for vaginitis. The pill reaches far beyond this area and is suggested for pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) and some fallopian tube issues. For many women last year, uterine fibroids were a major health challenge. Some alternative medicine practitioners helped them with the traditional medicine formulas made from fibrous roots of plants such as the coconut, relying on the signature resemblances of both. Research suggests no fewer than about 20 possible causes. An interesting one mentioned by the late Mrs Elizabeth Kafaru and Dr Catherine Northrope, at that time a gynaecologist of 35 years in the United States and author of  WOMEN’S BODY,  WOMEN’S WISDOM, suggests that when women become  too desperate to have children, but have not either because they have no husbands or some other factors hinder this strong wish, nature compensates with growths in the uterus. While it may be argued that uterine fibroids are not productive growths, many Nigerian women, who are faced with this challenge fall within the description of Mrs Kafaru and Dr Northrop’s. This concept is a mind over matter concept. When you have to catch a flight at 6am and wish to wake up at 4 am, and tell your body so, your eyes open at about 4am. Is the fibroid an answer to a strong baby wish that is yet unanswered? Traditionally, uterine fibroid challenged women are advised to pay attention to other possible causes, which may include the following: These questions need to be addressed. I know of a woman who is a happy woman today. She was to have an IVF. Everything was set. She took the medications her doctors prescribed. But they made the endometrial wall become so enlarged with fluid that the doctors said if there was no resolution of this state of affairs in 10 days, the IVF would not be possible. This was because the fertilised egg would not be able to implant and embed itself in the womb. She was advised to do camphorated castor oil massage, take cayenne for improving blood circulation like the massage, and use a medicated panty liner . The panty liner was substituted for HAPPY WOMAN, which was not available. When she went for her review before the implantation, the situation in the uterus had normalised. The fluid build up had disappeared. The implantation was successful. About two weeks later, she called me on the telephone to complain that she was vomitting, could not eat and was too weak to go to work. She was dizzy. I explained these could be signs of pregnancy and advised that her husband take her to the doctors who should address these questions since, meanwhile, she was now abroad. Estrogenated women are advised to keep off food sources of estrogen such as milk and egg. Female cows are given estrogen in the diet and via injections to stimulate their mammary glands to produce milk everyday. This is unnatural. The estrogen gets into the milk and humans take it. While this may increase the estrogen load in some women, it may cause low sperm count in some men as their testosterone levels drop and their estrogen levels rise.This phenomenon has been found to bring girls to early puberty, say at 10 years, in some countries, whereas, in years gone by, girls need to attain puberty at about 15 years of age.  Egg has the same problem as estrogen is fed to the chickens through the diet to make chickens lay egg almost everyday. This estrogen gets into the human diet and system. Soft plastics, such as pure water satchets, also release estrogen into the water when it is exposed to heat or sunlight. Anyone who wishes to know more about the dangers of pasteurised milk to fertility and, perhaps, the reproductive organs should go online and read about PROFESSOR POTTENGER’S CATS. When the fibroids are bleeding or when the menstrual bleeding is unabating, there are herbs to stop it. One of them is SHEPHERD’S PURSE. It stops almost all forms of internal bleeding, all things being equal. Another such herb is NIMOSA PUDICA or  SENSITIVE PLANT. It is so sensitive that it recoils on touch, suggesting it is a nerve tonic as well. The Yorubas of Southwestern Nigeria call it PATANMO. This means”put your lap together”. For a woman, who is bleeding the message is:that, the “tap” is locked. Another protease enzyme known as chymo-trypsin breaks peptones down into amino acids,the simplest form of proteins. Fats and oils have their own digestion process, using enzymes as well. When enzymes are taken with food,they support the digestive process. But when they are taken on empty stomach,they are said to be used by the immune system to defend the body and keep it in top form. Enzymes taken on empty stomach are, therefore, said to be needed for breaking down such stubborn and mangled tissue as Uterine fibroids. Used this way, these enzymes are called PROTEOLYTIC ENZYMES. They may come as single enzymes or as a proprietary  blend of  enzymes. Years ago, NEPRINOL was readily available in the Nigerian market. It consisted of papain, an enzyme found in pawpaw seeds, leaves, milk etc, among others. NEPRINOL came , also, with the enzyme found in stem of pineapple  called bromelain. Other important enzyme constituents of neprinol are nattokinese and serrapeptase. Nattokinese dissolves any clot in the body and very well handles high cholesterol levels.This makes it good for preventing heart attack and strokes. Serrapeptase is interesting. It reminds me,always ,of my boyhood when children of my age enjoyed cracking the cocoon of silkworm to get it out ,and roast it for food. The cocoon was so hard that we sometimes needed an axe to crack it.  Surprisingly, the silk worm cracks it with little or no effort, as easily as a chicken, chick cracks the egg shell to come out of it when it is mature to begin its life in the open air outside. The silkworm simply secrets an enzyme, which dissolves the cocoon. The chemical composition of this enzyme, which researchers have studied, is what they have now formulated as SERRAPEPTASE. So, serrapeptase  can now be used in enzyme therapy to dissolve some growths. There is evidence that it has helped some people challenged with uterine fibroids and congestive obstructive pulmonary disease, (COPD), among many ailments which can be tackled with enzymes therapy. In the absence of NEPRINOL in the market, its component enzymes are sometimes used in single forms and at higher dosages. This part of the series is not intended to address the full range of these therapies for uterine fibroids. A lifetime of such work may not even be enough for that purpose. The foregoing is intended merely to invite attention to the availability of natural medicine succour for those women who are challenged with this condition.