Ekiti State Governor Dr. Kayode Fayemi has urged teachers in the state to use their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) positively for the progress and sustainable development of the state. Fayemi said the state would benefit more in terms of educational, infrastructural, industrial development with stronger alignment with the Federal Government. He added that since he became the governor, development partners and government agencies are already supporting the activities of the state in the education sector due to his alignment with the government at the centre. The governor spoke in Ado-Ekiti,the State capital during an interactive session with representatives of teachers across primary and secondary schools at the  Ekiti parapo pavilion. He disclosed his administration had paid the SUBEB counterpart fund for 2016, 2017 and 2018 to the tune of N3.3 billion, which is expected to bring N6.6 billion to the state for renovation of some schools, provision of necessary facilities and educational materials in the public schools. The governor stated the government is committed to recruitment of teachers in the state, promising the exercise would be devoid of political and community coloration. According to him: “We have a golden opportunity in Ekiti. And the opportunity is that we can consolidate better on these positive steps we have taken if we have a government in Ekiti that is in a very strong alignment with the government at the center. “I am not a promoter of mainstream politics for its own sake but I want to assure you that Ekiti has an advantage through me this time around. “If we have a strong relationship with the Federal Government, it will be difficult for Ekiti people to enjoy the benefits of such a relationship. “So, we are in campaign season and I know you have PVCs. For our own sake let’s use it positively so that we can all enjoy the benefits of good governance. “I don’t want Ekiti to be retrogressive but rather progressive so that the needs of our younger generation can assured and not compromised.”