Regular screening will help detect and prevent deaths from cancer, founder of Medicaid Cancer Foundation and wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu, has said. Mrs. Bagudu noted that cancer is preventable, if detected early. She gave the advice during the World Cancer Day celebration organised by the foundation in Abuja. Health Minister, Prof Isaac Adewole, Women Affairs Minister, Hajiya Aisha Abubakar, and Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, led other participants in lightening up the Abuja city gate in orange and blue to create awareness about the disease. Mrs Bagudu, who was appointed into the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) last year, said there were late detection cases as well as poor screening in the country. “We detect it in stage three and four as opposed to industrialised countries where detection is as early as stage one and two. So, when we pick it early, it makes sense that the treatment will be easier and more successful,” she said. The foundation presented a cheque of N10 million to 10 cancer survivors. Bagudu said there were  investments  in cancer advocacy, adding that the country has moved to a stage where awareness is so great that there is increased clamour for the inclusion of the disease in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). Adewole said it was important for Nigerians to note that cancer was not a death sentence, saying: “40 per cent of cancers could be prevented; 40 per cent could be detected early and cured; while 20 per cent would require palliative care. However, the challenge in Nigeria is that 80 per cent of cancer cases are diagnosed late, thus 80 per cent of sufferers die within five years,” The minister added that two  linear radiotherapy machines had been installed at the National Hospital, Abuja, adding that they  cater for at least 200 people daily. He said bunkers and brachytherapy machines were also installed at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), University Teaching Hospital Benin (UNBTH) as well as the teaching hospitals in Sokoto, Ibadan and Ilorin, among others.  