Fifteen candidates with their political parties vying for Borno central senatorial seat on Wednesday withdrew and adopted Gov. Kashim Shettima for Saturday’s re-scheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections. The candidates said they took decision to endorse Shettima above other candidates due to his unparalleled experience. Chairman of the forum, Abdulkadir Fema, who is also the senatorial candidate of Action Peoples Party (APP) for Borno Central, disclosed the position of the political parties at a news conference in Maiduguri. He said:  “No one has acquired the kind of experience necessary to represent Borno central in terms of understanding the demands of the military’s operational efforts, the existing gaps, the humanitarian issues and the next phase of rebuilding as much as the APC’s candidate for Borno central, Alhaji Kashim Shettima”. Fema, in company of ten other candidates at the briefing, mentioned other parties involved in the endorsement as  candidates of Action Peoples Party (PPA), Better Nigeria Progressives Party (BNPP); Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA); New Progressive Movement (NPM); Yes Electorates Solidarity  (YES); Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN); Nigerian Elements Progressive Party (NEPP); Allied Peoples Movement (APM); Nigeria Community Movement Party (NCMP); Coalition for Change (C4C); Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN); Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP); Independent Democrats (ID) and Democratic Alliance (DA). There are 20 candidates for Borno central senatorial election. They said: “We, the under-signed candidates of 15 political parties for Borno central senatorial election, have after consultations with our supporters and amongst ourselves, resolved to withdraw from the February 23, 2019 re-scheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections in unanimous support for candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC for Borno central senatorial, Alhaji Kashim Shettima. “We took this decision based on our conviction that even though each of us has the capacity and the patriotic zeal to competently representing the people of Borno central in the 9th Senate, we are of the opinion that in the next national assembly, three major issues will largely define the representation of Borno people.” They added: “As every objective and reasonable mind will agree with us, of all the candidates for Borno central senatorial election, no one has acquired the kind of experience in necessary to represent Borno central in terms of understanding the demands of the military’s operational efforts, the existing gaps, the humanitarian issues and the next phase of rebuilding as much as the APC’s candidate for Borno central, Alhaji Kashim Shettima. “He has in Borno’s most difficult time, been serving as Governor. He has proved to sufficiently understand these issues. We believe that the experiences he has gained and the contacts will be necessary for Senator representing Borno to engage relevant me ministries and agencies of the federal government including engagements with the Ministry of Defense and different service chiefs, Ministry of interior, Ministries of foreign affairs, Education and Industry and agencies like the North East Development Commission and the UN amongst others to deploy legislative tools of lobbying and the exchange of support through legitimate trade by barter negotiations to help in fast-tracking the kind of support Borno needs and deserves. “We are so confident that Kashim Shettima will, insha’Allah, represent Borno as much and even better that the way we intended to do. “Allah has, by making him Governor in Borno’s challenging years, afforded him a superior advantage that the people of Borno stand to gain from his potentially efficient representation, as the next Senator for Borno central senatorial zone, insha’Allah. “We shall be willing to pass to him our suggestions with the hope they will further enrich his representation of our people. We thank members of our respective parties and supporters for accepting our unanimous position that is the best interest of Borno State. “We appeal to all of them and the entire electorates of Borno central senatorial zone to cast their votes for the APC in favour of Alhaji Kashim Shettima.”