The Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) said yesterday that Demola, the stoned ballot box snatcher, is not their member. A statement by OPC Publicity Secretary Yinka Oguntimehin said OPC was a responsible organisation that believed in democratic process and freedom of choice during elections. The incident, he said, was not connected to OPC. He said: “We are not touts or ballot box snatchers. As law-abiding citizens, we will never do anything to compromise our integrity. Let it be known that OPC is not a political organisation. We reaffirmed our commitment to a peaceful, free, fair and credible election. OPC under Aare Gani Adams has nothing to do with thuggery or violence. “I need to state clearly that Demola is not a member of our group. Ours is a group of professionals and educated members. We have structures across the country. People can attest to the fact that the Aare Gani Adams-led OPC are not vagabonds or thugs. “We have transformed into a new OPC, with a clear-cut ideology. Part of our ideologies is to propagate peace across the country, especially in the Southwest.” •Police assure of security at Okota 
•Hoodlums on rampage in Orile The police in Lagos have dispelled rumours of an ethnic clash at Okota following attack on a suspected thug identified as Demola, during the elections on Saturday. It was gathered that Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu had held meetings with community leaders in the area on the need to forestall any attack. The Nation learnt that security has been tightened at Okota following rumours of a reprisal by members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC). Demola was said to belong to the group. He was pelted with stones on Saturday afternoon by a mob after he and others allegedly disrupted elections in most polling units at Okota, Lagos Mainland. Although Demola was initially feared killed, findings by The Nation yesterday revealed that the suspect was rescued and taken to a private Hospital, GraceValley, Ago Palace Way, around 1:30pm. Doctors at the hospital told our correspondent he was barely conscious after losing so much blood from the injuries on his head. They said they battled to stabilise him for over two hours. “It is true he was brought to our clinic. The Divisional Police Officer, Oyin Nemisighan, and her team brought him. He was barely conscious and had lost so much blood. “We had to stabilise him, treat his wounds and refer him to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idiaraba for further attention. He was in our clinic for over two hours,” Dr. Matthew Amusan told our reporter. Also, Dr. Bath Ufoegbunam told our correspondent that Demola was stable and he had been in touch with LUTH. “I have been in touch with LUTH. The young man is alive and stable. The last time I called, I was told he has been discharged,” he said. Hoodlums went on the rampage at Sari-Iganmu in Orile on Saturday evening, looting shops and houses. It was gathered that the miscreants, who returned to the area to wreak havoc yesterday morning, stole residents’ valuables and vandalised vehicles. The Nation learnt that it took the intervention of policemen from Orile Division to restore peace to the community. Confirming his discharge from the hospital, police spokesman Chike, a Chief Superintendent (CSP), said investigations were on in respect of the issue. He allayed fears of outbreak of violence at Okota, saying more security operatives had been deployed. Oti said: “The young man did not die. He was rescued by the police and taken to hospital. I confirm that he has been discharged from hospital. “There is no tension at Okota. People should not be afraid to go about their lawful businesses. The command has provided adequate security to prevent crisis. “Our men are everywhere. The police commissioner has deployed adequate security in that area. We have our riot squad and our intelligence unit all over the place. We also have our men patrolling streets at Ago Okota.” On the Sari-Iganmu incident, Oti said the police received distress calls around 5am on Sunday that hoodlums were fighting in the area. He said: “We received a distress call that area boys were engaged in a free for all and policemen were deployed for quick intervention. “On sighting the policemen, the hoodlums took to their heels to evade arrest, but 25 of them were arrested. The DPO has deployed patrol men there to avoid further violence. “Nobody came to report that anything was damaged or stolen. Our officers intervened as soon as we heard that information. The Commissioner of Police has directed that the arrested suspects be profiled and sent to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation,” Oti said.     