No  fewer than 53,888 retirees  with low savings in their Retirement Savings Account (RSA) have benefited from the Pension Enhancement Programme, the Acting Director-General, National Pension Commission (PenCom) Mrs Aisha  Dahir-Umar has said. In an interview in Lagos on the commission’s achievements in 2018, the Acting DG said the retirees were those receiving their monthly pensions through the Programmed Withdrawal payment mode. She said the programme, aimed at bringing succour to existing retirees, was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to uplift retirees’ welfare. She explained that it was discovered that the returns being generated by the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) on the balances of the RSAs of  the affected retirees could be used to enhance their monthly pensions. According to her, the commission is also able to introduce the Multi-Fund Structure for the RSA Funds, Micro Pension Plan, reduction in fees charged in the  industry and Interactive Sessions on the CPS for the Labour Centres. Mrs Dahir-Umar said: “The year 2018 started on a positive note with the implementation of the pension enhancement for retirees, which was approved by the commission in December, 2017. It was discovered that the returns being generated by the PFAs on the balances of the RSAs of majority of the affected retirees could be used to enhance their monthly pensions. “Consequently, the Commission implemented the pension enhancement which resulted in increase of monthly pensions of 53,888 retirees on Programmed Withdrawal as at December, 2018. The implementation of the pension enhancement is one of the significant milestones attained since the commencement of the CPS. This action, aimed at bringing succour to existing retirees, is in line with Mr. President’s avowed commitment to uplifting the welfare of retirees and Nigerians in general.’’ She continued: “The Commission also introduced the Multi-Fund Structure for the RSA Funds effective on 1 July, 2018. Prior to this, there were only two Funds: the RSA ‘Active,’ which comprised all active contributors, and the ‘Retiree’ Fund for retired employees. Under the Multi-Fund structure, the Funds are structured demographically to fit the risk appetite of the Contributors. It is expected that young contributors who have longer working years and relatively higher risk appetites would desire more investments in variable income instruments than older contributors or retirees who are risk averse and would prefer ?xed income investments. It is noteworthy to highlight that this initiative has remained in consideration since 2010 when the Commission embarked on a comprehensive review of the Investment Regulations culminating in the amendment issued in 2011.” Speaking on reduction in fees, she said the commission also commenced the implementation of staggered reduction in fees chargeable by the pension industry. “The new fee regime was hinged on the need to reduce the costs/charges to pension funds and thus enhance returns to contributors/retirees. The reductions were effected in July, 2018 upon implementation of the Multi-Fund structure with further reductions slated for 2019 and 2020. On micro pension plan, the Acting DG said the guidelines for its implementation were approved in September 2018, adding that it will expand coverage of the CPS to the informal sector. The Commission will launch the MPP this year. Mrs Dahir-Umar listed other achievements in 2018 as: “The commission organised separate interactive sessions for the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC). The sessions were premised on the need to educate employees on the provisions of the Pension Reform Act 2014 and other operational activities, in addition to providing updates on some pertinent issues. ‘’These interactive sessions were also aimed at enhancing stakeholder engagement towards smooth implementation of the CPS.’’