•Urges party members to ensure APC’s victory All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu yesterday urged members of the ruling party to work hard to deliver at least three million votes for President Muhammadu Buhari in tomorrow’s poll. Tinubu gave the challenge at a parley with party members and supporters at a stakeholders meeting in Ikeja. The party leader, who spoke mainly in Yoruba, said the APC in the state could not afford not to deliver on the promise of overwhelming votes for the President. Tinubu said the President trusted in him and party members to win resoundingly in the state, urging party faithful to do their best to meet and exceed expectations. Reiterating his commitment to Buhari’s re-election, the party chieftain said he would give his all to ensure Buhari’s victory. He said: “I want you our party members to go all out and vote massively for President Muhammadu Buhari. “You must deliver at least three million votes or more to the president to show that the whole state is firmly for him. “I have been made the co-Chairman of the APC presidential campaign committee because of the trust the President reposed in me and party members to always. “We should justify that trust and give our best for Buhari and Osinbajo on Saturday”,he said. Tinubu urged party members to mobilise other members and residents within their neighbourhoods to vote for the President. He challenged all members to ensure that APC wins in all the polling units across all the wards. The party leader said election co-ordinators had been appointed to mobilise votes for APC across the state, and urged them to deliver on the assignment. Tinubu said party executive members were automatic co-ordinators in their respective areas, urging them to get results. He promised that all members would be compensated based on the results they delivered in their respective areas. Tinubu urged members to shun electoral malpractices as the party was not known for such. He also urged party members to eschew all acts of violence  but conduct themselves peacefully ,during, before and after the election. He expressed confidence that the president would not only emerge victorious in the election, but would win resoundingly. Tinubu said the governorship candidate of the party in the state, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, would take the state to greater heights and urged residents to vote massively for him on March 2. Tinubu urged the APC members to stand with Sanwo-Olu the same way they supported him during the last primaries. The party leader said issues concerning the primaries had been resolved, promising all those who could not get tickets would be compensated with appointments. Tinubu commended the state Deputy Governor, Mrs. Idiat Adebule for her loyalty to the party, saying that attribute was expected of every party man. The party leader said the deputy governor stood with the party when it mattered, urging women in the party to follow her example. He said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) represents ineptitude and urged Nigerians to reject the party at the polls. Speaking, Sanwo-Olu said the APC was passionate and committed about a better and greater Nigeria and Lagos. He urged residents to vote massively for Buhari on Saturday and him on March 2 for the delivery of more democratic dividends. Former Minister of State for Defence Musiliu Obanikoro, former Lagos Transportation Commissioner Kayode Opeifa and Southwest Women Leader of the party, Mrs Kemi Nelson were some of the prominent party personalities at the meeting. Also at the meeting were: members of the party’s Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), including Dr. Abayomi Finnih and Alhaji Tajudeen Olusi.