The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, has revealed that the installation of Chief Mrs. Theresa Oyekanmi as the substantive Iyalode of Ibadanland will happen soon. A statement by the Personal Assistant and Director of Public Affairs to the palace, Mr. Adeola Oloko, said the monarch gave the assurance while welcoming chiefs from the Iyalode line who paid him a surprise visit at his Popoyemoja, Ibadan palace on Thursday. The chiefs visited to know when the new Iyalode would be installed. According to Oba Adetunji, there is no doubt that following the death of the former Iyalode, High Chief Aminat Abiodun, on December 8, 2018 and observation of the 41-days mandatory mourning period, the Otun Iyalode, Chief Mrs. Theresa Oyekanmi, is sure to be automatically installed as the new Iyalode of Ibadanland. He said: “Everybody knows that our chieftaincy system in Ibadan is based on promotion. Even, the Oyo State Governor, His Excellency, Senator Abiola Ajimobi has repeatedly said that, the beauty of Ibadan Chieftaincy System is that it is ordered, such that the most senior on the line is automatically qualified for the top job. “For example, on 27 April, 2016 when the wife of the President, Hajia Aisha Buhari paid me a courtesy visit in the palace, the Governor took pride in the orderly arrangement of our chieftaincy system.” The monarch also revealed that nobody in the Iyalode line or elsewhere has challenged the seniority of Chief (Mrs.) Oyekanmi or questioned her integrity and her state of mind, making her installation a fait accompli. Adetunji, however, pointed out the procedure for appointing Iyalode is similar to that of the Olubadan, adding that in consonance with the Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration of 1957, the kingmakers who are high chiefs, have been duly informed by the Secretary to the Olubadan-in-Council, stressing that there was some progress. “I have signed along with another High Chiefs and we are waiting for the other High Chiefs to sign also. “To speed it up, the vacancies that exist in the Balongun line notwithstanding the chieftaincy crisis had been added to it. “The next stage is to formally inform His Excellency, the Oyo State Governor. And, I’m proud to say that our Governor would expedite action on the matter when it gets to his table.” Responding, some chiefs in the Iyalode line commended the Olubadan for the peace and progress of Ibadanland during his reign. They expressed satisfaction that their fears had been allayed following the comprehensive explanation of the monarch, noting the Iyalode line is the tripod on which Ibadan chieftaincy system rests after Egbe Agba and Balogun lines In attendance at the meeting were Balogun Iyalode, Chief Mrs. Amudalat Adekunle; Osi Iyalode Chief Mrs. D. A Amao; Iyalaje Iyalode Chief Mrs. Olufunmilayo Soyege; Asipa Iyalode Chief Mrs. Yewande Durosaro; Ekerin Iyalode Chief Mrs. Onikepo Akande; Maye Iyalode Chief Mrs. Ayo Adunni Adegbite; Agbaakin Iyalode Chief Mrs. Kudirat Iyabo Adeleke and Aare Alaasa Iyalode Chief Mrs. Wosilat Ajoke Ekeolu. Others include Asaaju Iyalode Chief Mrs. Mutiat Ladoja; Lagunna Iyalode Olori Rashidat Adetunji; Oota Iyalode Chief Mrs. Titilola Ogbogodo Ayingun Iyalode, Chief Mrs. Mojisola Ladipo and Gbonnka Iyalode Chief Mrs. Jadesola Osho. 