The All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential campaign Council has said that while it is confident that President Muhammadu Buhari will emerge victorious at this weekend’s Presidential election, it also believe that the contest is not a do or die. Director, Field Operations of the Council, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu told newsmen that all those involved in the election should be aware that the contest is about Nigeria and should therefore not do anything that will undermine the interest of the country. Ribadu said: “The opposition party and those who we are contesting with, they should please understand it is not a do or die affair. It is about Nigerians. “Let Nigerians be the winner. If Nigerians are winners, then that is what politics is all about and that is what the future will look like. It is not about them or us, let Nigerians be the winners and the only way Nigerians can be the winner is if they play it fairly, honestly, justly, that is what is needed/required.” Ribadu assured that supporters and agents of APC would not be involved in criminal activities during the elections on Saturday, adding that the APC believes that Nigeria is more important than the party that wins the Saturday’s election. While saying that the APC was ready for the election, Ribadu said, “We would say we are prepared and we have worked hard. Twenty-four hours day and night we have been on this to prepare our supporters, particularly our volunteers and canvassers. We have over 300,000 of such people across the Country who has formally declared they are working for us. “We have given them all the necessary information they need to know that will help to sell our candidate very well and we have told them to do it peacefully in a way that we would have free and fair elections. They are ready and are all out there. We have sent a message across that we must conduct ourselves with all decorum, dignity with the APC/ PMB volunteers. “We have received very strong message from PMB and from everybody that no misbehavior will be tolerated. Our people will behave very well, our people will not be involved in any criminal activities, our people are going to conduct themselves according to the law and we believe that victory will be ours because we have prepared and worked hard. “I am very happy and excited with our level of preparedness towards the forthcoming exercise on Saturday. We only pray that we would be able to have it from all the players to adopt same attitude of free and fair election and let the winner emerge through a peaceful process.” On his trust on the Independent National Electoral Commission readiness, he said, “We hope that INEC is better prepared this time, we have witnessed what happened last weekend. We were all prepared and out then suddenly the got disappointed. We hope and pray that it is not going to happen again that they are fully prepared and everything is on ground for the elections on Saturday. “Also, the other players, the opposition party and those who we are contesting with, they should please understand it is not a do or die affair. It is about Nigerians. Let Nigerians be the winner, if Nigerians are winners then that is what politics is all about and that is what the future will look like. “It is not about them or us, let Nigerians be the winners and the only way Nigerians can be the winner is if they play it fairly, honestly, justly, that is what is needed/required. “My concern is that I hope they are also going to do exactly how we are doing, very well prepared, go to the field, convince the voters and let the vote count. Let Nigerians be winners in this matter.“