•Governor Yahaya Bello should embrace constitutionality in his dealings with the deputy governor Kogi State, known as the ‘Confluence State,’ is boiling again as the governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, and his deputy, Mr. Simon Achuba, are on the war path. Although the frosty relationship between the two men had been the subject of discussion in hushed tones around the Kogi State Government House, it all blew open on February 15, the eve of the botched presidential election. The deputy governor could no longer keep under wraps the ill-treatment he had received from the governor. He told a press conference that his security detail had been withdrawn by the governor’s aide de camp. He also disclosed that water and electricity supplies to his office and residence had been disconnected on the governor’s order. This is unfortunate as it shows that those who usually find themselves in office are unable to rise to the occasion. Pettiness and impunity reign supreme as leaders run affairs of the state or institutions under their care like emperors. Incidentally, Achuba who hails from Kogi East, is the older, more experienced and more mature of those in government. He was in the state house of assembly where he was deputy speaker, between 1999 and 2007. Under the Captain Idris Wada administration, he was a special adviser to the governor. He was thus selected as deputy governor following the shaky start to the Bello government to serve as a bridge between the old and the rich. This has not been so, as the deputy governor alleged he had been denied imprest and allowances due his office for months. The pettiness of leaders in the state came further to the fore when, last year, the deputy governor had to go on a two-month leave at a time the governor was also unavailable, thus suggesting something had gone amiss. Whatever might be at the root of the row, we call on both men to place the public interest above personal disagreements. They both derive their powers from the constitution and deserve reciprocal respect. Where other officials of state like the chief of staff and secretary to the state government are rated higher than the number two citizen, his authority is undermined, statutory powers are usurped and institutions weakened. The 1999 Constitution does not envisage a ‘ceremonial’ deputy governor as is the case, in a de facto sense, not only in Kogi but many other states. Neither are governors expected to live and act above the grundnorm that they swore to uphold. Both Alhaji Bello and Mr. Achuba should realise that, at the end of the administration, they will account to the people for their stewardship. While the governor’s ADC is in charge of security at the Government House, he is expected to act with decorum and deference to the deputy governor. It is rude to have invited the deputy governor’s aides ostensibly for a briefing only to be disarmed, slammed with gun-running allegation, withdrawn and locked up without recourse to their principal. This is rude and crude and should not be repeated. The governor is a young man who does not know where his political career would land him tomorrow. This is therefore the time to learn the tenets of democracy, rule of law, the due process and constitutionality. While the instant case appears to have been settled following the state police commissioner’s intervention, the police high command should school their men attached to political office holders to stay above the fray. They are political attaches, not political actors, and where some are observed to have stepped out of the defined line, they should be immediately withdrawn to protect the image of the force. Other states where constitutionalism is being threatened or subverted as a result of personal squabbles should take note and set things in order, realising that the state is bigger and more important than any individual.