With dwindling funding, access to grants is becoming more competitive.To solve the problem, Acceler hub has held a training for social entrepreneurs on how to write proposals for raising funds for their projects. DANIEL ESSIETreports. ACCESS to donors is becoming a challenge for social entrepreneurs and non-government organisations (NGOs). Thus, they are learning new ways of getting grants. It is against this background that a Lagos-based start-up empowerment organisation, Acceler hub, has  trained social entrepreneurs and NGOs on how to solicit funding. The training covered proposal writing and presentation, introducing participants to the various sections of funding proposals, including objectives and linking those to well-defined activities, as well as strategies for effective fund raising, showing participants the need to have a strategy for fund raising to meet their needs and ensure sustainability. Participants were taken through, among other things, the steps in fundraising; sources of income and fundraising plan. The guest speaker was Mr Blessing Mene. He is a serial social entrepreneur. His record includes  Bold Nutrition Company, and Unorthodox Feeds Innovation for Rural Enterprising Smallholder Farmers (UNFIRE). Mene set up UNFIRE to provide farmers with low-cost animal feeds, made from agricultural waste, such as mango seed kernels, elephant grass maize and cassava waste from milling plants. To enable him scale up production, Mene secured funds to increase production of insect protein as an alternative source to fish feed. He said he had benefited from  donors to pioneer sustainable feeds innovation for the livestock sector. What has helped him is his ability to write good proposals to investors on where and how to apply funds. Mene said social entrepreneurs need funds to start and sustain their initiatives. According to him, funding applications could be daunting. He added that mastering the skill is important. He explained that grant writing is also about telling stories, and that donors are moved by convincing stories in proposals. Mene said the biggest problem donors see when they read grant applications is that writers don’t follow the foundation’s guidelines. According to him,  training  on grant writing is critical to  helping applicants recognise what funders require  in proposals. Acceler hub founder Mrs Olanrewaju Oniyitan said the training was aimed at enlightning social entrepreneurs  on fundraising. According to her, social entrepreneurs and NGOs were facing challenges that hinder their ability to be effective advocates of social change. She attributed this to lack of funding.  She noted that while many organisations are struggling to survive, foreign donors are reducing their funding. She said donor priorities were shifting and some donors tend to make fewer grants. To enable organisations source funds, Mrs Oniyitan said  NGOs need the skills to present the most innovative, impactful and scalable proposals. She stressed that the hub organised the workshop to assist NGOs to improve their fundraisers and proposal writing skills. She noted that the hub was ready to strengthen NGOs with the required expertise to sustain their operations, increase their reach, and scale their impact. According to her, successful NGOs and social entrepreneurs research grants make applications frequently. She pointed out that rejection of grants was common and that a lot  of  organisations  never get funded, advising them never to  give up after the first no. She explained that grant writing is just like other types of fundraisers and is about relationships. Mrs Oniyitan said the hub is ready to advance the dreams of aspiring entrepreneurs through, building their basic business knowledge in addition to offering coaching, mentoring, and encouragement.