The APC accused the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of conniving to prevent Ekere from accessing venue of the ceremony. Its state chairman, Mr. Ini Okopido, alleged its governorship candidate, Obong Nsima Ekere was prevented from accessing and participating in the peace accord event by INEC officials and security details to Governor Udom Emmanuel. Okopido, in a statement, said: “On arrival at the entrance of the venue, Obong Ekere was stopped from entering the hall by the protocol and security officials and thugs of the Governor Udom Emmanuel, who had arrived earlier. “Obong Ekere’s entreaties to be let in to participate in the ceremony, including his explanations that he first had to attend a previously scheduled prayer summit for peaceful elections at the Methodist Church, Itiam Etoi, Uyo, were turned down by the government officials. Our candidate had to turn back.” He added: “I was present inside the hall and I saw clearly that the whole ceremony was turned into a state government event. The Master of Ceremony was Mr. Raphael Edem, the governor’s special assistant on Public Affairs, and yet this was supposed to be an INEC event for all Governorship Candidates. “The entrance was manned by the government’s protocol and security officials. “It must be emphasized that Mr. Udom Emmanuel attended the event as a governorship candidate of the PDP and not as Governor. “We, therefore, do not understand why government officials and thugs were allowed, if not encouraged, by INEC to harass another candidate. “This incident is most unfortunate and demonstrates once again our position that INEC in Akwa Ibom State should show impartiality to all candidates and maintain neutrality in its conduct”. But the PDP publicity secretary, Comrade Iniobong Ememobong, accused Ekere of breaking official protocol by sauntering in hours after the governor was already seated. “Today, at the signing of the Peace Accord organized by INEC, Ekere exhibited his consistent, habitual and unrepentant show of rascality by coming hours after the event had started and sought to stroll across the main aisle of the venue. “Of course by all protocol standards, he was advised to enter from the front door but use the middle aisle to his seat which was at the other end of the hall. “He resisted and insisted on swaggering pass the front. Protocol officers of INEC offered to take him to his seat but he left boasting that Igini must be removed. “Long before his arrival, his state chairman Ini Okopido had arrived and was seated on his designated seat. The INEC REC asked about the whereabouts of his candidate, to which he replied that he (Nsima) was coming, that he had other engagements. “All responsible Akwa Ibom Stakeholders including Obong Victor Attah attended the event in good time and participated effectively but APC and their candidate Nsima Ekere can never conform to normal etiquette.”