 After a 2018 that went pass producing what some described as below par performance and manageable result for Super Eagles and their female compatriots Super Falcons, things appear to be looking up this year with just one month gone. While the Eagles recorded a potpourri posting a poor run at the World cup in Russia but clinching ticket for AFCON 2019 in style, the Falcons clinched their 9th AWCON title in Ghana and a world cup ticket in France as icing on the cake. In spite of that the consensus remains that the quality of the Thomas Dennerby tutored team needs improvement. Both Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr and his Super Falcons counterpart Dennerby hope and expect that their players wherever they are should be busy playing regularly in readiness for the challenges ahead. Some players shortly after the world cup were bench warmers in their clubs and the coaches were hoping for a change of fortune.  Luckily things are looking up with players sealing new deals, an indication that the much needed playing time is perhaps guaranteed. Super Eagles captain John Obi Mikel after parting ways with Chinese Super league side Tianjin Teda successfully joined English Championship side Middlesbrough.  Victor Moses who was sidelined at the Stamford Bridge recently moved over to Turkish side Fenerbahce and even became an instant hit netting his first goal for the side after playing for just 26 minutes, an indication that he is probably set to explode for the side, after describing the club as “huge one with incredible fans and amazing history” Prior to that Ahmed Musa who was impressive in Russia despite Eagles poor run had a near rough ride before the World cup at Leicester City initially headed back to former club CSKA Moscow on a short stay and subsequently joined Saudi Arabian league side August 4th 2018 on a reported £14.5 million deal.  He has since grabbed five goals in nine appearances for the club. In the ladies department free style ace Rashindat Ajibade sealed a two year deal with Norwegian side Avaldsnes Idrettslag, just before the Falcons clinched the title in Ghana and only few days back three time African Women footballer of the year Assisat Oshoala whose performance at AWCON 2018 was considered below her best on a good day sealed a loan move from her Chinese Super league side Dalian Quanjian F.C to Spain where she pitched tent with Barcelona ladies. This for female football lovers is considered a good move that will further improve her game considering that Barcelona at all levels have proved to be a super force in the round leather game and playing for any of their teams is considered a big plus. There is no doubt that Rohr and Dennerby are happy with the gradually turn of events for some of their players especially as they face two major tournaments this year in which they are expected to do well. Rohr even if he has not been given a must win mandate for Egypt 2019, is expected to do very well as Nigeria is seen to be a big player at the Nations Cup and cannot afford to be at the fringes after missing out in two editions. Dennerby on his part is lucky to have clinched the usual AWCON title for which some say has become the birth right of Super Falcons, but he is expected to make a mark at the world cup in France and the only way he can achieve that is by taking the team beyond the quarterfinals, achieved 20 years ago in the United States. France 2019 will be the team’s 8th appearance at the world stage and six of those appearances had ended at the group stage. So when players move whether on permanent deal of temporary as we have witnessed recently, but have the opportunity of playing regularly, the coaches might regard it as a good omen or better still Season of harvest!