As February is marked globally as Safer Internet Month, the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) joins different nations and institutions to sensitize citizens on safer use of the internet. At a two-day workshop on “Together for a Better Internet for Peace and Economic Development”, organised by the NFVCB for youths in Benue State on February 11-12 at the Benue State University, Makurdi, Executive Director of agency, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas, advised Nigerian youths against sharing hate speeches, photos and inciting videos on social media platforms. The campaign becomes more pertinent as Nigeria moves closer to the general elections, slated for February 16, 2019 Thomas, who was speaking on ‘Safer Internet Month’, noted that, in the interest of national peace and unity, there was urgent need to caution young Nigerians against the dangers of generating and sharing fake news and provocative motion pictures, adding that crisis in some parts of the country were escalated by reactions to fake news, hate speeches and videos spread on the social media. Continuing, the NFVCB boss said: “It is no longer news that digital technology has taken over the world, therefore, we must urge our young people to shun the spreading of contents that are threats to national peace and co-existence. “This conference is borne out of the need for NFVCB, both as an industry and a decision maker to build the capacity of the youth who are mostly the users of the internet. “We want them to promote positive contents and avoid sharing hate speeches on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms, especially during and after the 2019 general elections. “We all have a responsibility to ensure that the internet is not used to promote what divide us, because our nation cannot develop in the absence of tolerance and unity,” he said. The event was attended by students, youths, civil society groups and university dons who were among the resource persons on the panel discussion: “Social Harm Caused by Film Content and Solution.” Prof. Saint Gbilekaa, a Don in the Department of Theatre Arts of the University of Abuja, called for the promotion of good values on the internet. Gbilekaa, who spoke on “Film and Internet Usage: The Need for Conflict Resolution and Economic Development”, urged Nigerian filmmakers to produce films that address societal ills and shape positive ideas. Also, Prof. John Illah of the Department of Theatre Arts, University of Jos, warned against spreading fake news and photo -shopped images. Illah, in his presentation, “Role of Film and Conflict Resolution and Anger Management”, noted that fake news and images were politically motivated to smear “political opponents, especially as the general elections approaches.” “Our youths should beware of spreading images and news they found on the internet, because many of them are political propaganda,” he said.