Deputy Governorship candidate for People Democratic Party in Lagos, Haleemat Busari has said that the active citizenship value of Junior Chamber International is what every Nigerian citizen should adopt towards attaining  global relevance as a nation. Busari said at the investiture ceremony of Victoria Island Chapter of Junior Chamber International where a new president for the Chapter was sworn in. She said that adopting the value will allow people to get involved in the development of their local environments up to the state and national levels. Busari who also mentioned that she was a member of the organisation when she was in school said  that the JCI’s Active Citizen ideal is a value that can be used to running sustainable, needs-based projects that create measurable results in communities. “Active citizenship can be as small as a campaign to clean up your street or as big as educating young people about democratic values, skills and participation”, she said. Also speaking during the investiture program, Chief Executive Office, Eximia Realtor Co. Limited, Hakeem Oguniran urged business owners and members of the organisation to always find new ways of doing things to give room for innovation and advancement in whatsoever endeavour they find themselves in life. Oguniran who spoke on the topic “Leadership and Business” said that business owners all around the world are facing challenging time in their businesses, a sign that shows that nations are being crippled with economic recession. He said that business owners must triple their efforts and be consistent if they want to live above their daily business challenges. “You need to have gut to survive in an environment like this because it is tough to do business in Nigeria, but in it all you must keep your head up”, he said. In her inaugural speech, the Chapter President of the organisation, Olamipo Adeola promised that she will never back down in the fight to make the country and world at large a better place. “I declare to you today, that we, as an organization will awaken the consciousness of the  youth’s responsibilities to Nigeria  and the part we must play to accelerate our growth towards greatness” She pointed that JCI as an organisation has trained the members to go beyond just speaking but proffering and making the changes we want to see in society. “Famous authors have proclaimed that the change you want to see starts from you and at JCI we operate on this unambiguous phrase”, she quoted. 