The Lagos State Police Command says it has arrested two suspected kidnappers while planning to kidnap their boss, one Solomon Otungo, an oil and gas merchant. The Commissioner of Police in Lagos, CP Zubairu Muazu confirmed the arrest to newsmen on Thursday at the command’s headquarters. He said that the suspects were arrested based on intelligence report. “It is based on credible intelligence report received that some newly employed staff of one Solomon Otungo, an oil and gas merchant of Bucknor area of Ejigbo, Lagos, were holding nocturnal meeting on how they would kidnap and keep their employer incommunicado until a ransom of N60 million was paid that they were arrested. “The Divisional Police Officer in charge of Ejigbo Police Station, CSP Okuwobi Olabisi, swiftly mobilized police detectives and stormed the venue of the meeting where two of the employees were promptly rounded up and brought to the station. “The confessional statements of the suspects, led to the arrest of one other suspect at Isolo area of Lagos State. “The suspects in unison, have confessed to the crime. They added that had their plan pulled through, they would have demanded a N60 million ransom from the business man. “Suspects will be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation,” he said. In a similar development, on Tuesday, Feb. 19, about 1a.m, the Divisional Police Officer, Sabo Division, said he received a distress call that some hoodlums were burgling a store at No.11 Oweh Street, Jibowu.
According to the CP, the officer led a team of policemen to confront the hoodlums. “On getting close to the scene, they sighted a mercury villager Space Wagon, with Reg. No. PG 393 AAA parked in front of the store. “However, the hoodlums, on seeing the approaching police team, sped off, driving against traffic in their desperation to evade arrest. “They were, however, given a hot chase by the police operatives. “As a result, the occupants of the bus started firing at the team. The policemen fired back at them and in the process, the bus stopped abruptly, falling into a ditch. “Some of the robbers escaped with bullet wounds but one of them who sustained bullet injury on the right leg was found with three big sacks containing different sizes of shoes, bags, clothes and other items. “He was arrested and taken to the station. During interrogation, he gave his name as Paul Ozurumba of No.6 Igbobi Sabe Street, Jibowu, Yaba. “A search warrant was executed in his house and the following items, ranging from refrigerators, pharmaceutical drugs, bale of underwear, televisions and other property suspected to have been stolen were recovered from him. “Meanwhile, two other members of his gang, namely, Stanley Sungalome and Michael Agbunwor, have been arrested and they confessed to have committed the crime,” Muazu said. (NAN)