•‘Elections will hold in Madagali, despite Boko Haram attack’ Boko Haram insurgents have killed three persons in attacks on three communities in Madagali Local Government Area of Adamawa State on Monday night. They reportedly dislodged policemen on routine duty and wreaked havoc on the town. A security officer, who spoke in confidence last night, said the insurgents killed three people, destroyed 20 shops and three cars and stole valuables. The security officer named the affected communities as Shuwa, Kirshingari and Shuari. This latest attack confirmed fears over the security situation in Madagali, the only local government area in Adamawa State where the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said voting would take place among the three communities, including Shuwa. Residents said the insurgents, who arrived in several vehicles about 7 p.m on Monday, took over Madagali until soldiers from Gulak and Michika engaged them in a battle that lasted about two hours. The Commander of 28 Task Force Battalion in Mubi, Lt.-Col. Haruna said the insurgents had been repelled. Police spokesman Othman Abubakar, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), assured the residents that a combined team of security agencies brought the situation under control. Madagali is one of the seven local government areas of Adamawa State that Boko Haram once seized. Also, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said elections will hold in Madagali Local Government Area of Adamawa State, despite Monday’s attack by Boko Haram insurgents on three communities in the local government. Military and police spokesmen confirmed the attack yesterday. An unofficial police intelligence source said three people were killed by the insurgents, who the source said also destroyed 20 shops and stole valuables from the residents. The latest attack on Madagali raised doubt about the conduct of the forthcoming elections which INEC said would take place in only three communities in the local government, following security advice. In its latest policy statement on the development, INEC said it would not be deterred by Monday night’s attack from conducting elections in the area. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Kasim Gaidam said: “INEC and the good people of Madagali and the entire Adamawa State have resolved to ensure election is conducted in Madagali. No amount of threats, intimidation and sabotage would stop INEC from conducting the elections.”   