The recent alarm on rising global incidence of cancer by the World Health Organisation (WHO) should worry African countries, especially Nigeria, where the disease is most prevalent. According to WHO, about 10,000 cancer deaths are recorded annually while 250,000 new cases are recorded yearly in Nigeria owing to the shortage of functional cancer control plans. There are different kinds of cancers that affect different parts of the body and they have varying root causes. While not all cancers can be prevented, living a healthy lifestyle may help to avoid it. You make choices every day that affect your health, follow our Ten Preventive Methods of Cancer to reduce your risk. 1. Stop using tobacco products  Smoking or chewing tobacco are leading causes of several different types of cancer including lung, colorectal, breast, throat, cervical, bladder, mouth and esophageal. It’s never too late to quit if you have started smoking. If you don’t smoke, stay away from second-hand smoke. 2. Avoid potentially carcinogenic personal hygiene products  Many cosmetic products contain ingredients that could weaken your immune system, thus, increasing the risk of cancer. Some of these products includes – Talcum powder, antiperspirants and deodorants.  3. Conduct self-exams monthly Check for skin cancer by examining the skin over your entire body. Look for changes in appearance, especially around moles. For a breast examination, use your fingers to feel your breast to look for lumps and for a testicular examination, look for changes in your testicles. It is advisable to check for signs in the breast after a week of your menstrual period.  4. Maintain a healthy weight Obesity is a common risk factor for cancer. Consult your doctor or use a Body Mass Index (BMI) chart to determine an appropriate weight for your height, age, and body type.  • You can maintain your weight by eating a healthy, balanced diet and exercising daily. • If you’re struggling to lose weight, you might work with a licensed dietitian to create a diet plan that will work for you. Additionally, you can hire a trainer to help you build a fitness plan that you enjoy. 5. Avoid exposure to known carcinogens in your environment
You can check lists of carcinogens maintained by The National Toxicology Program, the International Agency for Research on Cancer, and the Environmental Protection Agency. You can also check the American Cancer Society’s website. Drinking unsafe water or breathing polluted air can also put you at greater risk of developing cancer and other health problems. Check air and water conditions in your area and take health precautions (such as drinking bottled water or wearing a mask) if necessary. 6. Ask your doctor about the hepatitis B and HPV vaccines
Hepatitis B can contribute to liver cancer, and HPV may cause cervical or other genital cancers. Fortunately, you can get vaccinated against these illnesses.  • The hepatitis B vaccine is recommended for people who are at high risk for hepatitis B. This includes people who are sexually active with multiple partners, people who have STDs, men who have sex with men, health workers who may contract the illness, and intravenous drug users. • The HPV vaccine is recommended for girls and boys between the ages of 11 and 12, but it can be administered until age 26. 7. Minimize your cell phone use
It is possible that radio frequency fields from cell phones can increase your risk of brain cancer and other types of cancer.
You can minimize this potential risk by keeping your calls short to no more than 30 minutes per day and using your phone only when you really need it.  You could also – • Try to limit direct ear-to-phone contact to no more than 30 minutes per day. You can also limit contact between your phone and other parts of your body by keeping it in a bag instead of in your pocket. • If you need to make a long phone call, minimize direct contact with your phone by turning on the speaker or using a headset. 8. Avoid sharing needles
STDs also spread through sharing needles, as the illness is present in bodily fluids. For example, you can get HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C by sharing needles. Don’t ever reuse needles or use someone else’s needle.  9. Protect your skin from sun exposure
Spending a small amount of time in the sun, such as 15 minutes a day, can be healthy for you because it helps your body make vitamin D. However, too much sun can damage your skin and even lead to skin cancer. You can prevent skin cancer by always wearing a sunscreen with at least SPF 30, covering your body with clothing, and staying in the shade.  It’s best to avoid the sun during the hottest part of the day, which is between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 10. Practice safe sex and avoid risky behaviours Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) can weaken the immune system and contribute greatly to cancer. You can avoid STDs by always using a condom when you have sex. Since condoms can fail, discuss sexual health with your potential partners and get tested regularly.  Sources: WikiHow