For the Ijaw Nation, the Bayelsa International Airport at Ammasoma is a big deal. They trooped out for the inaugural flight to the airport from Lagos. As the plane landed at about 3pm, they burst into singing and dancing. Beyond the fanfare is the unending debate of the viability of states’ airports. But Governor Seriake Dickson believes the airport has the potential of turning around his state’s economy. KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. Construction of airports by state governments is becoming the fad in Nigeria’s attempt at modernising its air transportation landscape. However, this drive has not been without attendant controversies, which  have dogged such projects in states where they are built. State governments that have constructed airports include: Akwa Ibom; Delta; Kebbi; Jigawa; Bauchi; Taraba and now, Bayelsa, which opened its terminal in Ammassoma, the heartland of Ijaw land last week. The Bayelsa International Airport was delivered 23 years after the state was created. To many, it is long overdue, given the  hitches associated with flying in and out of the oil rich state. Besides the cost of building such facilities, airports are critical as air transportation infrastructure continue to serve as catalysts to economic development; creates windows to attract investors; manufacturers; tourists and other players into the communities where they are located. According to International Air Transport Association (IATA), airports as components of the aviation value chain enable free movement of people and goods around the globe. IATA’s statistics revealed that the  global airline industry transported over four billion passengers and over 60million tonnes of cargo through airports. To underscore airports’ relevance, IATA said the aviation sector as one of the biggest drivers of global economy supports nearly 63 million jobs in addition to creating over $2.7 trillion to the gross domestic product (GDP) of countries across the globe. IATA’s Chief Executive Officer and Director-General, Alexander De Juniac, said airports  in particular have long been recognised as key contributors to the region they are positioned, supporting a flurry of direct and indirect jobs, including tourism, trade and business. He said: ”From delivering life-saving medicine to your family member to bringing the performers at an awe-inspiring concert, aviation helps people live better lives and is a catalyst for prosperity. It plays a unique role in connecting business to markets, uniting family and friends, discovering new cultures and lands, bringing people together to solve problems as well as building understanding and developing global insights. “Airports as component of that value chain , besides  creating  jobs and revenue, serves as a window to stimulate manufacturing, tourism and allied activities. “From island nations to landlocked regions and everywhere in between, air connectivity opens the doors to tourism, business, cultural exchange and a host of other opportunities. As a link to the world and its markets, efficient aviation infrastructure is vital for a successfully economy.” Building an airport in Bayelsa State 23 years after the state was created and efforts at delivering it were fraught with hitches. According to Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa, previous administrations spoke of plans to build an airport in the state, but the project could not see the light of day, adding that a few years ago the state set up a committee to drive the project. The desire to build an airport in the state according to Dickson, came on the heels of Federal Government’s failure to keep its promise of delivering an airport, which it said would be handled by the China Civil Engineering Construction Company  (CCECC). The governor said after waiting in vain for the contractor to deliver the terminal, it became evident that the state had to act swiftly by awarding the construction to a reputable firm. According to the governor, within a few years a world class facility was delivered, resulting in flight operations by a local airline, Air Peace, into the airport last week. Governor Dickson described the airport as one of the best in the country, noting that it would serve as a free trade zone not only for the Niger Delta, but for the Gulf of Guinea, adding that the airport was executed in fulfillment of his promise of bringing the world to Bayelsa and vice versa. “We conceived this airport the very first time we took office and in my inaugural address, I said we were not going to play politics with the development of the state and Ijaw national interest. This is what I had in mind. This airport has a 3.5 kilometres runway, there is no airplane that cannot land here, whatever we are doing, we are not doing it just for the moment, we are doing it for the future,” Dickson  said. He continued:  “This project that you see has not cost us more than N60billion. What you see here is of international standard. There is no Federal Government’s contribution to the airport. The Federal Government said they were going to sand-fill, but they did not do it. They said they would construct the terminal building, we waited and waited, they didn’t build it. In January last year, we had to award the contract for the construction of the terminal building.” Congratulating the people of the state on the great achievement, he berated the Federal Government for reneging on its promise to construct the terminal building. He also took a swipe at critics of the project, particularly the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri for “spreading falsehood” about the project. The governor, who put the cost of the airport project at about N60 billion, expressed gratitude to the contractor, Dantata and Sawoe and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, (FAAN) for building the airport to meet international standards. He added that the project was built without any input from the Federal Government or the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The airport, he said, was built to improve the economy of the state, adding that it would soon be fully inaugurated for both local and international flights. He debunked the report that the state spent between N120billion and N150 billion on the project, saying it was not true. He added that the facility would be able to accommodate big aircraft like the Boeing B777 and B747.  Air Peace involvement in the project To drive commercial activities at the airport, Bayelsa State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU) with Air Peace to provide flight services into the airport. Speaking at the commencement of flights into the airport, the  airline’s Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mrs Oluwatoyin  Olajide described the airport as a new dawn for the people of Bayelsa State, adding that the airport would be a vehicle for the industrial and economic development of the state. “Air Peace is an airline of many firsts. We are indeed, honoured and delighted to make another history as the first commercial airline to operate into the Bayelsa Airport. We commend Governor Dickson for this great project aimed at opening Bayelsa up for rapid industrial and economic development. “Since we commenced commercial flight over four years ago, Air Peace has greatly contributed to the development of cities and states we operate into. We have no doubt that the Bayelsa International Airport will provide us an opportunity to support the efforts of Bayelsa government to develop the state. It is indeed a new dawn for the people and residents of Bayelsa,” she said. She, therefore, urged the flying public and the business community to take advantage of the wonderful facility to break new grounds for their businesses and leisure interests. Chairman of the state Traditional Rulers’ Council, King Alfred Diete Spiff, said the terminal has prepared the ground for indigenes of Bayelsa to grow agricultural produce in commercial quantity for export. In his goodwill message,  King Diette Spiff expressed delight over the project, noting that the airport  would promote tourism, export and industrial development. He said the indigenes can now earn foreign exchange by exporting produce to anywhere in the world.  Other stakeholders comment Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworisoma, said the airport would create over 2,000 direct and indirect jobs for indigenes of the state. He described the airport as a Valentine’s Day gift to the people of Bayelsa State, stressing that the airport was built strictly for business, especially the oil and gas industry and without any political undertone. “We must put politics aside for us to have development. This is the first airport in Bayelsa State to help develop the economy. This airport will serve as a hub for the petroleum industry, but we want to also look away from oil and gas and look at other revenue sources. So, this is a legacy project,” he said. The Senator representing Bayelsa East, Ben Bruce, also said the airport would ease movement for indigenes of the state and boost trade and commerce.  Aviation authorities’ verdict Representative of the Managing Director of the FAAN, Mr. Clifford Omozeghian, said the body had already deployed critical personnel to man aviation security, the fire-fighting equipment and rescue operations at the facility. The Airport Manager, Mrs Elizabeth Daitere, said the airport would operate day time flights for now, adding that all safety infrastructure was in place for commercial and cargo flight operations. She said commercial flight operations would soon commence for Bayelsa-Lagos-Bayelsa and Bayelsa-Abuja.  