The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has listed capital requirement for insurance practice, establishment and implementation of effective risk     management and full implementation of risk based capital and supervision as areas of focus for the commission  this year. Other areas, according to the commission, include monitoring of asset and liability management practices; enforcement of code of corporate governance; sustained surveillance on operators activities, especially those with issues of regulatory concern; attention to financial reporting practices by holding board and external auditors responsible; and preparing for implementation of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 and IFRS 17. NAICOM’s Deputy Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, who made this known while presenting a paper: “The Role of the Regulator in Shaping Insurance Industry Performance in 2019”,  at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) 2019 Business Outlook in Lagos, said optimal development of the insurance market would be to facilitate financial inclusion initiatives and promote policy to facilitate public access to insurance services nationwide. It will also enforce compulsory insurances. The key areas of regulatory concerns in the sector, he said, are corporate governance failure; inadequacy and poor quality of capital and asset structure; delays in the settlement of reported insurance claims and reduction in the market capacity to underwrite special risks. He said they are also concerned about the inadequate risk assessment and pricing among insurance operators, inadequate deployment of technology in the industry; insufficient support to market development initiatives; challenges in financial reporting practices and deficiency in human capital needs. Concerning some of the commission’s regulatory initiatives, he said an enhanced micro-insurance guidelines were released in January 2018, with the licensing of two applicants as stand-alone micro-insurers  almost ready for release. He said: “The commission has also granted licence to two stand-alone Takaful Insurance companies and three companies with window operation trading in 22 approved products; signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Bancassurance to increase access to insurance products. Companies granted approval are being monitored while pending applications are under processing. “We have collaborated with the insurance underwriting companies for the rebranding campaign geared towards restoring trust and confidence  of the public in the insurance sector of the economy;  restructured the Commission’s Complaint Bureau for effective response to consumers’ complaints; created the platform for knowledge acquisition on Index Based Agricultural Insurance (IBAI) through collaboration  with NISRAL -Approval granted to five insurance companies to participate in the IBAI pilot scheme. “We also collaborated with international and national bodies in developing insurance sector’s capacity on Index Based Agricultural Insurance; and collaborated with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Nigeria Oil & Gas industry content development Act 2010, by making it compulsory for all companies operating in the sector to insure assets first with local insurers before seeking permission from the body to insure with a foreign firm.” Thomas pointed out that the aftermath of the financial crisis saw a globally coordinated response that resulted into series of new regulations across major financial sectors, for a more robust and stable financial system. “Tougher, more detailed and more complex standards now apply to all aspects of regulation,” he noted. He continued: “Regulators across sectors remain highly vigilant to the risks of economic downturn and market shocks. The global business environment is changing and the changes will necessitate regulatory refocusing in 2019. Jurisdictions are increasing business protection against money laundering and financing terrorism. “There are rising supervisory expectations, reflecting the growth of principle-based supervisory approaches that emphasise the importance of governance, culture and management approach, and the outcomes. A sound regulatory and supervisory system is panacea for maintaining a fair, safe and stable sector for the benefit and protection of the interests of policy holders; and effective insurance regulation supports economic growth.”,  