….as Southern Kaduna youths endorse El-Rufai  The national body of Buhari Mass Movement has promised to deliver 45 million votes for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari on February 16 out of the total votes declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The final registered voters as declared by INEC for the 2019 general election stands at 84, 004,084 registered voters. This was even as southern Kaduna youths forum have endorsed governor Nasir El-rufai for the March 2nd governorship election. Speaking on Monday at one day sensitization workshop in Kaduna for grassroots mobilizers/canvassers for the projected 45 million votes, the national Coordinator of the Movement, Basheer Garba Umar urged all registered members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to ensure that they exercise their civic responsibility on the D-day. Umar noted that it is risky to lazy about canvassing for votes for Buhari because the total figures of voters in 2015 is far less than in 2019, and urged every member of the party to work hard for victory. “We must canvass for votes from local government to local government, house to house, door to door, market to market, and all places that we may find people. “If we must gather 45 million votes for President Buhari, there is no going back from campaigning door to door because in 2015 the total registered voters was around 60 million, but this year we are having over 84 million registered voters. “But our worry is that people have registered, and they don’t want to go out on election day to vote. “However, we have sensitised all the canvassers to go to all local government areas in the country, house to house to tell those who may not be willing to vote on that day to go out enmass to vote for Buhari”. Meanwhile, youths under the umbrella of Southern Kaduna Youth Forum have endorsed the governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the State, Governor Nasir El-rufai for the forthcoming election. The youths took the decision to support El-rufai after due deliberations in a meeting they held in Kagarko local government Area of the State at the weekend. Addressing journalists shortly after the meeting, the APC Director, Youth Mobilization for Buhari/El-rufai 2019, Malam Aminu Anty noted that governor El-rufai is a man of integrity who is sincerely determined to take Kaduna State to the next level of developments. He also pointed out that the governor’s achievements in healthcare centres; education sector, water supply, agricultural activities as well as youth empowerment are some of the factors that prompted them to drum support for the APC candidate. Mallam Anty said, “These and many other factors too numerous to mention propelled us to take this resolution to appreciate and push for the governor’s second term bid. “The good aspect of this resolution does not lie only on the support, but it also helps in reshaping the political norm of supporting leaders based on their ability and good track records of performance. “We have come to the realisation that the era of playing politics with the future of the youths is over, and we also believe that no politician can deceive electorate any longer based sentiments. “To this end, we have adequately sensitised and made contacts with political stakeholders, youth and women groups from that zone to support Governor Nasir El-rufai for the second term”.