The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), MainOne, Funke Opeke, has advised businesses to adopt new technologies to avoid falling behind the rest of the world in technological advancement and early extinction. Speaking during the firm’s annual tech conference tagged ‘Nerds Unite,’ in Lagos with the theme: Accelerating Digital Transformation, she said a digitally connected country will speed up economic growth and transformation. “A connected Nigeria is a more economically prosperous Nigeria; it is a better educated Nigeria; it is a Nigeria where access to social services and health services are able to reach more of our population, which in itself adds to more prosperity for Nigeria,” she said. She added that the opportunity to use technology to drive economic development is the vision the firm has for a “connected Nigeria.” The forum hosted mid-level and top level information technology (IT) executives, start-up innovators and IT enthusiasts, who discussed emerging trends in the IT industry and how they affect Nigeria and Africa. The event featured IT specialist including Toby Shapshak, ICT journalist and thought leader, Libby Barr; Chief Operating Officer, Avanti Communications, Obinna Ekezie; CEO, Wakanow, Ife Oyedele; CEO, Kobo 360, Deji Balogun; and CTO, Terragon Group among others. At the event, IT experts discussed the importance of applying technology to every facet of life in line with digital transformation agenda of the Federal Government. The keynote speaker at the event, Shapshak, highlighted reasons why a connected Africa is way to move the continent forward. He said the peculiar situation of Africa and why it is important for Africa to utilise her strength, innovate and catch up with the rest of the world. During a panel discussion on: How Artificial Intelligence (AI) can Revolutionise your Business Model and Create New Revenue Streams,’ Chief Transformation Officer at MTN Nigeria, Bayo Adekanbi, said there is more to gain from AI than there is to lose, and that man would have to adapt to leverage these gains. A third session focused on cloud technology and cyber security. It was chaired by Ms Opeke and the panelists included Niyi Ajao from NIBSS and Adedayo Adesanya, Lead Consultant at Virtual Nigeria. The panelists lamented the challenges involved in cloud technology and cybersecurity especially IT illiteracy, with attention drawn to: “When it rains, what happens to my data in the cloud?” But they agreed that cloud adoption is on the increase and emphasised the role of partnerships among global players and local cloud providers with issues such as latency and lack of government support affecting -growth.