Osun State College of Technology (OSCOTECH), Esa-Oke, is seeking the nod of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) for its 16 programmes. The programmes cut across four schools: Engineering, Business and Management Sciences, Pure and Applied Sciences, and Environmental Studies. The fresh courses at both national and higher diplomas include Taxation, Marketing, Public Administration, Environmental Biology, Microbiology/Biology, Biochemistry, Agricultural Technology, Multimedia Technology, Office Technology and Management, Library and Information Science, Agric Bio-Environmental Engineering, Water Resources Engineering, Computer Engineering, Welding and Fabrication Engineering, Arts and Design and Photographic Technology. Addressing the NBTE resource accreditation team on the college campus, the institution’s Rector, Dr. Samson Adegoke, said the programmes are being presented for accreditation to meet NBTE’s standard. He disclosed that the reason for introducing the new programmes was to key into the diversification policy of the Federal Government,  designed to move away from  “undue reliance on crude oil”. Adegoke said with the new programmes, OSCOTECH would be able to equip youths with  job-creating skills. He expressed gratitude to the present and immediate past administrations for supporting the institution to meet its mandate. Adegoke said despite the paucity of funds occasioned by the dwindling prices of crude oil in the world market, the college is “striving hard to meet up with all the requirements of NBTE in providing standard infrastructure that are essential for the accreditation of our programmes and effective teaching of our students”. “In line with the guidelines by the NBTE, I am happy to inform you that our Entrepreneurship and Vocational Centre, which started in 2012, is highly functional,” Adegoke said. He added: “We have been training students in different vocations since its inception. We have competent resource professionals that are readily available to teach our students. “Reports from those who have graduated lay credence to the importance of the scheme because most of them before being gainfully employed have been fending for themselves with the vocation learnt through the centre.”