•Organisers and security agencies should pay more attention to crowd control CAMPAIGN rallies attended by large numbers of party supporters have always been a prominent feature of election seasons in Nigeria, just as is the case in all liberal democracies. Apart from providing a forum for parties and candidates to propagate their promises and plans to the public, as well as address issues they believe to be of interest to their audiences, campaign rallies also serve a critical psychological purpose for politicians. Political parties, rightly or wrongly, use the size of crowds at their rallies to gauge and project the extent of the support they enjoy in given constituencies. But the high number of avoidable deaths at various campaign rallies in the run-up to this year’s elections is most disturbing and all stakeholders, including political party leaders, party members and security agencies should take urgent steps to avoid future occurrences. This is particularly so as there will most likely be a flurry of campaign rallies across the country, as parties and candidates seek to optimally mobilise support for the March 9 governorship and House of Assembly elections in the states. One major cause of deaths at rallies during this campaign season has been overcrowding at venues. Nineteen people died at the Adokie Amesiamaka Stadium in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, last week, during the presidential campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) when a stampede occurred at the end of the event. Overcrowding was also the cause of deaths when another eight APC members lost their lives at a campaign rally at the Jolly Nyame Stadium, Jalingo, Taraba State. This suggests that organisers of rallies need to be more mindful of the relationship between the size of the crowd being mobilised to attend and that of the venues. Parties in tandem with security agencies must also work out more efficient and effective crowd management and control strategies. Violent clashes between rival party groups at rallies have also been responsible for a number of deaths and serious injuries. The bloody confrontation between feuding factions of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), for instance, marred the flag-off of the Lagos State APC governorship campaign rally in Ikeja on January 8. Also, three persons were reported to have died when rival groups of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) clashed outside the Sani Abacha Stadium in Kano during the party’s presidential rally. No less disturbing was the violence that occurred during the APC presidential primary at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, last week. The onus is on security agencies to adequately secure venues of rallies, particularly by disallowing party supporters from carrying weapons or dangerous objects into such places. The prompt apprehension and arraignment before the law, of perpetrators of political violence will also be a disincentive for such behaviour. Another cause of deaths witnessed at rallies pursuant to this year’s elections are auto crashes involving members travelling to attend political rallies. For instance, six APC supporters lost their lives last month when the vehicle conveying them to Dutse, the Jigawa State capital, for a rally had an accident. In a similar vein, about five persons died, 14 critically injured and 49 sustained minor injuries in an auto crash when 83 members of the PDP were travelling for a rally in Sokoto State. It is important that parties organise their rallies in such a way that their supporters do not have to travel long distances to attend. The less centralised party rallies are, therefore, the more unnecessary it will be for party supporters to travel long distances, thereby reducing the possibility of road accidents. Party leaderships at various levels will also have to work closely with their members as well as security agencies to address issues of excessive consumption of alcohol and other intoxicants by some exuberant party members during rallies, which may contribute to road accidents and other avoidable tragedies before and after the event.