All Progressives Congress (APC) House of Representatives candidate Mr. Ganiu Johnson has said the less privileged and physically challenged will get adequate attention, if elected. Johnson, who wants to represent Oshodi/Isolo Federal Constituency, spoke at the empowerment programme for widows. He urged the people to vote the party’s candidates across board. He said it had reached a critical stage, where the welfare of the less privileged should take a prominent position. He said that was the way a government can prove to be responsible. Johnson said an enhanced welfare package would go a long way to reduced the inequality, stressing that he is committed to making life better for the people. He said: ‘’Our party is a progressive party, we will continue to explore positive avenues to make life better for the people. I have outlined many life enhancing programmes for the people in the past and this will continue. “In this case, we are giving to the widows, who suffered because of the position they found themselves. The items they are getting will not stop after the election because it is our duty to make life good for them.” He urged them to come out to vote during election, stressing the people were the power they count on. “Your vote is your power, do not sell your vote. Use it to make your life better just like other people do.” Johnson maintained that the APC programme anchored on security, economy and anti corruption were package the people could not resist. He said President Muhammadu Buhari has set a clear direction for the country. He said APC has make life better for the people, adding that failure to re-elect the President would be counter-productive. “The damage done by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has really been difficult to erase. But the APC had made sure the people do not suffer unduly because of bad governance done by the last administration. “The only way we can ensure the bad memory is erased is to prevent the PDP from coming back again. They plundered our common patrimony and now they are scheming to come back, this to me is a taboo.”  