Some aides of Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade have taken their campaign for votes for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to some flash-points in Calabar metropolis. Mr Oscar Ofuka, spokesperson for the group, said on Wednesday in Calabar that they took the campaign to the designated areas to ensure that the people voted massively for the party on Feb. 16 and March 2. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Cocoa Development listed the areas as Atekong Junction; MCC Mobile Junction and Area II Junction where they advertised Atiku Abubakar’s programmes. The special adviser said the campaign train presented the achievements of Ayade since 2015 to the people. Ofuka listed the aidest to include Gilbert Agbor, Senior Special Assistant on External Investment; Mr M.C. Oluga, Cross River State Infrastructure Development Agency; Mr Ndoma Akpe, and Mr Emmanuel Jerry, Director, Petrol Cross. “We decided to take the campaign to the people in the busy areas. This is because many of them may not be interested in leaving their businesses or comfort zones to attend party campaigns. “So we decided to take it to them so that they can make informed decisions during the elections. “We are not going to end it here, we are going ahead to do same in all the hotbeds in the 18 local government areas of the state,” he said. He said a lot of people were being misinformed about the performance of the governor, adding that it was such wrong impressions that they were out to correct. “A lot of wrong information is being peddled about the performance of the governor and his administration. “However, we want to draw people’s attention through this process for them to know that government has done much in spite of the lean resources available to the state,”’ he said. Oscar expressed confidence that with the numerous achievements of the governor, the people of Cross River would return Ayade for a second term. “I think he deserves a second term; he has done very well and still will do more. He has the passion to serve the state and the people,” he said.