Aboard a Rwandair Airline, the International Cricket Council (ICC) World Cup Trophy will today lands in Nigeria for its three-day tour of one of four African countries among the 21 nations that will host the coveted trophy. In the last three days, the trophy has toured Rwanda and from Kigali, the trophy will arrive Abuja by noon in its tour of five continents, 21 countries and over 60 cities to mark the “most connected Trophy Tour ever” leading up to the 2019 ICC World Cup finals tournament from May 30 to July 14 in Wales and England, the United Kingdom. According to the Secretary General of the Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF), Taiwo Oriss, the Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung would receive the trophy on behalf of President Muhammad Buhari at the formal presentation of the trophy to the diplomatic community and cricket enthusiasts. In an itinerary of the trophy made available by NCF at the weekend, the trophy would be hosted in Abuja and Lagos while in Abuja, it will be received by Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung,  and visit some iconic places like the Shehu Musa Yar’ adua cultural center and the Katampe hills. In Lagos, it will be received by Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode and also be displayed at the Tafawa Balewa Cricket Oval on Lagos Island. “The tour of the World Cup Trophy is presently the biggest activity in the game of cricket, the world over, and Nigeria has been placed on that map by sheer effort of the dedicated people that make up the leadership of the Nigeria Cricket Federation. This is the first time the World Cup Trophy is coming to this part of Africa. It is indeed an honour.” Uyi Akpata, the NCF Vice President said. “We have a lot people in the cricket community that have been yearning to have a taste of World Cup Trophy and we are working out a very fair ground that would be inclusive for all the groups represented in our diverse community in Nigeria, both students, diplomatic community, professionals, enthusiast and sports fans”, he added. The trophy began its journey from the ICC headquarters in Dubai on August 27, 2018 and it would depart Nigeria on February 13, 2019.