•CBN’s directive to banks to lend more to the productive sector is the way to go The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) just let fly a bitter truth: Nigerian banks should stop being glorified parasites on public sector funds, but lend more to the productive sectors of the economy. Speaking at the CBN Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), Edward Lamatek, CBN deputy governor, told the banks to rein in their investment in government securities (Federal Government of Nigeria Bonds and treasury bills) and oil assets; and re-balance their portfolios in favour of emerging opportunities in agriculture, manufacturing and services. “The last couple of months have witnessed a sustained improvement in banking sector resilience – industry capital adequacy and liquidity ratios have grown, while the non-performing loans (NPL) ratio is on the decline.”  As a corollary, he called on the banks to “moderate their appetite for government securities and oil and gas assets, in order to gradually re-balance their asset portfolios.” The CBN’s directive is only logical. If money chases opportunities to work for the depositor, then it makes eminent sense that banks should be on the look-out for fresh opportunities and new areas of play; instead of getting fixated on government securities (because it is relatively safe) and oil and gas (which though commands a sizeable chunk of the market, appears rather saturated). Still, why would banks, with a 125-year industrial experience, be getting this rather trite tutorial from CBN, when they ought to be masters of their turf, that can sniff out profitable opportunities, even with a half nostril? It would appear the rather distorted structure of the economy, in which banks are zeroed to servicing imports, since there had been little or no vibrancy in the local real economy. The sad reality has conditioned banks to mostly short-tenured portfolios, mostly ranging from three to nine months. With such short tenures, banks are not positioned to cater for the local real sector. It is good the CBN is referencing its latest directive on the ongoing diversification of the economy, with renewed activism in agriculture, mining, manufacturing and, of course, services.  These are exciting prospects; and the banks themselves would be quite upbeat about more diversified and yet profitable portfolios. However, that would hold if the diversification is sustained; and no policy flip-flops truncate it.  That is the end CBN must see to, as it interacts with the fiscal authorities, in arriving at the right economic policy mix. Right now, the prospect appears good. With the election results suggesting the continuation of the incumbent government in power, there would appear less chances of a policy summersault. Still, that is no reason for those involved to lower their guard. With a gradually changed but stable policy environment, what is left is for the banks to battle and throw off old habits, which have sustained them all through the economic ancien regime. That would appear the crux of the CBN present sensitisation, as expressed by Deputy Governor Lamatek. At the end of the day, a diversified banking asset portfolio is a win-win for all – the trading banks, their depositors, shareholders, the real sector players and even the huge informal economy, as banking services become expanded and deepened. It’s a nice prospect of giving the economy a healthy jab in the arm, via much improved intermediation, across as many sectors as are practicable. 