A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress has expressed disappointment with the postponement of Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections I the country. The APC chieftain who pleaded anonymity said he drove all night from Abuja to to Bénin City only to hear about the postponement few hours after he arrived. He said the postponement would not change the defeat awaiting the opposition Peoples Democratic Party but that the electoral body would have taken the decision much earlier. At the residences of some party chieftains, food prepared to serve voters and party supporters at polling units were distributed to people. In Benin City, markets and many shops were closed. Few shops were opened in commercial areas like the Kings Square and environs. Commercial drivers were few in major routes in Bénin City. Those who spoke said they decided to work since the elections would no longer be conducted. Some candidates who spoke to our reporter expressed mixed feelings at the last minute postponement of the election. Barr. Omosede Igbinedion, candidate of the PDP for Ovia Federal constituency described as a calculated attempt to truncate democracy. Igbinedion said the ruling APC only tried to extend the defeat that awaits at the polls. Deputy Chief Whip, Senator Francis Alimikhena, appealed to party supporters that travelled from one party of the country to another to remain peaceful and calm. Senator Alimikhena said President Buhari was also affected by the postponement and urged Nigerians to remain resolute in voting for the APC. Candidate of the APC for Ovia Federal Constituency, Mr Dennis Idahosa, said the timing was wrong but that he would be prepared to secure victory next Saturday. He expressed optimism that the postponement would led to the conduct of credible and acceptable poll and urged his supporters to remain committed to the liberation of the Ovia. Former National Chairman of the APC,  Chief John Odigie-Oyegun said the operational difficulties cited by the electoral umpire was like an airline cancelling flight due to operational hitches which is general. “Let INEC come up with the specifics for us to react appropriately”. Chief Oyegun noted. Former governorship aspirant of both the PDP and the APC, Mr. Kenneth Imansuangbon, said it was a show of shame on the part of the ruling party. Imansuangbon urged Nigerians to be steadfast in the quest to root out the ruling APC and rescue the country from retrogressive and anti-democratic elements. He said, “They cannot postpone the evil days. If they like,  let them postponed the election 100 times, defeat awaits them”. Edo State Chairman of APC, Mr. Anselm Ojezua, said it was not the first time election was being shifted. Ojezua notes that during the days of former President Goodluck Jonathan, election was postponed even when voting was ongoing in some party of the country. He blamed the mixed up on INEC vendors who wrongly labeled election materials  meant for certain states to another. “Of course at that stage, there is no way you can recall material already dispatched and at the same time allow elections to go on. The best bet would  have been to postpone which INEC did”, he said. On his part, Chairman of Edo PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, said the shift was a monumental failure of INEC. He said, “This is a manifestation of failure. Those who postponed the election can only run but can’t  hide as dooms day await them. It is a pity that most people find it difficult to meet up with their responsibilities because of bad government. So it is time to kick them out”.