The Pension Transition Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) of the Federal Government has commenced verification exercise for former workers of the Savannah Sugar Company, Numan, Adamawa State. The 1,571 affected workers were disengaged in 2002 when the company was privatised, following which they have failed to get their due disengagement benefits from successive governments till now. The Executive Secretary of PTAD, Sharon Ikeazor, in a statement in Yola Wednesday, said the verification exercise was in furtherance of President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to improve the welfare of Nigerian pensioners, “especially those neglected by previous administrations.” The verification of the ex-workers of the Savannah Sugar Company, which began on Monday at the Lelewal Hotel in Jimeta, Yola, will continue till Wednesday, February 13 when all the 1571 former workers are expected to have been verified through their letters of appointment, last promotion and disengagement from the company, among other requirements. The Savannah Sugar Company Ltd, a cane sugar manufacturing complex occupying a vast farmland in Numan, became a private venture upon its privatisation by the Federal Government. It is currently a subsidiary of the Dangote Group of companies. Some of the ex-workers, who turned up for the verification exercise on Wednesday, expressed optimism they would, at last, be certified for their benefits after so many years of waiting. Mrs. Ronica Dickson, who said she served the company for 16 years before being laid off 17 years ago, said it had been terrible while she waited for her benefits. “This government has tried by this intervention. We believe we will at last get what is due to us. “It will be a huge relief because there have been so many things waiting to be done in our individual private lives,” she said. Chairman of the Retrenched Workers Association of the company, Mr. Polycap Mbande, also told newsmen at the venue of the verification exercise that the past 17 years had been tough for the ex-workers. “Hundreds have died and many are down with stroke, diabetes and other diseases because they can’t afford healthy food and they can’t meet their numerous needs,” he said.