President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is committed to a private sector driven economy, the Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex A. Okoh, has said. He called on local and international businessmen to take advantage of the government’s open door policy to establish businesses in the country. Okoh, who spoke at the handover of theTerminal ‘B’ Warri Old Port to the concessionaire- Ocean & Cargo Terminal Services Limited –on Monday, said Nigerian ports are the main gateway to the country; and are key to the Federal Government’s objective of diversifying and growing the economy. He said the objective of the government’s concession, is to increase efficiency at the ports with the ultimate goal to modernise the ports to make them more competitive. Okoh, in a statement issued by BPE’s Head of Public Communication, Amina Othman Tukur,  said the concession is for a period of 25 years at an annual lease fee of $1,621,500, in addition to the entry fee and monthly throughput fee chargeable on the volume of cargo handled. He assured that the implementation of the covenanted development plan for the Concessionaire would be closely monitored by the relevant government agencies, including the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), BPE and Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) to ensure compliance. NPA Managing Director, Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman, represented by the Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Sokonte Davies, said the concessioning of ports’ facilities was carried out to enhance productivity and attract more cargos to the hitherto abandoned port. She appealed to the people in the port community to support government’s initiatives aimed at developing the maritime industry, saying the port concession would enhance the economy of Delta State and create jobs for people in the host communities. “We, therefore implore the communities, in making the government’s efforts a success; they should work positively with the concessionaire; the communities should try not to put any pressure on them because pressures can shut the business down. “But if the communities support them, they will see that as activities increase and vessels come, it will increase the engagement of young men and women and even several other people. “The communities will be positively impacted because the economy will grow and it will have positive effect on every area of life of the people. “We are using this opportunity to appeal to the host communities to help this one to work. It is working in other places, don’t let yours be different”, he added.