The Deputy Governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), in Lagos State, Dr Obafemi  Hamzat, has said the state may do away with roundabouts in the metropolis for a more efficient road management. He, however, added that the situation will be subjected to further studies before eventually settling for the best model to adopt. Hamzat, who was a former Commissioner for Works & Infrastructure in the state, made this known in a chat with The Nation, while speaking on his plans for the state. According to him, research studies have shown that there are about 61 gridlock points in Lagos, with the biggest of them experienced at toll points along the Lekki/Ajah Estate. Furthermore, he revealed that studies showed that about 21 per cent of vehicles on Nigerian roads are domiciled in Lagos, leading to an upsurge in vehicle renewals in recent times. This, he said, lends credence to the need for intermodal transportation system in the state. Indeed, the need for this model of transportation has been on the rise, given the hectic traffic situation being experienced. Perhaps this accounts for the rise in water transportation in the state. For instance, from 14, 000 daily passenger movement by ferry in 2005, a record 144, 000 passengers now commute daily by this means. Hamzat, therefore, assured that if voted into office, his administration will improve on the model by engaging bigger ferries to ply the waterways, or by subsiding the cost of water transportation to make it more affordable for the populace. On the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT), Hamzat said: “We will provide large volume of buses and work on providing more dedicated routes for them. We will coordinate their activities. Our business is to ensure that movement of people and goods flow freely.  We will work on our inner roads  by  lifting the Public Works Department.  When we go full swing into construction of our roads,  we can employ 118,00 people  annually and that will stimulate the economy of the state because construction is a huge job creator,” he explained. Hamzat, while responding to a question on housing, said low cost housing does not exist anywhere as there are no low cost iron rods or cement. Rather, he explained, government will work on a sustainable housing system that will benefit the populace, especially first time home owners, young graduates and couples. On the perennial flooding in the state, the APC deputy governorship candidate explained that since the state lies two metres below sea level, the cases of flash flood being experienced is nothing to worry about because once there is a channel for water to flow such floods will disappear in no time. Hamzat explained that government will always work on desilting  and opening up of the drainage which they usually do two months before the onset of rains. Speaking on the challenge of refuse disposal, he said the greatest mistake made was to subjugate the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA). He maintained that LAWMA will continue to be the regulatory agency as far as refuse management is concerned while PSP operators will  function in areas they have capacities.