An Italian vascular surgeon, Dr Brotzu, serendipitously discovered the hair generating property of prostaglandin E1 and went on to produce a formula containing a prostaglandin analogue, DGLA, plus three other ingredients.  The Italian firm Fidia Pharma Group acquired the rights to manufacture this product as a hair growth lotion “Trinov”. The laboratory of Dr George Cotsarelis, a dermatologist at the University of Pennslyvania School Of Medicine published a scientific paper ‘Prostaglandin D2 Inhibits Hair Growth and Is Elevated in Bald Scalp of Men with Androgenetic Alopecia’ Sci Transl Med. 2012 Mar 21; 4(126): 126ra34). BecausePGD2, which is a natural chemical in the skin, in raised levels inhibits hair growth, PGD2 blockers became a topic of interest for reversing baldness.  The drug Setipiprant was originally developed by the company Actelion for asthma but did not have advantage over existing drugs for asthma.  The drug acts as a selective blocker of the prostaglandin D2 receptor 2 that can be taken by mouth and therefore easy to use.  The discovery of actions of prostaglandin D2 by George Cotsarelis led to further investigation of Setipiprant.  Presently, Allergan, an Irish pharmaceutical company, is producing Setipiprant for male pattern baldness. Dr George Cotsarelis, being an expert in hair loss and epithelial stem cell biology, localized presumptive hair follicle stem cells to the hair follicle bulge.  His team discovered that these cells could regenerate all major epithelial cell types within the skin, thus these stem cells could be useful for tissue engineering.  He co-founded the company Follica in 2005 and Follica, through hair follicle neogenesis, is presently demonstrating that loss of hair follicles and baldness need not be permanent.  Follica is developing the RAIN treatment (amongst other solutions) and a smartphone app that can be used with it.  The treatment artificially traumatizes (micro wounding) in order to induce the scalp to grow hair under the influence of added fibroblast growth factor 9. Dr George Cotsarelis owns a number of patents related to wound healing and hair growth products. Hair stimulating complex (HSC660) is a serum that is injected into the scalp to stimulate growth of hair follicles and hair. It was derived from neonatal skin cells (neonatal fibroblasts) grown under embryonic like conditions of hypoxia and suspension. The cells then secrete growth factors such as KGF, VEGF, and follistatin into their growth media.  The cell conditioned media is used to make the concentrated growth factor serum HSC660 which can activate stem cells in the body, including in the resting (non-growing) hair follicles. Follistatin in particular has been linked to hair follicle stem cell proliferation. The company Histogen Inc, a regenerative medicine company owns the rights. The company assures the public of avoiding ethical issues of use of embryonic stem cells by using neonatal skin fibroblasts  to generate growth factors  (http://www.histogeninc.com/technology/).  Primary human skin fibroblasts can be ethically isolated from neonatal foreskin and cryopreserved.  HSC660 may be useful for both males and females. Scientists have studied the various biochemical pathways involved in androgenic alopecia (AGA).  David Weinstein , MD, PhD, a neuroscientist specialized in nerve regeneration, out of personal interest for his own baldness,  developed a medication RT1640 comprised of 3 agents (minoxidil, cyclosporin A,  and RT175) which act on different aspects of the pathways involved in AGA.  This formula promotes hair growth and restores some hair color.  Dr Weinstein founded River Town Therapeutics which is working on the production of this new medication. Various antiandrogen formulas that can be applied to the skin are being developed.  Examples are a small molecule tagged SM04554 by the US company Samumed; Cortexolone-17á-propionate (produced by brand name Breezula) by the Itallian company Cassiopea; the peptide FOL-005 by the Swedish company Follicum. Another group of interesting compounds for hair growth arecalled JAK inhibitors.  They inhibit the Janus kinase (JAK) family of enzymes. A scientist, Dr Angela Christiano of Columbia University Department of Dermatology and her team of researchers discovered that JAK inhibitors promote growth of hair follicles. They identified specific immune cells and pathways responsible for attacking the hair follicle and found that JAK inhibitors could reawaken follicles in the resting phase, resulting in new hair growth. The company Acalris Therapeutics is presently investigating the effectiveness of a JAK inhibitor ATI-502 that can be applied to the skin. Therapeutic agents administered to patients for various diseases used to be mainly chemicals and radiation but now include antibodies, proteins, and cells.  For baldness, there are many new treatment options.  It seems that we may never need to worry about growing bald in the future.  In fact, there may be no future for baldness. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635