The federal government has appealed to maritime- impacted communities in Delta state to support efforts to revive ports activities by not pressuring operators. The Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Ms. Hadiza Bala-Usman, made the plea during the official handing over of ceremony of the Terminal B, Berth 4 of the Old Warri Port to Ocean and Cargo Services limited, a partner to maritime industry giant, SIFAX Group, at NPA, Warri on Monday. Bala- Usman, who was represented by the Executive Director, Marine and Operations of the NPA, Dr Sokonte Davies, concessioning of ports facilities was carried out to enhance productivities and attract more cargos to the hitherto abandoned ports. Appealing to the people in the host communities to the maritime environment, the NPA chief executive officer said the dividends of supporting the federal government’s initiatives in the maritime would be an enhanced economy for Warri and environs, the state and surplus of jobs for people from the communities. “We therefore implore the impacted communities, in making the government’s efforts a success, they should work positively with the concessioner; the communities should try not to put any pressure on them because pressures can shut the business down. “But if the communities support them, they will see that as activities increase and vessels come, it will increase the engagement of young men and women, even the old people. “The communities will be positively impacted because economy will grow and it will have positive effect on every area of life of the people. “We are using this opportunity to appeal to the host communities to help this one to work. It is working in other places, don’t let yours be different,” Bala-Usman said. Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) Alex Okoh, on behalf of the National Council on Privatisation, expressed satisfaction at the milestone event. He said that Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited emerged the successful concessionaire for the transaction. He revealed the concession of Terminal B is for a period of 25 years at an annual lease fee of US$1,621,500.00 in addition to the entry fee and monthly throughput fee chargeable on volume of cargo handled According to him: “The objective of the government in Port concession is to increase efficiency in our ports, improve service delivery, upgrade and modernize facilities in ports, reduce cost of shipping and clearing of goods at the Ports and relive the government of the burden of financing the sector.” Group Managing Director of SIFAX Group Adekunle Oyinloye said Ocean and Cargo Services Limited was ready to deliver efficient services at the port and make the Warri Port a vibrant and enviable hub of maritime activities again.