The Army Special Forces has lost one officer and three soldiers in a battle between troops and Boko Haram terrorists at 27 Task Force Brigade at Buni Yadi in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State. In a statement yesterday in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, Army spokesman Col. Sagir Musa said scores of terrorists in gun trucks attempted to attack a Buni/Yadi military base on Saturday evening. “Unfortunately, an officer and three soldiers lost their lives during the encounter,” he said. Musa added that five soldiers were injured and were receiving treatment in the brigade. The spokesman said during the gun battle, five Boko Haram terrorists were killed while dozens escaped into the bush in gun trucks and weaponry with gunshot wounds. According to him, nine AK-47 rifles, an anti-aircraft gun and ammunition were recovered in the battle. The statement said: “Though the terrorists appeared prepared for the attack – as they approached the military location in four gun trucks, a mine resistant ambush protection, one MOWAC and assorted arms and ammunitions – but they suffered heavy losses. “Five of the terrorists were effectively deleted.” On recovered arms, he said: “Nine AK-47 rifles, an anti-aircraft gun, 121 rounds of 12.7 mm anti-aircraft ammunitions, two 36 hand grenades, 295 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition, four improvised explosive devices (IEDs), an IED cylinder, an RPG bomb, an RPG bomb charger, a gun truck and a Bajaj motorcycle were also recovered from them. “The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has lauded the successes recorded by troops in recent times. The operations were in Forward Army bases in the Northeast.” The Army advised its personnel to remain resolute, alert and decisive as well as professional in discharging its onerous national assignment. “The Army expressed appreciation to all those who passed credible timely information that aided our successful abortion of the deliberate terrorists’ attacks on Buni/Yadi military base in Yobe,” the statement said. The Nation reports that this was the second time the insurgents attacked the brigade in less than two months.