There was a mild drama yesterday when the Kwara State All Progressives Congress (APC) deputy governorship candidate, Kayode Alabi, visited Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) at Gaa Akanbi to appeal for calm following the postponement of the general elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in the early hours of February 16, postponed the presidential and National Assembly elections to February 23. INEC also shifted the governorship and state assembly elections earlier scheduled for March 2 to March 9. Alabi, who mounted the pulpit to read the Yoruba version of the Bible, asked the congregation to open to Deuteronomy 3:26 and Number 16:17, both of which contained O Tó Gé. Making reference to the scripture, he said the slogan was borne out of the myriad of problems confronting the state, such as moribund industries, lack of pipe borne water and deplorable public schools, among others. Alabi, who also visited other churches in Ilorin, the state capital, called for understanding, harmony and hitch-free elections on the rescheduled dates. On the sidelines of the visit to churches, Alabi told NAN that Kwara State residents were more resolute to vote the government of their choice. NAN reports that some of the churches visited include First ECWA, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) and Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church. At the RCCG Mount of Joy Parish, Region 4 headquarters at Sabo Oke, Pastor Akintunde Abdullahi advised the church members to support the APC candidate. Abdullahi said: “This is our own; we must support him. I am not a politician, but I love politics. I know we belong to different political parties, but he is our own. “If I don’t support my pastor, who else will I support? If any of you is interested in politics, I will support you. The era of shying away from politics is over.” Pastor Ilesanmi Samuel of CAC Worldwide decried the situation where politicians often sought God’s support when seeking elective positions but quickly forgot the vows they made after emerging victorious. The cleric said God is looking for trusted politicians who would change the face of politics in Kwara and Nigeria, adding that he had always had bitter experiences with politicians. “Let it be known that God is raising you for the purpose of changing the face of Kwara politics because the people are suffering,” Samuel said. Rev. Babatubde Owojaiye of the First ECWA Church urged the congregants to remain faithful and honest to the people.