Newly elected President of National Association of Nigerian Professional Footballers (NANPF) otherwise called ‘Players Union,’ ex-international Tijani Babandiga opens up on the challenges of his new office, his aspiration and how his past achievements shaped him for the future. He chats with TAIWO ALIMI. The ambition of former Super Eagles star, Tijani Babangida, is certainly taller than his statue.  Babangida is well known for his accelerating speed in the right wing of the Nigerian senior team during its glorious era (1990s) when the Super Eagles shook the world like storm. The pocket-sized attacker adequately made up for this with his great velocity that was the undoing of many defenders at club and national levels. His playing style was reportedly compared to that of Marc Overmars, the Dutch winger with whom he played together and spent majority of his playing career at Ajax. Overall, he played in five different countries on three different continents. At club level, Babangida spent nine years in The Netherlands, playing for VVV-Venlo, Roda JC and Ajax with whom he won the Eredivisie plus KNVB Cup double. He scored combined 76 goals in 249 appearances in seven clubs across Europe and Asia between 1991 and 2004 before he hung his boot in China. The height of his club career came in 1996, when he joined Ajax in the summer of 1996 for €5 million. He appeared in 29 league games, scoring four goals in his first season with Ajax. Babangida played an important role in Ajax’s European campaign, scoring three goals, including one against Auxerre in the group stages, and the winning goal in the second leg of the UEFA Champions League encounter with Atlético Madrid at the Vicente Calderón Stadium, which put Ajax through to the semi-finals of the competition. Making his international debut in 1994, he played 36 games, scoring five times for Nigeria in a ten-year career, including four at the 1998 World Cup in France. He played two Africa Cup of Nation tournaments, wining silver in the 1998 edition. Two years earlier, Babangida played an active role in Nigeria’s gold medal feat at the 1996 Olympic men’s football event, brushing aside Brazil and Argentina along the way. He also played for the Super Eagles at the France ’98 World Cup, where he scored the consolatory goal for Nigeria in the 4-1 loss to Denmark. Looking back at all these achievements, the former FC Taraba chairman said he is fulfilled for choosing football as a career. “With football, I got all; I can’t ask for more,” Baba waxed philosophically in an interview with THE NATION. “I played in all major competitions at national, international and at club levels. “In between, I picked some laurels and scored many goals and important ones for country and club. I have played in major tournaments and got medals and honours. “So, what is there to regret? I can only thank God for my achievements, I can’t ask for more.” Meanwhile, Babangida, who was unanimously elected new NANPF president last December in Abuja, noted that challenges before the layers’ union executives are huge but they remain resolute in overcoming them as he explained in the full interview captured below.  How does it feel to lead the Players Union? It is cool, but the challenges on it are much. A lot has to be done in all aspect. What are your short and long-term plans as president of Players Union? I want to get the full backing and trust from the players who are active, so that we can help and fight for their right. I want to see a more stable union financially. As I talk, the union is not stable financially. We need full restructuring to reposition a lot of things. Owing salary and entitlement is a big deal in Nigerian league, how will you tackle this? We have to ensure that club chairmen are friends with us. It must be done for us to speak like friends for the good of the game. They must not see us as impediment and we must not see our job as that of any kind of union activity that sees people on the other side of the table as enemies. Without them nothing is going to be possible. I believe if we are on the same line things can go more easily. A good number of your colleagues are into coaching and administration, why did you choose union activities? I am an all rounder. I have done every bit of everything from coaching to management and now union. For three seasons, I was chairman of a club in the professional league and for two years I was chairman of a premier league club. I ventured into coaching and management and was assistant to Sunday Oliseh as head coach of the Super Eagles. I am now president of Players Union. You can see that I have it all. Going down memory lane, how did football find you or vice versa? I grew up finding myself playing football on the streets having come from a large family. Kaduna was a fertile ground for youth football and I was part of that era. From the streets, I joined youth clubs and the school game where some of us got exposed to club football. It began like a passion and at the end it became real business. Growing up, who inspired you to take up the game? I was inspired by a lot of things as a young boy. I remember watching a lot of videos back then of Brazil national teams. I think I must have watched the game a million times; never got tired of watching Pele of Brazil. So, I want to say that Pele inspired me a lot. I just wanted to be like him, excelling in the game. He was a resilient player and I learnt from him that you have to work hard to make it big. You spent over 10 years in the Dutch league, tell us how it began and the experience? It all began when we went to Holland for training tour with the then Olympic team (Dream Team 1). That was how Roda JC picked me up from there. Playing in Holland is not easy. It is highly technical and most of their teams exhibit that style. So, you find out that not many Africans or Nigerians can fit into the Dutch football system. Up till now only four Nigerians have played for the Dutch giant, Ajax Amsterdam. I am one of them. You are among the first set of Nigerian players to play in China, are you surprised with what China is doing now in world football? China has passion for football as you can see from their spending. But I always say if Chinese teams can invest more on younger players their football will be brighter and promising. You can see that most players who are about hanging their boots go to China for higher pay. I expect them to do better than that. When I went to China, it was a period they began to invest in the game; they had the passion and they were ready to put in money. I’m not surprised that they are where they are today. If they invest in their youths, the sky would be their limit. You are a veteran of World Cups and Nations’ Cups, are you fulfilled or do you have regrets? In football, I got all. I can’t ask for more. I have played in all major competitions at national, international and at club levels. In between, I had picked some laurels and scored many goals and important ones for country and club. I have played in major tournaments and got medals and honours. So, what is there to regret? I can only thank God for my achievement. I can’t ask for more. Tell us about your son My son loves football, but I’ve told him that whatever he wants to do must be after his university. He can choose whatever he wants to do right after college. But for now, I have to choose for him and it is school first. He is 16, and a good footballer and he wants to be a player because he loves what I did as a player and is always looking up to me. But right now he has to study hard, earn his degree and then he will be ready for soccer. What is your philosophy in life? I like living a simple life and I am positive all the time. What are your favourite food, wears, holiday destination, and city? I enjoy eating rice. I don’t mind it morning, afternoon and evening. I like casual wears too and Barcelona is my beloved city and holiday destination. I can’t have enough of it. I love the city because it is romantic. Who is your favourite player, favourite playmates at country and team? I am a man of the people. I like to make friends. I am still in touch with almost all my national teammates even till now. At club level, I was close to Sunday Oliseh and we usually stay together while in the national team. I was with Rashidi Yekini, and after he left, Garba Lawal. If there is one player that I prefer on my side it is Finidi George. He is one player model professional; very calm and quiet, a player everyone wants to emulate. He takes his time before he talks. You must have noticed how clever he was on the pitch. Even at the peak of my career, only Finidi could bench me. And I accepted that, though we were two different kind of players. The good thing is that all the years we spent together in the Super Eagles, I never saw Finidi involved in an altercation or arguing with any of our teammates. He is one of the greatest players I’ve much respect for. Most times, I had to play second fiddle to him as I substituted him while playing for the national team. But he never showed his anger on and off the pitch and encouraged me.  