•Governors should not use public property to score partisan points Not many political actions have been so brazenly indicative of the impunity, lack of tact, political intolerance and executive lawlessness that some Nigerian governors display as the now common idea of thwarting the plans by opposition candidates to make use of the state stadiums for their campaigns. Just last week, Kano State governor, Abdulahi Ganduje, of the All Progressives Congress (APC), had reportedly ordered the closure of Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano, supposedly for renovation. Many had taken that as a subtle attempt to make the stadium unavailable for the campaign rally by the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, scheduled for February 10. Kano State Sports Commission spokesman, Abbati Sabo, tried to provide some puerile alibi by saying the stadium was being renovated for the upcoming football league season for 2019. Taken with a pinch of salt, there was a national outrage for the stadium closure as it reeked of political motive. In what seemed like an afterthought, the governor seemingly ordered the contractor handling the stadium renovation to halt work and allow the campaign rally of the PDP presidential candidate to hold. We are appalled at the fact that the Nigerian brand of democracy seems to be continually under attack as those who swore to protect it tend to deviate from their oaths of office. There seems to be too much partisanship in ways that politicians surreptitiously exclude certain citizens from freely associating and expressing themselves. The Kano stadium controversy ironically seems to have taken a cue from past executive lawlessness by some other governors. In December, last year, the same renovation of Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Akwa Ibom State was the reason given by the PDP governor, Udom Emmanuel’s administration for denying the APC presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, the use of the stadium.  They, instead, offered the alternative Ibom Township Stadium that obviously takes less people. When Nigerians expressed outrage, the stadium supposedly under renovation was offered to the APC for its campaign rally. The former governor of Akwa Ibom State, now Senator Godswill Akpabio, was caught in the same stadium politics when he prevented a former governor, Obong Victor Attah, from celebrating his 70th birthday in the stadium he built, over political differences. From Kogi State came reports that Governor Yahaya Bello attempted the stadium politics, too. It is quite disturbing that a common patrimony – stadium – paid for by tax payers at federal and state levels can be appropriated by politicians who should be responsible and responsive to the needs of everyone under their geographic zone, or the country in terms of national stadiums. The order by the governors smacks of undue partisanship and naked abuse of power. Once an interested party is ready to pay for the stadium and is given guidelines for its usage, the stadium must be made available to the individual or group, depending on the terms of the rental. It is very unfortunate that governors that ought to be serving the interest of the public appropriate state infrastructure in ways that point to sole ownership of such structures. Moreover, money made from the chain of events by users generates revenue and indirectly empowers the citizens. We urge caution and adherence to the best democratic practices by all elected persons in the country. Democracy is not only good when it helps politicians access power. Democracy gives power to the people and such power can be exercised when they choose what party to belong to in a multi-party democracy like ours. These governors and other budding pseudo dictators must purge themselves of the military mentality of assuming that might is right and appropriating state resources as their private estates. Every citizen must be allowed freedom of choice and association. To recant earlier instructions after much bad blood and socio-political damage has been done, to us, is amateurish and dictatorial, and must be stopped.