Ginger is one of the earliest oriental spices known to Africa and is still in the large demand today. The largest ginger producing country is India, which produces about 50% of the world’s total production and is the largest exporter. In India, the total annual production of ginger stood at 4, 20,000 metric tons (FAO, 2009). Other important producers are China, Taiwan, Nigeria, Sierra Leon, Jamaica, Thailand and Australia. Nigeria has the potential of being the world second highest producer of ginger, as the country has a vast land suitable for its growth. Ginger is cultivated in a very large quantity across the Northern states. Ginger requires warm and humid climate for better growth and it is well suited for the cultivation in hilly region. Its growing period is March-May and harvesting period is November-December of the year. The aroma of ginger is pleasant and spicy and its flavor penetrating. The antiseptic or pungent compounds present in ginger makes it indispensable in the manufacture of a number of food products like ginger bread, confectionary, ginger ale, curry powders, certain curried meats, table sauces, in pickling and the manufacture of certain soft drinks like cordials, ginger cocktail, carbonated drinks. Production process: Drying process: Sliced ginger roots are transferred into the flash dryer, or oven to dry at a regulated temperature of 75 °C for 20 hrs up to moisture content 9-11%. Grinding process: After cooling at room temperature, the dried ginger slices are blended into powder in a blender or hammer mill separately. Packaging: At this stage the product is ready for packaging. It is preferably packaged in high density polythene bags and plastic containers. All polythene bags and plastic containers containing ginger powder are to be stored at room temperature. Note: It must be packaged in a well labeled material with trade mark for easy identification of your product. Marketing: At this stage, the product is ready for marketing, and you must make sure that you have very good marketing channel and a formidable marketing team. Nigeria is a very \large market for it, this is because there is an increasing awareness for the health benefits of ginger. Cost implication: Ginger powder production depends on the capacity that the investor wishes to install. One can venture into such business with as low as N500,000 to as much N100million.