In an election year, it is disappointing that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s war against corruption has not achieved the expected result after four years. Nigeria is still among the world’s most corrupt countries, according to the 2018 Corruption Perception Index (CPI) released by Transparency International (TI) on January 29.   Nigeria ranked 144th, with Kenya, Mauritania, Comoros and Guatemala, out of the 180 countries surveyed and ranked by the Berlin-based anti-corruption group. Nigeria had ranked 148th out of 180 countries in 2017. The movement from 148th position to 144th out of 180 countries in 2018 is insignificant. Indeed, the Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, an agent of TI in Nigeria, Musa Rafsanjani, observed:  “Nigeria scored 27 out of 100 points in the 2018 CPI, maintaining the same score as in the 2017 CPI.” It is remarkable that Buhari, who is campaigning for re-election, rationalised the unremarkable result of his government’s anti-corruption efforts when he met with members of Jigawa State Council of Traditional Rulers at the government house, Dutse, on February 2. Buhari said in Hausa: “When I was fighting corruption as head of state, they said I was in a hurry to wipe out corruption in the society, and I ended up in jail for over three years. Now, that due process is being followed in the fight against corruption they are complaining that I’m too slow. Before, they said I was in haste, now they are saying I’m slow even calling me Baba Go Slow. You can see, governing Nigeria needs Gods guidance and payers. Let me assure that I will not relent in the fight against corruption…” In other words, Buhari believes the rule of law is ironically responsible for   the alleged slow pace of his government’s war against corruption. But this viewpoint is simplistic. Rafsanjani provides insight into why “Nigeria is still perceived as a highly corrupt nation.” He said: “With the inability of the current administration to stop political boycotts of key appointments and pass the much-needed legislation such as the Proceeds of Crime Bill and to implement the recommendations given at the launch of the CPI 2017, it is no wonder that Nigeria’s score in 2018 is no different from the one of 2017.” He added, “Public participation and active reporting of corruption is seriously hindered by the absence of the Whistleblower Protection Act that would ensure the protection of the whistle-blowers from dismissals, suspensions, harassment, discrimination or intimidation. Let us be clear, no country can make progress without insider reportage of corruption abuses.” Rafsanjani also observed:  “Corruption in the defence and security sector contributes significantly to the human despair and economic stagnation in Nigeria. While the Nigerian defence budget has soared more than 500 per cent in the last 10 years, insecurity and breakdown of the rule of law in some parts of the country continue unabated.” In addition, he said: “Despite some indisputable evidence, many corrupt politicians and businessmen and women seem to be above the law. Recent corruption scandals, including the GandujeGate, ShemaGate, DasukiGate, IkoyiGate, among others, have not seen diligent investigations, prosecutions and convictions of these cases and other Politically Exposed Persons. The authorities need to understand that these acts deepen a sense of hopelessness among well-meaning Nigerians.” A striking development further highlighted why Nigeria’s war against corruption is unimpressive.  Saturday PUNCH reported that the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) had refused to release copies of asset declaration forms of some prominent Nigerians more than seven days after the newspaper sent a letter of request to the bureau. The newspaper said in its February 2 edition: “Relying on the provisions of the Freedom of Information (FoI) Act 2011, Saturday PUNCH  had on January 24 written to the CCB asking for copies of asset declaration forms of the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige; Minister of Works, Housing and Power, Babatunde Fashola (SAN); Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu; and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi.” Saturday PUNCH  had also sought  from the CCB the declaration forms of  Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Agriculture, Audu Ogbeh; Minister of State for Transportation(Aviation), Hadi Sirika; Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Director-General, DSS, Yusuf Bichi; and Finance Minister, Zainab Ahmed. The newspaper’s letter contained other requests: “the number and names of political office holders who have yet to fill and submit their asset declaration forms for whatever reasons” and “the number of names of political office holders the Code of Conduct Bureau is investigating over issues relating to asset declaration forms.” In addition, the newspaper asked for the names of political office holders “yet to comply with the bureau’s directive to visit it for verification.” It is noteworthy that the FoI Act provides that public institutions must make the information requested available within seven days of receiving the request. The Act also states that failure to give access to the information requested within the time frame provided by the Act is deemed as a refusal of access. It is also noteworthy that “eight days after the application was filed and acknowledged by the bureau, the information requested was not made available to Saturday PUNCH, neither was there any written notice to state the reasons for the denial.” Not surprisingly, the Buhari administration has been accused of selectiveness in its war against corruption. This may well be yet another reason for the alleged slow progress. Rafsanjani argued: “If Nigeria’s democracy is to be the preserved, the origins of huge assets of Nigerian real owners needed be disclosed.” His organisation also attributed the high corruption index in Nigeria to the secrecy in the allocation of oil and gas licences to individuals and companies. He accused the federal government of pretending not to be aware of money-laundering crimes and tax evasion in the country, saying it had failed to investigate and prosecute individuals and companies involved in money laundering and tax evasion. Buhari’s selling point hasn’t changed as he seeks re-election. His mantra is still: war against corruption. Will another four years as president make a difference?