NSIA Insurance has launched its new International Health Insurance product, NSIA Health Insurance into the Nigerian market. The Managing Director of NSIA Insurance, Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, in a statement made available to reporters in Lagos, said to deliver on all that is expected from an international health insurance offering, NSIA has partnered with Cigna and Hollard. Cigna is a Fortune 500 company in the USA and one of the world’s leading providers of health benefits enabled through its 41,000 employees serving over 90 million customers all over the world. Hollard on the other, is South Africa’s largest independent insurance company, with an ever-growing African footprint making it known throughout the continent for its innovative approach and customer-centric brand. She stated that NSIA Health Insurance provides a robust health plan to local companies who want to provide their staff with access to quality healthcare in Nigeria and beyond as well as multinationals operating in Nigeria who desire to harmonise their health insurance plan across Africa. She said: “The staff of these companies once enrolled, are able to access the finest quality healthcare available all over Africa and the rest of the world whenever they need such services. “NSIA Health Insurance is one of a kind. Companies that purchase the product are rest assured that their staff will easily access the best medical services, wherever they are in the world, when the need arises.  This is a promise that is already being fulfilled by our technical partners in Nigeria and other parts of the world where they operate.  Already, a number of leading multinationals in Nigeria have signed on to NSIA Health Insurance with many other prospects in the pipeline. “NSIA Health Insurance will take into consideration the different health insurance needs of organisations, whether they operate in one African country or many, or whether they are looking to cover key local staff or expatriates or both. The product offers a combination of health plans that provide optimised coverage that can be aligned to a company’s budget.” She said NSIA is excited about this addition to its portfolio of products, which affords it the opportunity to meet more of the insurance needs of its increasing customer base. The company is one of the most progressive composite insurance companies in Nigeria, with its head office located in Lagos, a strong regional presence in Abuja and large network in every strategic state. The Solvency Capital of NSIA Insurance stands at N10.7 billion as at 2017 and total asset base is N15.5 billion. NSIA Insurance is one of the most capitalised companies in the insurance industry, she noted.