Kano state Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has described as unfortunate the attack on a group of All Progressive Congress (APC) supporters by members of the Kwankwasiyya group of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) while on campaign in Bebeji/Kiru Local Government Area on Thursday. He called on security agents to fish out perpetrators of the attack, which left at least five persons dead and other seriously wounded. According to him: “The Kwankwassiyya group has continued to brazenly attack members and supporters of the All Progressive Congress (APC). “The latest just happened on Thursday when they attacked our members while on a special prayer session in Bebeji local government area which was organised for peaceful conduct of the forthcoming general elections in the country, leaving some party members dead and others with injuries.” In a statement by the Commissioner for Information, Youth and Culture, Malam Muhammad Garba, Ganduje accused the Kwankwasiyya PDP thugs of being behind the attack. According to him: “They attacked our peaceful supporters under the watchful eyes of their leader, Rabi’u Kwankwaso, who was on a campaign rally in the area, brandishing all sorts of deadly weapons, attacked the prayer session, which is being organised by member representing Kiru/Bebeji constituency, Hon. Abdulmumini Jibrin Kofa for meanness free polls.” The attack, the statement, he lamented: “is the latest in series by the Kwankwasiyya ruffians in an apparent attempt to put a clog in the wheel of progress toward ensuring free and peaceful election in the state.” The Governor lamented: “The group is superficially venting its anger on members and supporters of the APC, having gotten a sign of defeat at the polls, as part of a calculated attempt to scamper peaceful 2019 elections.” He prayed for the departed souls and condoled with the bereaved families, just as he also prayed for the quick recovery of those injured during the heinous attack. Ganduje also directed security agencies “to fish out perpetrators of the monstrous blitzkrieg with a view to ensuring that they are dealt with accordingly.”