A leadership crisis has hit apex Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Yoruba Council of Elders ( YCE ) with the Secretary General Dr. Kunle Olajide dismissing the presidency of Col. Samuel Agbede (retd) as illegitimate. Olajide described Agbede as very ambition whose leadership is unacceptable to the members of the council. Col. Agbede became president of the council following the demise of Chief Idowu Sofolahan (SAN) in March 2018. But the President accused the secretary of being economical with the truth, saying he is driven by the ambition of becoming president at all costs. Olajide told reporters in Ibadan the council has not appointed a President since the death of Sofolahan. But Agbede countered, saying elders of the council put him in the position. According to Olajide, Sofolahan died suddenly on March 23, 2018 and “an attempt to elect a successor on June 27, 2018 ended in chaos. “It was therefore decided on the same day to appoint ‘An Interim President’, unconstitutional though, to oversee the affairs of the council briefly – duration or tenure was not specified, for tempers to cool before the election of a new president. “Retired Colonel Agbede, who had never been a member of the National Executive Council (NEC) before was appointed in the belief that he was not likely to be ambitious and will therefore be able to impartially supervise the election of the new president. “Unfortunately and unbelievably, he became so ambitious that he has resisted every attempt to elect a new president. “He had unwholesome actions, including bringing uniformed bouncers to terrorise members at a meeting. “On another occasion, he brought miscreants and thugs to disrupt the meeting of state chairmen. “At a point, he got five members to pronounce him president and he had insisted he remains president without due process.” But speaking on the phone, Agbede described the submission of Olajide as false and distorted information. He argued the elders of YCE chose him as Interim President and later confirmed him after noticing his achievements in office within a short period. He said the secretary was at loggerheads with him because the elders rejected his entreaties to be made President. This, he reasoned, was because the secretary general had taken YCE to court once, adding Olajide ‘is free to take the council to court the second time.” Agbede stated “the elders are united in their decision” and have cautioned the council leadership from talking to reporters on Olajide so as not to expose his alleged misdeeds in the running of affairs of the council.