The leadership of Action Alliance (AA) yesterday said that Dr. Tunji Abayomi is not member of the party in Ondo State. In a statement, the party said: The Executive Council of the Action Alliance (AA), led by the National  Vice-Chairman (South-West), Hon. Adewole Joshua, wishes to inform the people of Ondo State that our dear party does not recognize the people parading themselves as our party’s candidates. “The public should note that Mr Olatunji Adeoye Felder, Mr Tunji Abayomi, Hon. Friday Olemija, Dr. Segun Ategbole and others are not candidates of our party in Ondo State. “We are aware the impostors parading themselves as candidates of our party have the backing of the Governor of Ondo State, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. “However, the truth of the matter is that the governor has no power to interfere with the internal affairs of our party, AA. Nobody can impose candidates on the AA. For this reason and others, the impostors are merely wasting their time. It added: “As you are aware, the impostors are not products of any primary election that was conducted by the Action Alliance in Ondo State. “In fact, Mr Tunji Abayomi, Mr Olatunji Adeoye Felder, Hon. Friday Olemija, Dr, Segun Ategbole and others are not bona fide members of Action Alliance. Nobody can come into our party through the backdoor. It is not acceptable. The AA shall not accept it. “Therefore, if you are not a member of AA, you cannot emerge as candidate of AA for the general election. We warn the impostors to stop parading themselves as candidates of our party forthwith.  The Action Alliance wishes to inform the general public that the authentic candidates of our party for the 2019 general elections are Mrs Risikat Adenike Bolarinwa as senatorial candidate of Action Alliance for Ondo South Senatorial District and Mr Vincent Kayode Adurewa as senatorial candidate of Action Alliance for Ondo North Senatorial District. “The authentic candidates emerged through adoption method on the 2nd of October, 2018 at the level of the State Think-Thank Committee in accordance with the provisions of the our party’s constitution.”    