Timi Shadrack from Okunbiri community, Sagbama, Bayelsa State, no longer drinks contaminated river water. She goes to a solar-powered water project to fetch her water. Water from the solar-powered borehole is potable. Therefore, she no longer bothers about water-borne diseases, which were rife when the river surrounding her community was the only source of water. But Timi did not know how the water project came to her community. Though there is a signpost indicating the source of the project, she is not literate enough to read the writings on the signboard. But she was excited when she was told that the project came from President Muhammadu Buhari. Buhari brought the project through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. It was executed under the rural development component of the ministry. And the Minister of State, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, who hails from Bayelsa State, is in charge of the projects. “I am happy that the Federal Government remembered our community for these rural projects,” Timi said. “We never knew that the Federal Government can solve our local problems for us. We had no water on this community before. We drank from the river. River water is not clean but we had no choice. We suffered diseases. But now, since this water project was done in our community, we no longer suffer such diseases,” she added. The borehole is not the only rural project in Okunbiri. Lokpobiri’s ministry lit up the community with solar streetlight. Alex Tontonye, who is the Vice-Chairman of the community, is happy with the streetlight. He said the solar streetlight chased darkness out of the community. He said: “Heineken Lokpobiri has been able to bring this solar light in our community. We are grateful because we have never experienced this kind of project before. The water works is also another laudable project. We go there to fetch water. “We are happy with what we have seen on ground. The projects met us at our point of need. There is no more darkness in our community. We need more of the light too. We are also begging the government to connect our community to road.” The minister and his team toured the rural communities in the state to inspect grassroots projects. Along the same axis, they visited Toru-Ebeni and Akaddei communities. The ministry repeated streetlight and water projects in Toru-Ebeni and Akaddei communities. The people of the coastal communities were happy as they trooped out en-masse to receive the team. The minister and his team inspected a 15km rural road being executed by the ministry. The road is designed to link three communities of Toru-Ebeni, Akaddei and Ayama-Ebeni. The road begins at the Toru-Ebeni Bridge and goes round the three communities. When completed, it will facilitate commerce, farming, reduce hours and transport cost the people currently spend on water transport. The contract was awarded to a local contractor, Gloria Itoku. The contractor, who was in the minister’s team, said the project was part of the rural development component of the ministry. She said the project was awarded below N1bn. On the progress of the road project, she said: “We are still on the earth work and hopefully in two weeks’ time, we will start the stone basing. We hope to complete the job in two months. The contract sum is less than a billion. We have done eight kilometers sand filling. “We have a peculiar weather here. It rains. But by March or April we should be through with the road. Our terrain is the only challenge. We use too much sand to construct road here.” Itoku described as a welcome development, the decision of the ministry to award the job to her local firm. “This is the local content we are talking about. We are very happy. It is a welcome development,” she said. A youth from Toru-Ebeni, Charles Edure, praised Buhari and the minster for the rural development projects. He was particularly happy about the road construction, the water project and solar streetlights in his community. He said: “We are happy about the development that is going on in the community. There is massive construction from the bridge point to three communities. We also have the solar light and solar water in the community. “We can see the dividends of democracy under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari through our minister. The road will boost the communities economically, socially and otherwise. It will attract more development to the community.” Lokpobiri took time to inspect and inaugurate projects in each of the communities he visited. He drank from the solar boreholes to prove that the water was potable. He also inaugurated electrification projects in Sagbama and Ebelebiri. He seized the opportunity to solicit votes for Buhari and other candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: “One of the key projects we do in the ministry is rural roads, another one is rural electrification and the other one is rural water supply.”