Parents have key roles to play in laying solid foundation for their children. This can  be made possible through value orientation, which helps support the children’s natural development. Director-General, Quality Control, Lagos State Ministry of Education Mrs Ronke Soyombo, is optimistic that once this is done, it would make the child more flexible to acquiring knowledge at nursery level, and ultimately make the caregivers’ job a lot easier. Soyombo addressed parents in Ikorodu during the Aid to Life workshop by the Lagos State government in conjunction with Foundation Montessori Education in Nigeria (FMEN) Aid to Life is an initiative of the Association of Montessori International (AMI) in Amsterdam,of which FMEN is an affiliate. The initiative aims to support every child’s natural development. Addressing parents at the Ikorodu Local Government Education Authority; Soyombo underscored the theme of the workshop, ‘Effective parenting’, saying it is to again re-emphasies parents’ noble roles. She reminded parents in attendance that Montessori education is simply how to make children independent, how they can be empowered to do things themselves. Though Montessori education could be an expensive venture, Soyombo said parents could improvise by deploying local contents to educate the child, especially when such tutoring is done using the language of the environment. She said: “When we talk of foundation age, we mean age 0 to 6 and for us to get it right, we need to carry the parents along. They need to inculcate good values in their children. With that, we can be able to build academics into it as well. She continued:”When you say some children are not performing in their education, it is possible such children have been spoon-fed for too long. We, therefore, need the cooperation of our mothers, they’ve got to play their roles in inculcating values into our children at foundation stage. If a child is not given a solid foundation, he will be forced to read when he or she gets in to primary school. With that, such  a child can only decode but not comprehend, which is part of the problem we are having at present. We parents are too carried away chasing money, thereby forgetting the education of our kids’’. Soyombo also advised parents to speak well of Nigeria, thereby giving the children a hope for the future, adding that parents must  tell them many distinguished personalities that the country boasts of. Coordinator/Trustee Aid to life Mrs Yinka Awobo Pearse, said, regardless of the level of parents’ literacy, Montessori education could be invented via everyday interaction with the child. “Children below age three need to develop their movement, communication, and independent skills. Once they are equipped with those skills, it will help them to become better learners when they eventually get into Nursery 1,” she said. “When you bathe your child, you can ask him, ‘How many times do I scrub your back?” When you take him to school and you climb the stairs, you can ask him to count how many stairs you both leapt.  You can show him two buckets and ask him to tell you which is bigger or smaller’’. Earlier, Chairperson of FMEN Bimpec Pogoson, said the workshop was inspired by the success of its maiden edition which held with parents in Agege in September last year. Two of the parents in attendance, Mrs Fasakin Olamide and Mrs Fabian Nnena Ogwa, shared their experiences. “I have learned not to use foul language on my husband particularly in the presence of my little children, because the child will learn the language and that will be his first pronouncement once he gets into school,” said Mrs Olamide. “I was made to understand that this workshop is not about writing and writing but skill development of my child,” noted Mrs Ogwa.  “I also learn that a child under three years can learn three languages and cope, all I need is improved investment on them.