Imo state governor and Senator-elect for Imo West, Rochas Okorocha, has cautioned against any attempt by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and politicians to rig the governorship election slated for March 9. The governor who was almost denied the Imo West Senatorial seat by the Collation Officer, Professor Ibeawuchi Francis, after garnering the highest vote, warned that the people will resist any attempt to rig the governorship election. Okorocha who addressed journalists shortly after been declared the winner of the Senatorial election, said that the action of the Collation Officer was embarrassment to INEC and the institution he represents. According to him, “what baffles me is the attitude of the returning officer in this our exercise. It looks to me that there was a script been played out, which is coming to me as a rude shock, especially the manner elections here have been conducted in Imo State. “May I put it straight that if election was conducted the way it should be and in line with our Constitution and electoral act, we would have won the entire election. What we see here is a lot of people changing the rule and doing certain things to favour a particular party in the State”. The governor added that, “I find it a bit surprising because right now as I speak results are not been collated the way it should be. The centers provided by the Constitution is not been used rather the INEC boss is making other arrangements not really clear to me, because as the result gets there, it is been changed. As I speak to you now, there are attempts to change the President’s results. “On my own election, after having recorded victory in 9 out of the 12 Local Government Areas that were announced, we heard that they are now trying to move the result sheets to Owerri but when we inquired why, the man said he is tired and doesn’t feel safe, when nobody was threatening him. At the end of it, we discovered he doesn’t have the declaration sheet. I wonder where this is taking us to. I hope INEC would change this system because we will resist them if they try it in the next election”. The governor continued that, “they should examine the Returning Officer to know his mental state. If he is not mental, then he must be a criminal to ever think of that. How could someone ask you to change the result of an election he has already won? My score is above 90,000 and the nearest to me is slightly above half of it, when you combine both Jones and Izunaso’s votes. They can’t match or contest against me in Imo State not to talk of Orlu zone. Am I even supposed to contest for senate in Orlu, I never campaigned but only declared and campaigned for 3 days. “I ask the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner here to quickly correct these anomalies. The Returning Officer is a bloody liar who may be acting a script. I enjoin him to return the money he may have collected from those who understand only rigging in election”.  