The Federal Ministry of Health, in collaboration with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), has concluded plans to carry out a pilot intervention programme in Lagos and Kano states to address low tuberculosis (TB) detection. The Head of Advocacy Communication and Social Mobilisation (ACSM) unit of the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Program (NTBLCP) in the ministry, Mrs. Itohowo Uko, made this known at a workshop in Nasarawa. She said the decision to choose Lagos and Kano was based on data and their urban areas. The programme is being funded by the USAID through the Breakthrough Action project to show the value it will add to the sector. “We decided to deviate from the conventional way to go into the communities to interact with them and understand the situation from the community members’ perspective; not just sitting in Abuja and developing messages that might not really speak to the needs of the people. “In Lagos, we will be working in Ajeromi and Badagry local government areas (LGAs) where they have high TB burden. We will also be working in two LGAs in Kano. The pilot is going to last for 12 weeks, after which we will do a survey to see what impact it has added. We will also take data from various DOTS centres to see the rate of TB reporting and case findings in those centres. Then after two weeks, we will go back to see if there has been an increase in the number of cases reported in those LGAs from the DOTS centres. With that, we will be able to say whether the interventions are worth expanding,”she said. On funding, Mrs. Uko explained that apart from resources the ministry gets from the government (which is not enough), the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, was keen to have in-country financing through the public-private mix (PPM) where the private sector and philanthropists were being encouraged to come and contribute to the fight against TB in Nigeria. According to Mr. Joseph Edoh, a Senior Programme Officer for TB at Breakthrough Action, TB findings in Nigeria have been very low over a long time, adding that this is happening because of programming, reach of information and awareness. “Stigma has also contributed to the low case finding that we have been having so far. The approach we are adopting is a human-centre design (HCD), which is using the user perspective to look at the situation of TB across the country. And the HCD has the intent phase is where Breakthrough Action Nigeria as well as the donor agency – USAID, NTBLCP – agreed that the main challenge that we want to address is the low TB case detection across the country. “The next phase is to understand the problem, which is the discovery phase. It helps us to understand the problem from the patient’s, provider’s and expert’s perspective who design programmes.This leads us to the third phase, which is the design and test phase. This is where we generate ideas, test them among people in which the ideas are designed to help improve cases around. “We went through a process of reiteration; then we came up with the final five interventions that we are taking to the next phase. The next phase is the feasibility; some people call it piloting. Here, we are going to test the strength and any other weakness that this approach has so that we can recommend for scale up nationally,” he said. Edoh further explained that it is obvious that funding gap for TB is so wide, and majority of the funding is donor-funded. He added that the NTBLCP will improve in her reach and activities if it gets more funding. “In this case, we will be looking at the private sector coming in and supporting the whole TB case programmes in the country. For policy, I think some are already on the ground and a lot has been done in these areas, but we also need the buy-in of legislators to come up with policies that will help people with TB by considering the human right context of not forcing people. But when they become a public health risk, we need to get these people to get treatment so that they will not put every one of us at risk,” he advised.