Forum of Lagos State Sports Federations Association Chairmen has resolved to work together to develop a strategic document that will enhance sports development in the state. Speaking yesterday after their meeting at the Teslim Balogun, Chairman of Chairmen, Seyi Akinwunmi, who is also the Chairman of the Lagos State Football Association (LSFA) said the it has become necessary for the federation chairmen to work together to foster growth of sports in the state. Akinwunmi stated that working has a unit would help the body proffer solution to the myriad of problem bedeviling the sports in the state, while assuring that a working document in accordance with the government policy, would be developed to help the sports association, coaches, athletes and other stakeholders. The LSFA boss and his colleagues also called on the Lagos State Sports Council to allow the different associations take over their facilities, noting that the current arrangement which allows some officials to oversee and approve the facilities for use would hinder development. He opined that putting the facilities under the association would help them plan and host their competitions without hindrance. The attendees also agreed that more facilities should be provided, coaches should be trained, schools sports should encouraged, while competition should be held periodically to help in the discovery of talents. He said committees would be set up to ensure that their activities are well articulated and help the body realise their ambition of taking sports to the zenith. Chairman of the LSSC, Kweku Tandoh commended the association chairmen for the move and praised them for their commitment to sports development in the state. He enjoined them to tailor their activities in line with the government policy. He also said that the LSSC would partner the associations to develop their various sport but enjoined the association chairmen to become innovative in their way of sourcing sponsors that would help in repositioning their various sports. Kweku noted that the emergence of credible associations chairmen has greatly reduced his involvement in the running of the federation. He also urged that the body to develop coaching education, while urging them to make Lagos a pool of talent for the country.