The rise of and acceptance social media platforms could either make or mar businesses, an information communications technology (ICT) expert, has warned. Speaking during an event hosted by Redwire Marketing Group in partnership with Social Media Week at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, the Chief Operating Officer (COO), Syracuse Digital, Sunkanmi Ola, warned that social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, WhatsApp which have become veritable digital marketing tools are double-edged swords because of their capability to either grow or kill businesses. Redwire Marketing Consulting is an insights-driven marketing and brand consultancy committed to helping its clients build and sustain transformational brands and marketing programmes. Speaking on the theme of the forum: Measuring the Returns on Social Media Investment, Ola said while traditional marketing appeals to local audience, difficult to measure, expensive to run, static because there is no way to interact and get feedback, he said digital marketing has an infinite audience-appeals to local and global audience, allows for customer interaction, viral and measurable. He said for businesses to plan influencer marketing campaigns, there must be first research and discovery; strategy and planning; identification and engagement; campaign management; measuring and reporting; and finally maintenance. He urged businesses to be careful about how they manage crises on social media, warning that if the right approach was not deployed, it could worsen the situation. Ola said the first step was to detect what the crisis was, listen on the appropriate platforms, identify the negative key words and act swiftly before the matter went viral. He said those involve as well as the issue and why it happened must be identified and resolved amicably. According to him, response to crisis must also be in a thoughtful, polite and transparent manner, adding that precaution must be taken so that there will not be a repeat of what happened. He urged small businesses leveraging social media platforms for brand exposition to keep listening and take note on feedbacks received through interactions. The event, which was independently held under the Social Media Week also featured a panelist session consisting of professionals from various endeavors who have leveraged social media and other digital channels in building brands and generating significant business revenue. Doyinsola Ajayi of Redwire Marketing Group said the purpose of the event was to provide key insight and educate the audience – comprising leaders in the marketing industry, business persons and young professionals – on ways of maximising social media marketing budgets to get the best returns, in terms of engagement, financial profitability and overall brand value.