The Nigeria Civil Service Union (NCSU) has asked its members not to vote for governors and other candidates who are anti-labour and anti-people in the general elections. The Union affirmed Comrade Lawrence Amaechi as its president and dissolved the caretaker committee. Rising from its Special National Delegates Conference, the union called on its members and Nigerians to vote wisely. The  National Industrial Court (NIC) had ordered the immediate past leadership of the union to back their successors, an action which was complied with, before the leadership stepped down, following the expiration of their tenure and a caretaker committee, when the union went on appeal. The conference confirmed Comrade Idris Yahaya Ndayako as the union’s general secretary. In a communique signed by the union’s President Comrade Lawrence Amaechi and General Secretary Comrade Yahaya Ndayako, the union commended the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) leadership in ensuring that the new minimum wage of N30,000 bill is passed into law. The conference also elected  Comrade Kabiru  Gaya as the new national auditor, following the resignation of Comrade Aliyu Mutazu who had retired from the Civil Service of Katsina State. The communique said: “On the other hand, Special National Delegates’ Conference reiterates NEC’s directive that an impostor, Mr. M. Z. Nzidee who had been since expelled from the union, must be prosecuted from wherever he is hiding for his recent act of hooliganism, culminating into vandalism of the  National Secretariat, stealing huge sums of money and molesting Staff of  the union with his collaborators. “Special NDC decried the activities of politicians as relate the February 2019 General Elections, particularly on their campaign strategies. “Conference reiterated its position that governors that are anti-labour and anti-people must be voted against. It called on its members and Nigerians to vote wisely in defence of democracy “The NEC passed a vote of confidence on the national Leadership of the union led by Comrade Amaechi L. U.  for its commitment, initiatives and purposeful Leadership since assumption of leadership of the union”.