Mrs Titi Atiku-Abubakar, wife of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, on Wednesday urged Nigerians to vote her husband on Feb. 16 to move the country forward. She made the call in Lagos while addressing PDP faithful and residents at an interactive meeting of the party. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that prominent members including a former PDP Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George; the party’s governorship candidate, Mr Jimi Agbaje; and his running-mate, Mrs Haleemat Busari, attended the meeting. A former governor of Ogun State and Director-General of Atiku Campaign Organisation, Otunba Gbenga Daniel was also among hundreds of party faithful present. Mrs Abubakar said the task to reposition the country and set her on the path of prosperity required somebody with the right capacity like her husband. The candidate’s wife said her husband had the experience and the passion to further the country ‘s progress, adding that a vote for Atiku is a vote for a better Nigeria. “Atiku is what Nigeria needs right now to move her forward. My husband is experienced and he has the capacity to improve the fortunes of the country. “He is an educationist, a philanthropist, a businessman and a lover of the masses. Atiku is committed to a new Nigeria. So, on Feb. 16, I urge you to vote my husband to end all the sufferings in the country,” she said. She decried the high rate of poverty in the country, saying the situation had turned many Nigerians, especially young people, to crime and prostitution. Abubakar blamed the situation on what she called absence of the right policies and programmes to create jobs and empower the youths and women. The candidate’s wife said her husband would fulfil the promise to run an all-inclusive government to create opportunities for all segments of the society, especially youths and women. “Atiku knows the youths and the women of this country are suffering and he wants to put an end to all the sufferings. “Atiku cares about young people and women and he will create opportunities to make their lives better. “For the women, he said he is going to give us 30 per cent in his cabinet and that he is going to give the youths 40 per cent. “Our youths are jobless, our ladies are roaming the streets, everywhere you go, what you see is suffering and this must come to an end, and for this to come to an end, we need to vote the man Atiku to get Nigeria working again,” she said. According to her, Nigeria witnessed great leaps in the economy when her husband was in charge of the economy as Vice-President to former President, Olusegun Obasanjo. She said some of the economic legacies of Obasanjo/Atiku government like banking consolidation, pension reforms and telecommunication revolution were still standing. The candidate’s wife said her husband would also bring his business acumen to bear on the economy to create jobs and prosperity. She said Atiku would unify the country as he was a detribalised Nigerian, not given to bigotry or nepotism. Abubakar urged Nigerians to reject the All Progressives Congress (APC), saying citizens were better off in the 16years of PDP than the three and half years of the present government. She said that Agbaje was committed to a better state and urged residents to vote him along other PDP candidates. The candidate’s wife commended George for facilitating the meeting, saying the chieftain had always demonstrated commitment to the progress of the party. Speaking on the chances of PDP in the state, Daniel said victory was sure for the party with Atiku as presidential candidate. “By the time Atiku wins the presidential election on Feb 16, the people of the state would automatically vote for Agbaje in March,’’ he said. Daniel urged Nigerians to use the opportunity of the election to vote Atiku to deliver what he called the right leadership.