….Ajegunle, Somolu, Lagos Island affected, police arrest 28 Three persons were on Saturday feared killed and several others injured after violence broke out at several polling units in Okota, Lagos Mainland. Among those killed, The Nation gathered were a barber identified as Peter shot and stabbed to death at Powerline, Canal Estate in Okota as well as an Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) leader in the area known as Demola. The third person whose identity was not ascertained, it was gathered, was stabbed to death at Last Bus Stop, Ago. While Peter was said to have been killed by armed thugs led by one Onimama said to have stormed the area to disrupt election around 3pm; Demola, our Correspondent gathered, was stoned to death around 5pm by angry residents who were denied their rights to vote by the thugs. According to residents who protested the obstruction by the thugs, the hoodlums started disrupting the exercise there as early as 8am. They blamed the police and soldiers for not acting swiftly, insisting that they had told security personnel about the presence of strange faces and hoodlums in their midst. “There are three units in one here. I don’t know the name but this is Powerline and this is where all the residents in this estate vote. Those guys were armed with guns and cutlass. We had policemen and soldiers here and I personally told them that those guys seated under the umbrella there were thugs and not voters in this area. “We told them to do their job by chasing them away or arrest them but surprisingly, the security people left. They only left one police van here and the policemen inside had just stick. “As soon as those policemen and soldiers left, these boys just started scattering everywhere. They destroyed the ballot boxes but we were able to secure the presidential ballot box because we had voted. “They killed one barber, injured many people here. We called the police and soldiers for reinforcement. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials ran away for their lives. Soldiers later came to rescue them. “But why we are angry now is that the INEC doesn’t want to continue our election. They said they will not count our votes here and we have refused. There are police and soldiers here, so, let them count the votes of our presidential election. At least, they could not scatter that ones,” said one of the residents. At polling unit 023, Ago Palace Way, already thumb printed ballot papers were razed but the voters chased the thugs and held one of them who made to flee on his motorcycle. The motorcycle was burnt and the suspected thug was beaten to stupor before he was handed over to the police, the voters told The Nation. It was gathered that the thugs who started obstructing the process in these areas as early as 8am, ambushed some of the vehicles conveying the RACs to the polling units and in other cases went straight to the polling units to wreak havoc. At polling unit 016 Fredrick Fasheun Street, Ago Palace Way, residents said thugs who stormed the polling unit assaulted a man that attempted to video them while they were forcing people to vote for a particular party or be killed. At polling unit 33, Ajibola Aliko Street, a woman was slapped by the thugs for challenging them, while at polling units 27 and 28, the voters fled for fear of their lives. Polling units in Ago Palace Way, Okota, Aguda-Surulere, Bariga in Somolu, Lagos Island, Ajao Estate, Isolo, Oshodi, Ijora and Mosafejo in Ajegunle were also affected. At Somolu, the police arrested nine suspects said to have been molesting voters with charms; 10 were apprehended over the incident at Ago Palace Way, six in Epe, three at Ajao Estate, while soldiers arrested two persons at Surulere in Aguda. One of the suspects Yusuf said a politician identified as Eunuch Ruben asked him to come to a polling unit for an unknown reason. Our correspondent who was on convoy patrol of the state led by Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) David Folawiyo and Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu observed that the exercise was peaceful in most parts of the state.