Pregnancy is a natural human occurrence. Intending mothers look forward to having their children and becoming mothers. In general, pregnancy and motherhood are occasions that should just occur normally. However, in some occasions, the joy of the family and even of the newborn may not be so joyful because of unfortunate events that follow pregnancy and motherhood. Motherhood is meant to be a time of joy and happiness for the mother and child. But, about 814 mothers die for every 100,000 of overall mothers in every year in Nigeria. Put in some more salient perspective, just a little short of 60,000 women die of pregnancy-related disorders in Nigeria every year. Doctors call these deaths, maternal mortality rates. Nigeria is in the top 10 of such high and sad deaths behind war-torn Somalia and Yemen. Even if the pregnancy had gone uneventful, the days and months following childbirth may still pose a serious threat to the lives and happiness of the mother. Thus, in this article and the ones to follow, we will take a look at maternal mortality (specifically, death of mother that is due to bleeding as relating to pregnancy) and how you and the healthcare team can help reduce the scourge of our mothers, sisters, aunties, daughters and wives dying of pregnancy-related disorders: what is actually natural event. Among nations, Nigeria is peculiar in its human capital care and development. Nations with deep religious conviction as or seemingly more than Nigeria have significant lower maternal deaths. So are countries with significant lesser human and natural resources than Nigeria. Therefore, some of the causes of high maternal mortality in Nigeria is in general specific to Nigeria itself. For this week, we will take a close look at the causes of maternal mortality. In subsequent week to come, we will examine some solutions to the problem and the crucial roles that you the readers, the pregnant women and the family can play to complement the efforts of the healthcare practitioners.  Causes of maternal mortality  For this week, we will focus on Post-Partum Heamorrhage or PPH. Simply put, PPH means bleeding following childbirth. No other event causes our mothers to lose their lives as much as PPH, as 25 per cent of all maternal deaths are due to PPH. Yet, 90 per cent of PPH can be treated with some available medications. Blood is the lifeline of every one. A woman who had just delivered a baby – by whatever means – is an already tired woman. To lose blood as an additional occurrence adds a significant risk to the life of the mother. When a pint of blood is lost, especially in a woman who was anaemic prior to labour, is a step gone too far. A woman who lost two pints of blood, especially as is often the case in an anaemic woman, indicates extreme danger to the woman. Apart from the amount of blood that is lost, the time of the occurrence of the PPH also matters. If the bleeding occurs in the first 24 hours of childbirth, the PPH is primary PPH. If the bleeding occurs from 24 hours after childbirth to up to three months, then such is secondary PPH. This demarcation is important so that, appropriate cause and attention can be given to the bleeding as the case may be. Thus, it is crucial that, fathers, mothers and family should urgently return to their doctor when bleeding happens following a pregnancy. It does not matter if the pregnancy was carried to term or not. Does it count if either the pregnancy was unwanted and terminated or the pregnancy ended on its own naturally? The crucial issue is that women should not bleed too much or die of pregnancy related bleeding. That said, you the reader may ask: what causes PPH in the first instance?  Well, there are many causes of PPH. Chief among the causes are infection of the womb. This infection when it occurs following childbirth is called endometritis. This can be recognised especially if the woman has offensive vaginal discharge prior to delivery/termination of pregnancy or within the first 24 hours of such delivery. This is even more likely if the pregnancy had been illegally terminated with poor care for the mother. It can also be the case, if the pregnancy had resulted in a stillbirth or even a term pregnancy. Other causes of PPH include when the afterbirth (placenta) of the fetus (baby in the womb) is retained. This event is called retained placenta. If left unattended, the woman is in danger of bleeding to death. Thus the placenta must be removed as soon as possible without causing further danger to the already, long-suffering woman. Next week, we will deal with other causes of PPH and thereafter, discuss your role as a healthcare consumer.