One of the greatest issues that engaged the polity last week was the Presidential directive on ballot box snatching. President Muhammadu Buhari had last week Monday ordered security agencies to ‘ruthlessly’ deal with ballot box snatchers and trouble makers during last Saturday’s Presidential, Senate and House of Representatives elections across the country. A ballot box can be described as a temporarily sealed container, usually a square box, and sometimes a tamper-resistant bag, with a narrow slot in the top sufficient to accept a ballot paper in an election. But the ballot box is constructed in a way that it prevents anyone from accessing the votes cast until the close of the voting period when it is sorted out and counted. There is no doubt that there would be distortion in the final total election result for the polling unit, the state and the nation at large, wherever such ballot box is snatched or destroyed before its content is sorted out and counted. Such wicked action could also lead to the declaration of wrong candidates as winners, against the will of the people. To ensure they eventually win elections, dubious and desperate politicians were in the habit of masterminding and sending their foot soldiers to snatch and destroy ballot boxes, especially in the areas their opponents may likely have an edge. But to ensure that the vote of every voter counts at the end of the elections, the President gave the ‘ruthless’ directive at the All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus meeting in Abuja last Monday. At the opening session of the meeting, Buhari said “I do not expect anybody to cause any disturbance. The security agencies have identified hot spots and flashpoints and should be prepared to move. We have made as much arrangement as possible for them as much as the country can afford. “Anybody who decides to snatch ballot boxes or lead thugs to disturb the process, maybe that will be the last unlawful action you will take. “We have directed the military and other security agents to be ruthless. We are not going to be blamed that we want to rig elections. “I want Nigerians to be respected and let them vote whoever they want across the parties. I am not afraid of that. I went round the 36 states and the FCT and I think I have enough support across the country… “So, I want to warn anybody who thinks he has enough influence in his locality to lead a body of thugs to snatch ballot boxes or disturb the voting system, he will do it at the expense of his own life.” he stated But those opposed to the directive felt that the President was inviting anarchy. They also felt that anybody caught snatching ballot box should not be killed but made to face the laws of the land. Topmost of this group was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, who spoke at the party’s 84th National Executive Committee (NEC) last Wednesday in Abuja. They urged the security agencies not to obey the President’s directive. Secondus said “By that directive, ordering soldiers to kill our citizens without recourse to the law and with impunity, the President has unwittingly given license to APC leaders to carry military personnel on Saturday. “The agenda of that directive is clear; to scare away voters and agents, that we have directed to defend their votes, so as to give way to a military protected political thugs to come into the polling booths, and implement their result replacement strategy. “The President’s body language alongside that of his party hierarchy appeared remorseless for the damage done to our democracy or the huge private and public resources wasted by the inability of APC hawks acting as contractors and consultants to allow INEC to operate. He said, “I can indeed make the conclusion, that from inception, President Buhari, was not ready for free and fair elections, otherwise he would easily have signed the amended Electoral Act, which would have enabled peaceful and hitch free elections in 2019. “President Buhari’s disregard for institutions of states, which started with the attempt of the Executive to hijack the Legislature, has continued unabated, with the illegal suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Walter Onnoghen, and the swearing in of an acting CJN.” Senate President and Director General of Atiku/Obi Campaign Organisation, Bukola Saraki, last Thursday said that the directive has shown that President Buhari is not a democrat, rather a dictator. Former President Goodluck Jonathan also added his voice against extra-judicial killings in the country. Jonathan said “Anytime someone dies extra-judicially it reduces the integrity of the country. So, if our security personnel are interested in peace, especially during this electioneering, then they must do everything to suppress extra-judicial killings; because when one person is killed unlawfully, it affects everyone.” But the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu corrected the wrong impression created on the President’s directive. He said “I was in that meeting; the President was just reinforcing the fact that if you are out there snatching ballot boxes, and causing destructions, you are at risk of your own life. “Whatever happens to you; no President will give an order that his own citizens should be shot summarily, No! No, its okay, emotions are running high these days. Any individual including myself can be misinterpreted. “These are not his words; he is a law abiding person and he understands categorically and clearly what rule of law is and the lives of individual citizens, that he is in that office to protect. “Now, let me run this; he has been fighting Boko Haram, kidnappers and all these before this election, did you hear him asking them to be shot and executed summarily? If he has gone through that in the last five years, please give him a benefit of the doubt.” he said The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, also pointed out that the PDP was becoming jittery based on their reactions to the President’s directive. He said “This sounds like members of the opposition, specifically the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who have perfected plans to rig the elections and to snatch ballot boxes. “They can tell that President Buhari is not prepared to tolerate their antics this time around, and they are afraid. They have shown their intent. “Let’s just have free and fair elections and no one need worry about anything. Snatching ballot boxes often entails putting the lives of innocent Nigerians at risk. “About 10 years ago, evidence was brought before an election tribunal from one of the states in North Central of the gruesome killing of 26 prospective voters by ballot box snatchers. “Their modus operandi is well known. They storm election venues in commando style, overwhelm the law-enforcement agents and seize ballot boxes leaving a trail of death and injury. “Anyone who dares to put the lives of innocent citizens at risk in their desperation to rig elections must be prepared for the possibility of losing their own lives because our security agents will certainly not stand by, clap for them and watch them kill and maim.” he stated Despite the presidential directive on snatching of ballot boxes, there were however reported cases last Saturday of snatching of ballot boxes in parts of  the country. It is hoped that by now the 2019 Presidential, Senate and House of Representatives elections ballot boxes across the country would have been allowed to majorly determine the true will of the people. Those boxes snatched and the boxes burnt in some areas last Saturday are hoped won’t significantly affect the total outcome of the elections results. The ballot boxes should also be allowed to freely determine ‘who and who’ becomes state governor and member of the various State House of Assembly in the next sets of elections.