•Police warned to stop accompanying firm’s workers Residents of Mushin, Lagos have drawn the battle line with Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), over bills. They asked the firm to give them prepaid meters or they will not pay more than N4000 per house monthly for electricity. They threntened to stop further payment, if EKEDC  failed to meet their demand. These are contained communique issued at the end of their meeting with their representative in the House of Representatives, Bolaji Yusuf Ayinla, and his counterpart  in the House of Assembly, Olayiwola Sobur, aka Omititi. The meeting, held yesterday at the Mushin Local Government Secretariat, was to resolve the long standing fend between residents and EKEDC. Speaking on the resident’s  behalf, Secretary of the Citizens Group, Mr. Osinowo Adekunle, narrated their ordeal in EKEDC’s hands. He said the firm had disconnected supply to Daleko Market for about one year. Adekunle alleged that EKEDC officials apprehended youths who complained about poor services. He said: “The company also facilitated the arrest of an old man and woman, accusing them of beating up their officials. They went to the home of Mr & Mrs Muniru Lawal at 14, Yusuf Street, Papa Ajao. Baba and Mama are old people, aged 78 and 76. The two old citizens were arrested and arraigned. They were later sent to Kirikiri prison for committing no offence. How can EKEDC claim that the two old citizens beat up its official?” Adekunle said the solution to the “over-billing” was the metering of all the houses, adding that if the company failed to do this, the community would not pay more than N4,000 per house monthly. He said besides supplying customers prepaid meters, EKEDC should write off accumulated bills and reconnect Daleko and Amu Plank markets. The secretary said the police should not accompany EKEDC officials on duty. Alternatively, he said, their transformers should be attached to certificated meters, and the meters read monthly to determine the actual usage. Mushin Local Government Chairman,  Emmanuel Bamgboye, said the council had made efforts to resolve the matter, noting that there was a time he led the residents to protest at the House of Assembly at Alausa, Ikeja. He said EKEDC was finding it difficult to meet customer’s needs, stressing that the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, had promised the community prepaid meters. Sobur, who convened the meeting, said: “My office has received complaints and petitions from my constituents in respect of EKEDC and its officials bordering on lack of prepaid meters, crazy and estimated billings. “The objective of this meeting is to provide a platform for stakeholders to deliberate on the challenges faced by consumers in Mushin and provide a solution.” Ayinla, popularly called BYA, assured the residents that he would table the matter before the House of Representatives in Abuja. He said Fashola had promised to look into the matter. 