Traditional rulers under the aegis of the National Executive Council of Traditional Rulers of Oil Minerals Producing Communities of Nigeria (TROMPCON) has urged the Federal Government to allow the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to be independent and operate within the ambit of the Act establishing it. Oba Obafemi Ogbaro, the Odoka of Ogbaro kingdom in Ilaje Local Government Area of Ondo State, and National Secretary of TROMPCON, stated this while speaking with reporters. He felicitated with the new management of NDDC on the appointment of its new Acting Managing Director, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa; the new acting Executive Director of Finance and Administration, Mr Chris Amadi, and Mr. Adjogbe Samuel, acting Executive Director of Projects. Ogbaro while reaffirming the association’s support for the new board, challenged it to reposition the commission by ensuring proper monitoring and completion of all projects in the region. “We also appeal to the new board to ensure prompt payment to contractors who borrowed money to complete their projects.  The bottlenecks in mode of payment should be a thing of the past and stakeholders particularly the traditional rulers of the mandate areas, should be carried along,” he said. The TROMPCON scribe also lauded the transparent and commitment of the current board and management of NDDC, declaring the association’s support in partnering with the commission towards developing the Niger Delta region. Ogbaro said the association was impressed with the strategies adopted by the Commission’s Board. “There is a different spirit here that has increased the tempo of activities geared towards fast tracking regional development. We are excited by the practical approach of the new board and management and we are ready to cooperate with NDDC to do more for the people. “The commission is committed to doing things differently and the money contributed to the NDDC fund must be used in a responsible, transparent and efficient manner, and it starts from the budgetary process,” he said. Ogbaro said the new management has demonstrated good intention that they owed it to Nigerians, the people of the Niger Delta, stakeholders of the Niger Delta and the Federal Government to ensure true regional development, adding that the new spirit is a necessary foundation for progress.