Worried by the dearth of professionalism and competency in the education sector, the Federal Government and stakeholders in education have been urged to scale up the training of educators. Vicar of St. Augustine Anglican Church, Anthony Village (Diocese of Lagos West), Venerable Adelowo Adesina, made the call at a one-day teachers’ workshop organised by the church. It was themed: ‘’Contemporary teaching competencies’ (CTC)’’. Venerable  Adesina said: “Teachers are indispensable in human capital development efforts of any nation. They are charged with the responsibility of transmitting organised learning experiences to learners. ‘’Generally, if Nigeria must move forward we need value re-orientation. Value has completely eroded in Nigeria and the best way to start is from the schools. Those who will be value drivers are the teachers; they can’t give what they don’t have. So, if we invest in our teachers, the reward and value it will yield will be unimaginable.’’ The vicar continued: ‘’There are skills and competencies gaps in knowledge delivery. Therefore, we felt if we hold a workshop that will enhance teachers performance, we will be contributing and enhancing  competencies of the teachers , as well as doing missions, community relations , and corporate social responsibility. Venerable Adesina stated that the programme, which had about 120 teachers were trained  free. He praised the support of the parish council of the diocese, individuals, friends and associates. Specifically, he praised Corona Secomndary School for providing facilitators. Corona Schools in Lagos Chief Executive Officer Mrs Adeyoyin Adesina, who coordinated the workshop, said  the programme was organised to enhance teacher’s professionalism. ‘’Teachers hold, shape, and make the future and we believe it is expedient for us to contribute our quota in building and developing the teaching workforce around us. We noticed some private, missionary and public schools within our community and we felt this is the least we can do in developing the teaching workforce.’’ She bemoaned the way teachers are treated. ‘’Today, people don’t see teachers as professionals. They only talk about lawyers, medical personnel, and engineers as professionals while they see teaching as what one can manage to do. “For us, teaching is a profession and I always challenge people that whatever height you have attained in life, you must have been thought by a teacher’’. One of the participants from Babington Macaulay Secondary School, Lagos, Mr Adeolu Olutumbo, shared her experience. ’’My take home is that I am not limited to only competency as a teacher. I have learnt to add character to my teaching to be a complete professional. I have also leant how to have effective management of classroom. I am a better person,’’ he said. The training focused on lesson planning, character and competence, value system, effective classroom management, professionalism, ethics and etiquettes, among others.