Lagos State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal has urged the protesting Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) to shun violence. He urged the union to seek legal redress if dissatisfied with the implementation of the Consolidated Tertiary Institutions Salary Structure (CONTISS) 15 Migration salary scale. At a peace meeting between the polytechnic’s management and the union at the command headquarters, on Tuesday, Edgal, represented by Deputy Police Commissioner Aguba Elkanah, told the workers to remain peaceful. He said although academic activities were ongoing on the campuses of the polytechnic, he urged the Area ‘N’ Police Commander and the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Sagamu Road Police Station to take steps to ensure peace in the school, where he noted, academic activities were ongoing. “No worker of the institution should be molested or attacked for performing his or her duty,” Edgal said. A statement by the polytechnic’s spokesman, Mr. Olanrewaju Kuye, said the management team led by the Rector, Mr Oluyinka Samuel Sogunro, reiterated that the polytechnic acted on the Lagos State Executive Council’s directive in line with the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) policy. He said : “In order to pave the way for the outstanding promotions and annual increments for 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 appraisal years, the workers, through the Polytechnic Governing Council, appealed to the Lagos State Government for the withdrawal of the case earlier filed to restrain the unions from disrupting academic activities at the polytechnic. Lagos State Government on compassionate grounds discontinued the case and consequently, the case was dismissed by the National Industrial Court.” Others present at the meeting were Officer-in-Charge of Special Investigation Bureau, Vera Ameh-Akpa; Commander of Area ‘N’, Ayo Sonubi, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP); Shagamu Road Station (DPO),  Mr. Adekunle Omisakin and principal officers of the polytechnic. 