Block moulders can help in curbing building collapse by co mplying with the standards of their trade, Lagos State Materials Testing Laboratory (LSMTL) Acting General Manager Olalekan Ajani  said yesterday. At a stakeholders’ meeting with the National Association of Block Moulders of Nigeria (NABMN) leadership in Alimosho, Lagos, Ajani described block moulders as critical stakeholders in the construction industry. He said it was imperative for the agency and the association to strengthen their relationship, identify challenges and be united to ensure safety of lives and property. Ajani urged members of the association to ensure that their activities as stipulated in the 2015 Building and Civil Engineering (Construction) Materials Law, were regulated by the agency. He said: “The essence of this stakeholders’ engagement with NABMON is in line with the stance of the government on zero tolerance for building collapse. We identify block as an essential component in buildings, which if not properly and professionally done to standard, can cause a great havoc like building collapse.” The standard requirements for a block, he said, include the size, strength, dimensions, physical appearance, methodology engaged in the mix ratio, either hand compactor method or mechanical machinery method. Ajani acknowledged some block makers’ efforts to meet  the established standards and called for more efforts in this regard. Said he: “So far, the degree of compliance in the mixing, compactness and curing processes by these block makers is encouraging. We as materials testing laboratories need to closely monitor these industries to ensure that the present standard is not only sustained, but also surpassed, while we do recertification where necessary.” NABMON National President Mr. Rasheed Adebowale criticised building owners who engage quacks to mould blocks for them, saying such practice could not guarantee quality, as basic professional processes would not be followed. The state Chairman, Mr. Rasheed Aleshinloye, advised the government to intensify its sensitisation through radio and television jingles to enlighten on the dangers of patronising unapproved block moulders. The Zonal Chairman, Alimosho branch, Mr. Yusuf Adewuyi, identified the challenges of organising block moulders under an umbrella, whereby they could aggregate their veiws.