 Life indeed can be cruel, and life itself is full of uncertainties, some too difficult to explain. Emiliano Sala is on person the football world was looking forward to see what he would bring to the table in the English premiership after sealing a deal transferring from French Ligue  1 side Nantes to Cardiff for a whopping £15million about (about N7billion) The world unfortunately woke up to behold sudden disappearance of the private plane that was to take the 28 year old to his new club after he had bid his former teammates at goodbye. He had made his mark with the French club he joined 2015, making 142 appearances scoring 42 goals. The plane disappeared within in English Channel with no trace. After the search have been called off by the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) the family not willing to let go in a jiffy, had to join hands with well-wishers including footballers particularly his compatriots like Diego Maradon, lionel Messi Gonzalo Higuaín, Sergio Agüero among others to raise funds to continue the search which eventually yielded fruit last Sunday with the discovery of the plane under the sea with a yet to be identified body to confirm whether it is that of Sala or his pilot  David Ibbotson. From what has been found and reported so far, the chances of seeing both alive is very slim, yet the family, his friends and well-wishers keep hoping that even a miracle is possible in the face of facts that suggest that all may have been lost. Sadly too it is not only his friends well-wishers and football confraternity across the world that is waiting, even his pet dog named ‘Nala’ is not left out in the waiting even as the family in conjunction with the private company conducting the search are now working towards the next assignment, that of pulling out the wreckage which is 67m (220ft) below water to identify the said body and perhaps see whether a second body is there or even what else can be made of the facts on ground. It is indeed painful as it is for all football lovers across the globe, so it is for Nala! Emiliano Sala’s sister, Romina, shared this sad but irresistible photo of his dog, Nala. “Nala is waiting for you too.” 