Results released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last night have shown that some members of the House of Representatives have secured re-election. New House of Representatives members have also been elected. Our correspondents report. APC wins Ikorodu Federal Constituency in Lagos  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared  the All Progressives Congress (APC) the winner of Saturdays Presidential and National Assembly Elections in Ikorodu Federal  Constituency of Lagos State. Dr Musa Obalola, the INEC Returning Officer for the Feb. 23 House of Representatives poll for Ikorodu Federal Constituency, declared the result yesterday at INEC’s collation centre in Ikorodu at 6:22pm. According to him, Mr Babajimi Benson of APC, who represents the constituency in the House of Representatives, is returned as the winner. With the result, Benson has won for the second term. According to Obalola, the APC candidate polled 42,563 votes to beat his closest rival, Mrs Omotolani Popoola of the PDP, who got 19, 825 votes. He added that AD got 180 votes, ADC, 360 votes and CAP, 11, out of the 66, 875 total votes cast in the federal constituency election. In the same vein, Dr Prof. Abidemi Akindele, the INEC Collation Officer, who announced the result of the senatorial poll in the federal constituency, declared that the APC candidate won with 42,770 votes against PDP’s candidate, who got 20,382 votes. He said the AD got 204 votes and DPP, 147 votes, of 66,768 votes cast.  APC’s Olawuyi secures re-election as Kwara Rep  The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Raheem Olawuyi, was yesterday declared the winner of the Ekiti/Irepodun/Isin/Oke-Ero Federal Constituency in the general elections held on Saturday. The Returning Officer for the election, Prof. Modinat Salman, while announcing the result at the Irepodun Local Government Secretariat in Omu-Aran, said Olawuyi polled 33,386 votes to emerge winner. He defeated his closest rival, Dare Bankole of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 26, 954 votes Salman, who is the Dean Faculty of Education University of Ilorin, said Olawuyi having scored the highest number of votes in the election was declared winner. Salman gave the total valid votes as 61, 382 total number of rejected votes as 1, 587 and total number of votes cast as 62, 969. Olawuyi is a member of the House of Representative, representing the same constituency, having emerged the winner of the November 17, 2018 by-election in the state. The seat was declared vacant then following the death of its former occupant Hon. Funke Adedoyin after a brief illness.  Obidigwe, APGA candidate declared winner of Anambra East, Anambra West Fed constituency  Mr Chinedu Obidigwe, the All Progressives Grand Alliance ( APGA) candidate was yesterday announced winner of the Anambra East and Anambra West Federal Constituency poll. The Returning Officer, Prof. Josephat Ogbuagu, of the Department of Pure and Industrial Chemistry, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, announced the result at INEC office at Otuocha, Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State. Ogbuagu disclosed that Obidigwe polled 28,657 votes to beat other contestants. He said Mr Anichebe Nwoye of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) scored 9, 574 to come second while Mr Paul Chukwuma of All Progressives Congress (APC) scored 4,926 to place third. Ogbuagu said the candidate of APGA, Obidigwe having scored the highest votes cast was hereby declared winner and returned as the winner of the elections. This followed conclusion of polls by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and announcement of results of the Federal Constituency Elections for Anambra East and Anambra West held on February 23. Ogbuagu said 35 political parties took part in the elections and said that All Progressive Grand Alliance APGA, scored 28, 657, People’s Democratic Party PDP, 9, 574, All Progressive Congress APC 4,926 among others. He said 1,039 persons were registered voters in the area and that valid votes recorded for the elections was 24,096 while total vote cast was 25, 454 and total number of votes was 93,883 with 26,670 been the accredited voters. Prof Dennis Aribodor of Department of Parasitology of faculty of Natural Science, Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka was the collation officer for the elections. Party agents, Mr Obiorah Nnaemeka  of the APC, Mr Emeka Nzekwe of the PDP and Julius Chukemeke of APGA signed the result sheets for their political parties saying that they accepted the results as true reflection of what happened in the elections. In his acceptance speech, Obidigwe the winner of the election commended the voters of Anambra East and West for giving him another opportunity to serve the constituency and assured them of quality representation.  APC wins Katsina Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Salisu Isansi, as winner of Katsina Federal Constituency, with a score of 58,314 votes. Announcing the result yesterday in Katsina, the Returning Officer, Dr Godwin Ojochogu, said that Isansi defeated other candidates who contested in the election. He said the candidate, Aminu Chindo, scored 21,454 votes to emerge second. Ojochogu said the constituency had a total of 249,201 registered voters, with 87,622 votes cast and 3,039 votes rejected during the election. Ojochogu said Isansi, having scored highest number of votes cast satisfied the requirements of the law, and was therefore returned elected.  INEC declares Fatihu Mohammed winner in Sandamu, Daura, Maiadua federal constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Alhaji Fatihu Muhammed of All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the national assembly election into the Daura/Sandamu and Maiadua federal constituency in the house of representatives. Dr Babangida Umar, the Returning Officer, who announced the results in Daura, Katsina State yesterday, said Muhammed won the election with 94,734 votes, defeating his opponent, Usman Tela of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 25,114 votes. He said the total votes cast were 131,508 and rejected votes were 8,329. Malam Aminu Manzo-Daura, the PDP agent, expressed reservations on the results, saying it was characterised by some discrepancies. Fatihu Muhammed holds a Bachelor’s degree in political science from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria.  Shina Peller wins Iseyin Federal Constituency seat  The Independent National Electoral commission (INEC) on Sunday declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Mr Oluwashinaayomi Peller,  the winner of  the Iseyin/ Itesiwaju/ Iwajowa and Kajola Federal Constituency seat in Oyo State. INEC’s returning officer, Prof. Adeniyi Olatunbosun, who declared the result,  said Peller polled a total of 44,088 votes to beat PDP’s Najeemdeen Oyedeji, who polled 31,336. The African Democratic Congress (ADC) candidate and federal lawmaker,  Olasupo Abiodun, who was elected in 2015 on the platform of  the APC,  came third in the contest with 12,309 votes. There was wild jubilation at the collation centre after the  returning officer announced Peller as the winner. Peller is the son of the late popular magician, Prof.  Peller.  APC wins Ado-Odo/Ota Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Jimoh Ojugbele, as winner of Ado-Odo/Ota Federal Constituency seat in Ogun. The APC   candidate scored 24,184 votes to beat  Mr Segun Atanda of the People Democratic Party (PDP)  who had 15,880 votes. Prof. Ayodele Talabi, the INEC Returning Officer for Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government, made the declaration at the collation centre  at Ado-Odo-Ota. He said Ojugbele, having satisfied the requirements of the rule and scored the highest votes at the election, was declared winner of the  Ado-Odo/Ota Federal Constituency seat. “The APC candidate, having satisfied the INEC rule of having the highest votes of 24,184 against the candidate of the PDP, who had 15,880 votes, is hereby declared winner of the election,” he said.  Commissioner wins House of Reps seat in Kaduna  Kaduna State Commissioner for Water Resources Hamza Ibrahim has won a seat in the House of Representatives to represent Soba Federal Constituency under the All Progressives Congress (APC). Announcing the results yesterday at Maigana, headquarters of Soba LGA, the Returning Officer, Prof. Bashir Jumare of Faculty of Administration, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna, said that the Commissioner polled 33,981 votes. He said Khalid Ibrahim of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) polled 14,382 votes, Prof. Shehu Adamu Usman of African Democratic Congress (ADC) secured 9,778 votes while Kawu Ibrahim Yakasai of Social Democratic Party polled 8,333 votes. The returning officer said Ibrahim,  having scored the highest number of votes and satisfied all requirements of the law, ‘is declared the winner’ to represent Soba at the House of Representatives.  Ex-Kaduna speaker loses Reps seat to first timer  Former Kaduna State House of Assembly Speaker Ahmed Hassan-Jumare, who contested under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for House of Representatives seat has lost to a first timer, Muktar Shehu-Ladan of All Progressive Congress (APC). Hassan-Jumare was Speaker of the state Assembly from 2013 to 2015. Declaring the results in Makarfi, headquarters of Makarfi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, the Returning Officer, Prof. Tijjani Abubakar, declared that the APC got 59,495 votes while PDP scored 35,126 votes. Abubakar said the total registered votes stood at 104,026, while 51,555 votes were recorded. Other results announced by the Returning Officer indicated that at the Senatorial election, APC got 61,847 votes and PDP had 32,183 votes, while in the Presidential election APC polled 67,181 votes against the PDP’s 26,191 votes.  PDP candidate emerges winner in Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Victor Kolade Akinjo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as winner of Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency of Ondo State. The PDP candidate polled 32,082 votes, to beat his closest rival, Mr Donald Ojogo of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ojogo polled 20,603 votes at the Saturday’s National Assembly elections. Prof. Johnson Fatimirin, INEC’s Returning Officer for the constituency, made the declaration at the Collation Centre in Igbokoda. Fatimirin said Akinjo, having satisfied the requirement of the law by getting the highest votes, has been declared winner of the National Assembly elections for Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal constituency.  Akwa Ibom speaker wins Etinan Federal Constituency  Akwa Ibom House of Assembly Speaker Onofiok Luke has emerged the winner of Saturday’s Etinan Federal Constituency election. He is of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Announcing the result, the Returning Officer, Prof. Isongesit Solomon, said on Sunday that Luke polled 44,830 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mr Dan Akpan of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who polled 15,800 votes. The Etinan Federal  Constituency is made up of Etinan, Nsit Ibom and Nsit Ubium local government areas.  INEC declares Ahmed Babba-Kaita of APC winner of Katsina North senatorial election  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Ahmed Babba-Kaita of All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of senatorial election in the Katsina North senatorial district. The Returning Officer, Prof. Ojonigu Friday, who made the declaration in Daura yesterday, said Babba-Kaita scored 339,438 to defeat his PDP opponent, Alhaji Mani Nasarawa, who scored 127,529 votes and Accord Party candidate, Lawal Nalado scored 14,152 votes. He said thetotal registered voters are 946,538, accredited voters — 503’798, valid votes — 469,127, rejected votes —124,78 and total votes casts was 481,605. Malam Aminu Manzo, the PDP agent, refused to append his signature on the result, claiming anomalies in the collated result. Ahmed Kaita is the senator representing the area, elected last year, following the death of Sen. Mustafah Bukar, who represented the zone.  Olatunbosun wins Saki Federal Constituency seat  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday declared All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Olajide Olatunbosun, as the winner of the Saki West, East and Atisbo Federal Constituency seat. Olatunbosun, who currently occupies the position, was initially elected under the same party in 2015. Announcing the result on Sunday, INEC’s returning officer for the Federal Constituency, Prof. Niyi Togun, disclosed that the APC candidate polled  27,115 to beat PDP’s Adeagbo Fasasi, who polled 24,139. The candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the current Deputy Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Mr Musah Abdulwasi,  polled 10,314  to  come third.  APC candidate winner of Iwo Federal constituency in Osun  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Amobi Akintola, the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of Iwo/Ayedire/ Ola-Oluwa Federal constituency of Osun in the Saturday’s National Assembly election. Prof. Rufus Adesoji, who is the returning officer, said Amobi scored 29,229 votes. Adesoji said Mr Mudasir Lukman, the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), came second with 21,608 votes. He said the candidate of African Democratic Party (ADP) Adiat Olaposi came third with 17,624 votes.  INEC declares APC winner in Lagos East Senatorial District  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner for all the contested positions in Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in Lagos East senatorial district. Dr Aaron Akinloye, the INEC Returning Officer for the Feb. 23 House of Representatives poll for Epe Federal Constituency, Lagos State, declared the result on Sunday at INEC’s collation centre in Epe. According to him, Mr Wale Raji of APC, who represents the constituency in the House of Representatives, was returned as winner. With the result Raji has won his second term bid. According to Akinloye, the APC candidate polled 18,327 votes to beat his closest PDP rival who got 13,318 votes. Others were APP 61 votes, ADC 42 votes and AD 49 out of the 32,415 total votes cast. In the same vein, Dr Adelaja Odukoya, the INEC Collation Officer, who announced the result for the Senatorial polls declared that APC candidate won with 18,713 votes against PDP’s flag bearer who got 13,075 votes, and ADP 102 votes. Mr Bayo Osinowo is the senatorial candidate of APC, while Mr Abiodun Oyefusi is the candidate of the PDP in Lagos East.  APC’s Usman-Auyo wins Reps election in Jigawa  Ibrahim Usman-Auyo of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has won the Hadejia/Auyo/Kafin-Hausa Federal Constituency election in Jigawa. Announcing the result on Sunday in Hadejia, the Returning Officer, Prof. Ahmad Shehu-Kutama, said Usman-Auyo scored 70,388 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Jibrin Babangida of PDP, who polled 34,143 votes. He said Ibrahim Bello of SDP polled 17,247; Isyaka Sambo of DA scored 109 votes; Danmari Abdullahi of MPN got 34 votes while Hassan Mustapha of PRP scored 20 votes. Usman-Auyo is the serving Rep of the constituency.  APC wins two House of Reps seats in Lagos Island  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on Sunday declared candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winners of Lagos Island Federal Constituencies 1 and 2 in Lagos State. The results were declared at the INEC office in Lagos Island. Prof. Olaniyi Okedele of the University of Lagos, the Returning Officer for the Lagos Island Federal Constituency 1, said that a total number of 19,493 votes were cast in the election, with 603 void votes  and 18, 890 valid votes. He said Enitan Badru of the All Progressives Congress (APC) polled 15,245 votes to beat his closest rival, Violet Williams of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 3,258 votes. Okedele declared that Mr Enitan Badru of the APC satisfied the requirements of law and scoring the highest number of votes, is declared the winner and is returned elected having polled 15,245 votes. Also, Prof Solomon Akinboye of the University of Lagos and the Returning Officer of Lagos Island Federal Constituency 2 declared Akiolu Kayode of APC the winner in the constituency’s election. Akinboye said a total of 18,758 votes were cast with 973 votes rejected and 17,785 votes valid. He said Akiolu Kayode polled 12,988 votes, followed by Adama Olagbenga of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who scored 4, 345. The returning officer said ADC scored 44 votes while AD polled 50 votes. Akinboye declared Mr Akiolu Kayode of the APC  winner, having satisfied the requirements of law and having scored the highest number of votes, and returned him elected. Mr Sodiq Abubakar, the Electorial Officer, Lagos Island commended the stakeholders who had been waiting for results since yesterday for their calm and maturity. Abubakar said INEC conducted elections for the Presidential and National Assembly positions, while commending the security personnel for their support and conduct.  APC wins House of Reps, Senate in Badagry  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner for all the contested positions in Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. Prof Denloye Olatokunbo, the INEC Returning Officer for Badagry Federal Constituency, Lagos State, declared the result yesterday at INEC’s collation centre in Ibereko, Badagry. According to him, Mr Babatunde Hunpe of APC won the election into the House of Representatives, Badagry Federal Constituency. Hunpe is the Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Environment. According to Olatokunbo, the APC candidate polled 23,309 votes to beat his closest PDP rival who got 15,662 votes. Others are AP 45 votes, ADC 177 and AD 104 out of the 42,823 total votes cast. At the same venue, Mrs Bosede Abiodun, the INEC Collation Officer, who announced the result for the Senatorial polls, declared that APC candidate won with 23,189 votes against PDP’s flag bearer who got 16,248 votes, and ADP 165 votes. Mr Olamilekan Adeola known as Yayi is the senatorial candidate of APC, while Mr Gbadebo Rhodes is the candidate of the PDP in Lagos West. Abiodun also announced that AAC scored 54 votes while ADC got 162 votes out of the 42,542 total votes cast in the election.  APC wins Apapa Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Mufutau Egberongbe of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the Federal House of Representatives seat for Apapa Federal Constituency of Lagos State. Prof. Monday Ubagha, Dean, Faculty of Education, University of Lagos (UNILAG), the returning officer for Apapa Federal Constituency Elections on Sunday declared the result at the collation centre at United Christian Primary School, Bombay Crescent, Apapa. He said that Egberongbe won with 17961 votes, to defeat his closest rival, Mr Adewole Adewunmi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who had 11845 votes. Other candidates in the election include Mr Afolabi Toyin of African Democratic Congress (ADC) who had 86 votes, Mrs Okani Dominant of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) with 67 votes and Mr Adegoke Ajibade of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) who had 58 votes.  APC candidate winner of Chanchaga Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Rep Umar Bago, the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of Chanchaga Federal Constituency of  Niger in Saturday’s National Assembly election. Prof. Johnson Olusegun, who is the returning officer, said Bago scored 39,391 votes, to defeat Alhaji Abubakar Buba of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who came second with 17,869 votes.  APC dethrones PDP in Edo Federal Constituency  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Dennis Idahosa, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Ovia Federal Constituency, as the winner of the election into the House of Representatives seat. Idahosa, a former Commissioner in Edo, polled 28,509 to defeat the incumbent Ms Omosede Igbinedion, daughter of Chief Gabriel Igbinedion and younger sister to the former Governor of the state, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, who scored 23, 345 votes. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Victor Igbinedion of the University of Benin, announced the final result at Iguobazuwa, Ovia South West Local Government Area. He said having polled the highest number of votes cast and certified all electoral conditions, Idahosa is returned elected as the winner of the Ovia Federal Constituency seat elections conducted on Saturday. An elated Idahosa who dedicated the victory to God, noted that it was the “voice of the people against bad representation”. Further breakdown of the result showed that the APC candidate won in 9 of the 13 wards available in Ovia North East Local Government Area. His opponent, Omosede Igbinedion of the PDP, won four and one ward in Ovia North East and Ovia South West Local Government Areas.  PDP wins Oredo Federal Constituency of Edo  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as winner of Oredo Federal Constituency, with a score of 32, 895 votes. The result was announced by Prof Elizabeth Ejbochuku, the Returning Officer for House of Representatives, Oredo Federal Constituency, on Sunday at Urhokpota Hall, Benin, the Edo capital. She said that Ihama defeated seven other  candidates who contested in the election. She said that APC candidate, Iyoha Osaigbovo, emerged second with 23,352 votes. Ejbochuku said that Ihama having scored highest number of votes cast satisfied the requirements of the law and was therefore returned elected.  Seats for APC in Kwara, Osun  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress. (APC), Malam Mohammed  Bio as the winner of the Baruten/Kaiama seat in Saturday’s  House of Representatives election. The INEC Returning Officer, Prof.  Lanre Olaitan, who announced the result on Sunday in Kaiama, headquarters of Kaiama Local Government Area of Kwara,  said that the APC candidate polled  37, 914 votes to defeat the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Musa, who scored 14, 476. The PDP candidate, an immediate former chairman of the state branch of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) lost to an immediate former chairman of the Baruten Local Government Area of Kwara. Wth the declaration APC has officially won three seats of the six  House of Representatives seats from Kwara. INEC also declared Mr Ajibola Bashiru of the APC winner of the Osun Central Senatorial District election held on Saturday. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Titilayo Kuku, while announcing the results of the National Assembly election, declared the APC candidate as the winner with 132,821 votes. Kuku also announced the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr Ganiyu Olaoluwa, as the first runner-up with a total votes of 106,779. The returning officer thereafter announced and returned  Bashiru of the APC as the elected senator to represent the  senatorial district in the Senate. The  INEC Returning Officer for Irepodun/Olorunda/Osogbo/Orolu Federal Constituency, Prof. Olukayode Ashaye, also  announced Mr Olubukola Oyewo of the APC  as the winner of the Federal House of Representatives election seat. Ashaye announced Oyewo as the winner of the election after scoring 66,933 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mr Adebayo Adewale of the PDP,  who scored 59,551 votes.   PDP wins Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency in Enugu  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Mr Toby Okechukwu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) winner of the Aninri/Awgu/Oji River Federal Constituency in Enugu State. Prof Daniel Nwachukwu, Returning Officer and Dean, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) announced the result in Awgu yesterday. Nwachukwu disclosed that Okechukwu polled 50,173 votes to win the election while the All Progressives Congress (APC) scored 8,354 votes and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) came third with 3,854 votes. According to him, Okechukwu candidate of the PDP, having scored the highest votes cast is hereby declared winner and returned as the winner of the election. 