Yobe State University (YSU), is to become the Centre of Robotics & Artificial Intelligence after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the ICT University, Louisiana, USA. The short ceremony was held at the university’s Senate Chambers in Damaturu, penultimate week. Vice Chancellor of Yobe State University, Prof Yakubu Mukhtar, and the President, Board of Trustees of the ICT University, Prof. Victor Mbarika, both signed on behalf of their institutions. “We will be having a lot of lecturers and students exchanges in this institution. Our number one goal is research and scholarship and we will ensure that good researches come out of both institutions, so that Yobe State will be one of the premier destinations of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence and modern areas of IT research,” Prof Mbarika said. Speaking shortly before the MoU was signed, Prof Mukhtar assured that YSU would continue to establish linkages with other institutions, home and abroad, to fast track its growth and development. Mukhtar is optimistic the MoU would open ways for YSU in future collaboration to various opportunities and institutions across the world. “No organisation can exist as an island in itself. As an institution of higher learning, we need to collaborate both within and outside the country. That is why I am so pleased with this collaboration. I am sure, Yobe State University is going to benefit immensely from it. We are very keen to give every support to see this MoU to the next level,” Mukhtar added. In his remarks, the President of the ICT University, Prof Victor Mbarika, disclosed that the institution is keen on the implementation of the project, adding that all equipment would be flown from New York to Lagos for collection between six and eight weeks. His words: “We are very seriously keen on our partnership because we are answerable to ICT University Foundation and its funding agencies. So to be fair to them and to the institutions in the developing world that we collaborate with, we want to ensure that we don’t just stop at the signing of MoUs and MoAs but to actually see to their implementations. “We have equipment for the e-learning and the e-Library and a multi-media equipment to help with the implementation of the Health Information Technology Diploma Programme with this YSU’s School of Medicine. Our goal is to ensure that there is a strong presence of information technology or we continue to enhance the presence of IT that this institution already has through the great leadership of Prof Mukhtar,” Mbarika said.