The Igbo community has no issues whatever with its Yoruba hosts in Lagos State, apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze has declared. President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos, Chief Solomon Aguene, dismissed reports of tension between the two ethnic groups, describing them as handiworks of mischief-makers. He said insinuations of a deep-seated acrimony and suspicion between Igbos and Yorubas on the account of political affinities were untrue. Aguene told reporters on Wednesday in Lagos that the Igbo community remains grateful to its Yoruba hosts and will do nothing to alter the mutually beneficial relationship between the two. According to him: “The Igbos in Lagos are active contributors to the thriving Lagos economy through their individual and collective enterprise and industry helping to open up new economic and investment corridors in Lagos State. “The Yorubas on the other hand have warmly welcomed and received the Igbos offering access to choice political and economic opportunities. “To cement this very cordial relationship between the Igbos and the Yorubas, sons and daughters of Igboland over the years have been appointed or elected to enviable positions of leadership here in Lagos.” He said though there were pockets of skirmishes during last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in some parts of the state, especially in Okota, they had nothing to do with the cordial relationship the Igbos have enjoyed over the years from their Yoruba host communities. While describing the Yoruba people as the best friend of the Ndigbo in Lagos and beyond, he advised Ndigbo residents in Lagos and their host communities not to allow some mischievous elements to destroy the long standing friendship between them. Chief Ogbona said the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, being the umbrella body of Ndigbos, has met with constituted authorities in the state, and has received the assurance that no such crisis exist. “We therefore call on all citizens to remain law abiding, and respecting constituted authorities, we urge them to go about their normal businesses while we iron out all the grey areas including the immediate and remote causes of the alleged breach of public peace and possible solutions to prevent reoccurrence,” he stressed. He also called on all political actors and government authorities in the state to begin to take steps to address noticeable gaps and trust deficits leading to regular ethnic disharmony in Lagos. “We call on the Lagos State Government, the National Orientation Agency, the political actors and other critical stakeholders to do more in terms of orientation to help douse inter-ethnic rivalry, jealousy and mistrust,” he added. National leader of the People of south East Region (POSER) Amb. Obuesi Phillips, said most often the people creating the crisis were not from the southeast. He added that Ohanaeze and POSER have been advocating for a peaceful co-existence between Igbo residents in Lagos and their Yoruba host communities. He expressed gratitude to the leadership of the AFENIFERE for their fatherly role in nipping the challenge in the bud and praised Police authorities for the swift response to the very ugly incident, he alleged was engineered to taint the already existing cordial relationship between the Igbos and the Yorubas in Lagos.
He said the Igbos in Lagos have pledged to continue to work assiduously for the advancement of the Centre of Excellence.