 The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency of sabotaging the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in alleged orchestrated plot to engineer a staggered presidential election. This, the main opposition party said, was contrary the “simulated” stance by the Presidency and the national chairman of the APC, Mr Adams Oshiomhole in condemning the postponement of the February 16 elections. In a statement Sunday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party recalled its ceaseless protests against the continued retention of Mrs Amina Zakari at a strategic post in INEC. The PDP reiterated its position that Mrs Zakari is a relation of President Muhammadu Buhari who is seeking re-election on the platform of the APC. The statement said, “We have been reliably informed that the same Amina Zakari and another high-ranking INEC commissioner played a pivotal role in assisting the APC and Buhari Presidency in sabotaging the operations of INEC and scuttling the February 16 elections. “The reason for this is that President Buhari is determined to have a staggered election where he can use security agencies to subvert the will of the people at the polls. “These APC elements in INEC engineered actions that affected the distribution and delivery of INEC sensitive materials to designated locations, thereby frustrating the electoral process. “We also have details of how a hired team of data hackers corrupted the voters register, with a view to causing mass confusion and voters suppression on election day. “Nigerians would have been shocked that many registered voters in possession of their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) would have arrived their polling centres on election day, only to discover to their amazement that their names had disappeared from the register in their units”. The PDP said intelligence at its disposal further detailed how agents of the Buhari Presidency allegedly infiltrated the distribution system and ensured that sensitive election materials did not arrive at the designated locations; with the view to stalling elections in several states and paving way for a staggered election. “This is in addition to deliberate swapping of sensitive election materials between different states and local governments so as to muddle up the process and stall election in affected areas. In some of states like Edo, sensitive election materials did not arrive at their designated points on APC interruption. “The PDP urges Nigerians to continue to be alert in resisting the APC and the Buhari Presidency in their plot to sabotage our elections. “Our promise to Nigerians is that we will continue to stand with the people in exposing APC’s rigging plots and stopping them from creating more havoc and destruction of our democratic process. “We therefore call on President Buhari to save himself from further disgrace, as the signpost of enemy of democracy, by ensuring that his cabal and their ilk in APC cease forthwith from tampering with our electoral process”, the PDP added.  