A tour of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, (UNIZIK) has revealed a plethora of infrastructural projects. The buildings, which spread across the three campuses of the university: Awka (main campus), Agulu and Nnewi, have continued to attract praises to the Vice-Chancellor (VC) of the institution, Professor Joseph Ahaneku. CAMPUSLIFE engaged some members of the university community after touring the projects. The institution’s Students’ Union President, Comrade Joseph Okafor, lauded the projects. “I was marveled at the massive on-going projects after touring the University recently. Our amiable Vice-Chancellor is really developing the university rapidly. Of note are the gigantic university hostels, which hopefully would ameliorate the plight of students, who experience hardship in the hands of private lodge owners with regards to the exorbitant rents they are made to pay. When completed, a substantial number of students would indeed be relieved,” Okafor said. The National President of the UNIZIK Alumni and Imo State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Prof. Ezeonu, while addressing the Vice-Chancellor, expressed satisfaction at the developments in the University. His words: “The Vice-Chancellor has really done well in the level of infrastructural developments in the University. It is highly commendable.” A fresh graduate, Miss Jennifer Azubuike, while commending the level of developments in the university expressed concerns about its completion. “I’m really impressed and proud of my alma mater with regard to the extent of infrastructural developments, but I am more concerned at its completion. It is a common thing for people to commence a project and it becomes a herculean task in completing such projects. Though, I’m quite optimistic that Prof. Ahaneku would complete at least a good number of the projects before the expiration of his tenure”. A lecturer in the university, who spoke on the condition of anonymity described the projects as laudable. “Returning from the prolonged industrial action, I must confess that I was amazed at the structures scattered round the university. Most of these were not there or some were at the foundation level before we went on strike. Prof. Ahaneku, like I have always known, is a man of action. We are in dire need of classrooms, but with these lecture halls springing up here and there, we would get a reprive,” he said. The VC, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE,  expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for assisting the University through intervention agencies such as the TETFund and NEEDS Assessment. Prof. Ahaneku, who is also the Chairman, Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Federal Universities in Nigeria, added that his administration was able to streamline the needs of the university and pursued it head-on. He listed the already completed and on-going projects to include four gigantic hostels of which two are already completed, classrooms, central store, football pitch, the university main gate, workshops, lavatories and laboratories among others. “I monitor these projects thrice a week. The supervisors are equally doing an efficient and professional work  hence, keeping the contractors on their toes. Majority of these projects are nearing completion and a good number of them would be completed and commissioned during the forthcoming convocation ceremony,” he disclosed. Ahaneku’s five-year tenure expires in June, this year.