For allegedly raping a 23-year-old lady, two Babcock University dropouts, Don-Chima George and Olusegun Rasak, are now at the Kirikiri Prisons on the orders of an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Olufunke Sule-Amzat, remanded George,25, and ou Rasak, 28,  pending the advice from the state Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Sule-Amzat adjourned the case until March 7 for subtantive hearing. The defendants, who reside at Lekki, Lagos, were arraigned on a three-count charge of conspiracy, sexual assault and rape. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Insp. Benson Emuerhi, told the court that the defendants assaulted a 23-year-old lady on Feb. 3,  from 5.00a.m. to 7.00a.m. at Delankaster Hotels, Lekki Phase 1. He told the court that the case was reported by the victim at the Maroko Police Division and was later transferred to the Gender Section at state police command headquarters, Ikeja. The prosecutor submitted  that the duo lured their victim to the hotel and raped her after drugging her. Emuerhi said that  the offences contravened Sections 260, 261 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 (Revised). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Section prescribes up to life imprisonment for rape. NAN also reports that Mr Edgal Imohimi, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, had earlier paraded the suspects. He said that a case of rape was reported against the duo, who allegedly took a 23-year-old woman to a club and raped her. Spokesman for  the police command, CSP Chike Oti, also said that the duo took their victim to the hotels in Lekki, Phase 1. Oti said while parading the men that while at the club, they mixed their victim’s drink with a substance that made her weak and almost unconscious. ”Satisfied that the drug was beginning to take effect on the victim, they quietly left the club with her to Dellankester Hotels in Lekki. ”At the hotel, they took turns to rape her. “As if that was not enough, they also videoed the abuse. ”When the victim woke up from the induced sleep, she confronted the suspects who denied having carnal knowledge of her. ”Not satisfied, she placed a call to her elder brother complaining that she had been violated. ”The brother immediately invited policemen from Maroko Division led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Isah Abdulmajid, to the scene. ”On searching the suspects, the DPO recovered their phones and went through their video recordings where he saw a video of the suspects sexually abusing the apparently unconscious victim,” Oti said. (NAN)