A coalition of civil society groups have raised alarm over the stock pilling of weapons in Bayelsa State and Niger Delta ahead of next week election. The convener, Coalition  Against  Electoral  Violence, Comrade  Olufemi Lawson at a conference in Lagos said the situation was worrisome. He said during the 2015 election, the world witnessed an unimaginable height of violence unleashed on the innocent people of the Bayelsa. “As this crucial election gets closer, we have found it extremely imperative to inform Nigerians and the international community, about the likelihood of violence in some parts of the country, if the necessary checks are not undertaken by the Federal government and various authorities across our land. “This clarion call becomes inevitable at this point, as we have come to the realization, that elections should no longer be seen as wars and that whosoever engage in the destruction of properties and lives of our people, during the election period, is made to bear the consequences of his or her actions. “ Lawson said those who embark on election violence must be brought to book, noting that their conduct would lead to political apathy if not checked. “The Coalition called upon all patriotic Nigerians, leaders and members of the International community, to join hands with them as they commence a new phase of seeking justice for these victims of the senseless act of political desperation. They are also alarmed that from all available reports that these same perpetrators are already recruiting thugs and stockpiling arms, ahead of the forthcoming general elections. “Walled on the International Community, embassies and foreign governments to place a visa ban on these purveyors of violence as a further deterrence to those involved in electoral violence in the country. “We demanded that the Bayelsa State government, commence the immediate implementation of the reports of the Justice Margaret Akpomiemie led commission of inquiry, which investigated the violence, mayhem and grave breach of the peace that occurred in the state before and during the state 2015/2016 governorship election,” he said.