Following the deportation of 723 Nigerians by the Ghana Immigration Service, the Federal Government on Thursday said it would soon clamp down on illegal immigrants in the country. The Minister of Power, Works and Housing Mr. Babatunde Fashola who said this in Lagos at the BRF Gabfest, lamented the inhuman treatment of Nigerians abroad. According to him, the country also has extant laws to deport illegal immigrants in the country. The event, tagged BRF2GABFEST, second edition, was organised by some youth groups to celebrate Fashola. It is themed, ’Where are the jobs?’ The minister said there is a current audit of workers on so many construction sites in the country to ascertain how many ECOWAS citizens are working in the sites, noting that even though they do not need a visa to come into the country but they need a work permit. Fashola said: “But you heard that Ghana deported some Nigerians. It is the right that every country has but it is a right we have never exercised but we are going to exercise it now. “It is just the law, every foreigner who has legitimate papers to come to Nigeria is welcome. “If you want to work in Nigeria the same regulation that applies in your country that you must get a work permit applies to you here also.” He added: ‘’If you don’t have a work permit here and you are in my site, I will take you out. That is already happening I refused to approve payment for one consultant two months ago because I said I wanted to see his work permit and make sure it was valid for the period the job was done and thankfully he produced it and he was paid. “These are the policies about of jobs and employment that are in place by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government.’’ He said the issue of job creation in the country was hampered by policies enunciated by the previous administration. On job creation strategy of the present administration, he said the president has issued an Executive Order known as Executive Order 5. “What Executive Order 5 seeks to achieve is that anytime our economy produces opportunity, we must ensure that if Nigerians are able to do that job we should give them preference,” he said. Fashola noted after about 300 found themselves in difficult business terrain owing banks over N5 trillion, the government then bailed the banks out with N5 trillion in order not bring the country’s banking system down and collapse the economy. He explained the lesson from that experience informed why the Buhari-led government decided to support people at the base of the pyramid by starting with social intervention funds to cushion poverty and established N-power and School Feeding Programme for over nine million children, among others. Fashola said the programmes had overtime created linkage support for farmers producing the foodstuff needed to keep the programme going.