The Buhari Media Organization (BMO) has alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) plan to use the Parallel Voting Tabulation System (PVTS) to rig the 2019 general election, create chaos in the aftermath of the election. In a statement on Thursday signed by the group Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO also said the strategy embarked upon by the PDP was destined for failure. The Statement read, “We know that it is the usual template for PDP to create various scenarios in build-up to elections. Sensing defeat, they begin to create imaginary, unsubstantiated and unscientific claims and stories. We urge them to be careful so they do not impose the conclusion of their mental gyration on Nigerians, especially when Nigerians have decided for President Muhammadu Buhari”. “We find it laughable that just a while ago, Osita Chidoka claimed they – the PDP – have mobilized 40 million people as PDP’s independent election monitors. Now if we may ask, how many voters are there that they need 40 million election monitors? Are they mobilizing to rig the election, because we do not know anywhere in the world where election monitors are up to 40 million”. “Who could be more fitting as a rigger than the PDP who, for 16 years, hatched several flawed electoral processes that even its former president admitted openly to”. “We know that it is deeply engraved in the culture of the PDP to be scammers, from the Maurice Iwu days to the employment scam of 2014, to this bogus claim that they have mobilized forty million election monitors. Such claims ought to be disregarded as Nigerians focus on the polls on Saturday.” “We urge well-meaning Nigerians to come out and vote for their conscience, to choose between a party headed by a man who – despite holding several public offices in the past – was never indicted in any corrupt cases; and a man with huge integrity deficit, an internationally acclaimed thief chosen by a party that led Nigeria to the brink of destruction”.