Ahead of 2019 general election, the Nigeria Police Force has urged all political parties in Kano and their supporters to avoid acts capable of breaching peace in the state. The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mr Muhammad Adamu, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, in charge of Research and planning, Mr Aminchi Baraya, made the call at an interactive session with stakeholders in Kano on Tuesday. The interactive session was aimed at ensuring a hitch-free election, maintain adequate peace and tranquility in the state. “I have deployed all the DIG’s to the six geo-political zones in the country to oversee the general election. “My officers have been trained on how they are expected to conduct themselves during the election, adding that the NPF is prepared to ensuring that the election is free, fair and credible. Adamu appealed to the public to vote peacefully and conduct themselves responsibly at the polling units, adding that after voting, everyone was expected go back home. Speaking earlier, the Kano Commissioner of Police, Mr Wakili Muhammad, commended the stakeholders for participating in the interactive session. He also called on various stakeholders in the state to join hands with the command in the fight against drug abuse in the state. NAN reports that the AIG Zone 1, Mr Dan Bature, governorship candidates from some of the political parties as well as other stakeholders attended the meeting. Speaking on behalf of the stakeholders, Hajiya Hauwa El-Yakub, Kano central senatorial candidate under New Progressive Movement (NPM) pledged to cooperate with the security agencies to ensure a hitch-free exercise. She, however, appealed to the Federal Government to intervene in fighting political thuggery, in order to have peaceful elections not only in Kano state but across the country. “You cannot take away drugs from political thuggery, candidates from various political parties use youths to get what they want during the election,”She said.(NAN)