Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has revealed how the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, prayed for him night before the Saturday chopper crash in Kogi State. He made the revelation on Sunday while giving testimony at the RCCG, City of Grace, Lokoja, Kogi State. According to a statement issued on Monday by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Laolu Akande, Osinbajo said “On Friday, we went to (RCCG) camp; usually, I attend our Holy Ghost service. We came in very late from Akwa Ibom State. In fact, we arrived just in time for the grace at the end of the service. “Thereafter, our daddy in the Lord, (G.O) Pastor Adeboye, wanted to speak to me. He asked me how things were going on, the campaign activities and all that, and I explained everything; what I was doing on the campaign trail and all of that, some of the challenges. “He then said, I am going to pray for you. He said a prayer that turned out to be very interesting because usually, as you know, he doesn’t pray for long. “He said “Lord God Almighty, I want you to protect this man,” He said it three times and paused, then he continued. “You know how very dear he is to my heart. I want you to protect him.” I found it very funny that he repeated it several times and then he prayed for favour and other things. “So, when the crash happened, immediately it dawned on me that the Lord God had led him to say that very special prayer. And the Lord God Almighty delivered us in accordance with His word that, “even when 10,000 fall by our side, no harm whatsoever will come near us.” “I just want to thank the Almighty God for His grace and mercy that has been so abundant in my life and in all of our lives who are here,” he added. Earlier, the Vice President had called up members of his entourage who were with him in the Chopper and who were in the church to join him at the altar. They included Labour Minister of State, Stephen Ocheni; and Mr. Femi Osinbajo, VP’S elder brother. He also called the names of Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser; and Ambassador Abdullahi Gwary, SSA Foreign Affairs/Protocol – although both of them were not in the service. Others are Mr. Laolu Akande, the VP’s Spokesman; Dr Biodun Adelowo, Personal Physician; Mr. Doyin Adetuberu, Security Officer; and Ayoola Oladunni, ADC). “This is my older brother, the same father, same mother. Our father passed on long ago, but our mother is alive. If both of us had lost our lives on the same day, that would have been an absolute tragedy, but God saved that from happening. “We are truly grateful to the Almighty God and we bless the name of the Lord. And for all of you who are rejoicing with us today, your homes will be filled with rejoicing. You will not know tragedy, you will not know harm, all the days of your lives will be filled with rejoicing,” he said.