Since last week, reader, you and I have been made unwilling witnesses to a lot of political drama. Remember that I once mentioned that our election stunts normally include a war of words, a crossing of swords and the services of father time. May I solemnly remind you that I mentioned before that we have already seen the war and the crossing. Finally, the services of father time were brought into the fray last week. I think someone should pay me for predicting that. Thank you; that clapping is payment enough. Well, you know the story. Last Saturday, just when we were about set and rearing to go and choose … err… ‘our leaders’, news came that the elections had been postponed! The rumour mills were agog. There were not enough materials on ground. The transfer of materials had not been completed. Some early-bird illegal voters had been caught. There was a great deal of disconnect in the election preparation machinery itself. I tell you, when correct information is scarce, incorrect ones play the field with reckless abandon. Of course, the reverberations caused by the news were not only political, psychological or sociological but grammatical as well. The political reverberations were quite plain for all to see. Our cards remained in their sheaths and we could not exercise our franchise. In short our suffrages became weakened. Psychologically, some of us became a little discouraged. I heard someone say ‘let them be voting their thing themselves’. Now, please don’t ask me what that means because I don’t know. Sociologically, the cancellation gave ‘us the society’ that sense of déjà vu all over again, as they say. Now, that can’t be good. I heard one exclaim, ‘ah, ah, when will this country grow up sef and stop postponing elections anyhow?’ Another one said, ‘umph, they want to do their mago-mago again.’ To some, cancelling or postponing elections has become a Nigerian thing, part of the organic structure of the country. Me, I kept my peace because I thought, supposing INEC knows a thing or two that we don’t? Or three or four? The country was given a grammar treat. I tell you, anyone who has had any dealings with grammar will understand that it is not easy. Most people would sooner go through a bout of piles I think than be asked to determine the grammatical correctness of a phrase or sentence. That was the plight of the citizens as they were asked to accept ‘I regret’ for ‘I apologise’ from the INEC chief. I saw many of my citizens going around muttering to themselves and rolling their eyes in agony: ‘Has the INEC chief apologized or not when he says ‘I regret’?’ Did he regret or apologise for that day’s revenue loss? As I speak to you now, many have not come up with a definitive difference. Grammar, grrr!. During the week also, the media reported that President Buhari stated that he wanted a free and fair election. Very good! Anyone therefore, said he, who ‘snatches’ an election box should be shot immediately. Ha! The presidency then gave further clarifications that if anyone had any problem with that directive, it meant he had something to hide. Ah, ah!! Naturally, many people have been reacting both positively and negatively. It is a little like one of the Hans Anderson stories about the emperor’s new clothes. You don’t know it? Then let me oblige you with a summary just to illustrate how the town can be so divided over a matter such as this. Once, there was an emperor who was very rich and powerful and loved new clothes, just like me, without the rich and powerful though. So, he had his tailors constantly staying up all night sewing up stitches to keep him happy in new clothes. Well, one straying fellow turned up in the town one day claiming to have the act of sewing pat down to a T and could make the emperor the best clothes in the world. He was given his own apartment and the whole apparatuses of the job. Knowing nothing about sewing, he proceeded to having himself a jolly time. Whenever the emperor sent to know the level of completion of this prize attire, the tailor replied, ‘almost’. If anyone doubted him, he called them a ‘sinner’ for failing to ‘see’ it. Eventually, the day came when he declared ‘it’ finished and the emperor wore ‘it’ through the streets. Some of the adults admired ‘its’ beauty. Some did not see anything but kept mum, but it took a little child to be able to say all he could see was the emperor’s nakedness. I quite understand the president’s frustrations and where he is coming from. He is coming from the history of a country where corruption appears to have been woven into the very fabric of the society. It is where criminals appear to be stronger than the law. It is also where election riggers are alleged to regularly send their thugs to ‘snatch’ ballot boxes containing the people’s votes and cause the elections to be declared either incomplete or won by the undeserving. Snatching ballot boxes is a hideous crime. It amounts to robbing the electorate of their sovereignty. It robs them of their minds, intelligence, thoughts, humanness, freedom, choice and above all, their personhood. It is one thing to steal the people’s money and get away with it. It is another thing to steal their votes. This is as good as stealing the people’s intelligence, and this is where the president is coming from. He is coming from that anger. So, his directive is very understandable. I just have a little trouble understanding it, even though I have nothing to hide. I am going round and round, aren’t I? In a democracy, a sovereign nation works within the law. The greatest representative of the sovereignty and the law is the chief executive, the president. The instrument that binds and holds the state together, being the law, must be seen to work for the benefit of all. The person who ensures respect for that law is the chief executive. When he loses respect for the law, then its goodbye to that sovereignty. In this instance, in giving the shoot-at-sight order, the president was hitting at the law, not so much the criminal. Many have shown that they do not understand that order, and, to be honest, neither do I, like I said. Now, I am coming from a history of a country where the constitutive forces that are armed have regularly shot at civilians, with or without provocation. It is where such shootings have not been fully, sufficiently and satisfactorily investigated or even brought under the law. It is also where the families of such victims have had to bear their own burdens of pain alone with little or no redress from the law or compensation from the authorities. To thus give that kind of summary directive to people carrying arms in that country seems to many among us really asking for it. Election criminals must be brought before the superior law. It is true that criminals don’t always fight fair, but we cannot throw the law away because of that. That will be inviting chaos and confusion to reign supreme, to misquote Milton. It is also certain that criminals cannot be fought on their own turf. That will be suicidal for the society; it will result in naked force versus brute force. That’s right, only the turf will be standing at the end of it. The president wants good elections. It is only by respecting the law that this can be ensured. He must beat the way to that path for all of us.