Last weekend’s presidential and National Assembly elections were full of drama and surprises. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the lessons of the exercise. Political parties and candidates are counting their blessings and losses after the presidential and National Assembly polls. Mighty men of power are falling in some states. Also, flag bearers who were dismissed as paper-weight contestants are smiling home with the crowns. There is anxiety. Collation of results is still on across the federation. The two leading parties-All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic party (PDP)-are in suspense. Their leaders are monitoring the situation. Although results are being brandished in the social media, the authentic result will be announced by the umpire. The country is big. It may take some time. Many political big wigs could not deliver their polling units to their parties. This is gleaned from results by Presiding Officers at the units. They lost to the opposition. Although the poll was postponed till last weekend, there was no apathy during the rescheduled exercise. Nigerians trooped out to cast their votes without fear and inhibitions. According to observers, the polls were peaceful in many states. But, there were pockets of disruptions and violence in some areas; Okota in Lagos, Oriade Council in Osun, Anambra, Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta, Kogi, Oyo and Zamfara states. No fewer than 20 people lost their lives. The violence had nothing to do with the conduct of the polls by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Kogi State police spokesman Willia Aya confirmed that three persons were killed in the state; two in Ayingba/Odolu axis; and a police orderly in Okene. To minimise thuggery and violence, security agents should always rise to the occasion. Many believe that prosecution and conviction of offenders will deter others from taking to electoral crime. According to INEC, elections were postponed in some areas in Rivers, Anambra, Lagos, and Zamfara where the exercise was disrupted. Yesterday, at a media briefing, INEC boss Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, clarified that the commission has not cancelled polls in any part of the country. Accreditation and voting took place simultaneously across the polling units, resulting into a speedy exercise. In some areas, there were some avoidable lapses-polling officers reported late for electoral duty, there was shortage of ballot papers, and late commencement of the exercise. To observers, this is worrisome in a country that has been holding elections since 1999. All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who noted some of these anomalies, said Nigeria will overcome them through persistence, tolerance and consistent reforms. Preliminary poll results showed some variations in the outcome of the presidential and National Assembly polls. Where many people voted for a particular presidential candidate in a polling unit, they made different choices while voting for senatorial and House of Representatives candidates. This may be related to the growth of political consciousness among Nigerians. Ahead of the elections, President Muhamadu Buhari urged Nigerians to vote for candidates of their choice. He also warned against ballot snatching, saying that perpetrators will pay dearly with their lives. There was uproar in some quarters as the admonition was misinterpreted as ‘shoot at sight.’ Despite the warning, ballot snatching was recorded in some states. There is no report of brutality by security agents. They were also not partial towards any political party.  At a press conference last Friday, Police Inspector-General Muhammed Adamu said thuggery and violence will attract consequences. Yet, unpatriotic elements dared the police as they perpetuated their nefarious activities on poll day. When the results finally come, will they influence the outcome of the rescheduled governorship and House of Assembly polls? The elections will take place on March 9. Two issues have been thrown up by the elections. The first is the desirability of electronic voting, which will lessen the burden on the electoral commission. Some experts have suggested that it is long overdue. But, some people have also urged caution, saying that it cannot be sustained by the current literacy level. Instructively, some people still came out to the polling units with various kinds of receipts, which they mistaken for Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs). The second is the need for Special Election Offences Tribunal to try electoral offenders. 