For many years, residents of Ekpoma, headquarters of Esan West Local Government Area used to pray for rain not to fall even though they are predominantly farmers. Their reason was simply because of the bad state of roads network in the community. The Ekpoma township roads were first constructed during the administration of late Prof. Ambrose Alli between 1979 and 1983. Despite the road networks like the Irrua-Igueben-Ebudin-Ugbekun-Ujogba road and the completed Ubiaja-Okhuesan-Emu-Ohordua-Ewatto-Ewohinmi-Igueben constructed in other local government areas by former Governor Adams Oshiomhole within Esanland, he was still accused of not doing anything in the locality because roads in Ekpoma were in a bad state. It, thus, became a yearly ritual for the people of Ekpoma to complain about bad roads during the rainy season. What worsens the situation was when the Ekpoma axis of the Bénin-Auchi-Abuja highway collapsed. But this year, the story is different. The people are no longer afraid of the coming rains because of the nearly completed roads network in Ekpoma. Roads where work has reached advanced stage are Ekpoma-Uhumudumu road, Mousco – Ukpenu Road, Market road and Uwenlebo Road. A legal practitioner, Ehis Osagiede, who heaped praises on Governor Obaseki, for opening up rural areas especially in Edo Central for economic prosperity said ‘past administrations totally neglected Esan land and did not give them a sense of belonging which made us feel like outcast in the Edoid race. According to him, “The feedback I get from the people of Ekpoma, a town where I lived the most of my life, attended my nursery, primary, secondary schools and university, is that, Ekpoma is being transformed, and truly getting back its status of a metropolis which I have always dreamt of and certainly that which Prof. Ambrose Alli envisioned for it. It would also interest you to know that, there is nothing that has gladdened my heart as much as getting these feedbacks from Ekpoma.” Apart from Ekpoma, construction work has commenced in several farm roads in other local government areas like Uhunmwode, Owan East, Igueben, Ikpoba-Okha and Oredo. From Airport road in Bénin City, work has started at the Irhirhi-Aroobga-Obazagbon-Obagienevbosa-Oghehghe road to connect Bénin-Sapele-Warri road. A resident in Irrua, Esan Central Local Government, Mrs. Grace Omo, said the reconstruction of roads in the area would open the area up for development, noting, “It will be easier for people to commute and carry out their business. We appreciate the governor for his good intentions for us. Before now, during rainy season, the roads were terrible and difficult to pass through.” In Uhunmwode that was described as the least developed local government, Obaseki has commenced construction of the College Road at Ugieghudu, the Ehor-Ukpogo, Obadan-Ugonoba and Oke-Oruah roads. Governor Obaseki said he embarked on the roads to open up the area for more socio-economic activities and change its development narrative for the better. At Owan East, Governor Obaseki flagged off the reconstruction of the 16.2km Ihievbe-Ogbe road that cuts across Ihievbe, Ogbe-Ihievbe, Warrake communities in Owan East LGA and Egeuno community in Etsako West LGA. He told the people that work would soon commence on the Afuze-Erha road. According to the governor, his administration’s decision to invest in road infrastructure across the state was informed by the important role that roads play in economic development. “Our youths in this local council need jobs and I will create more jobs for the youths of this council area. Water is another problem our people are facing here and I have already started working on water projects, and soon water will begin to flow in the area.” Speaking on how Governor Obaseki raised the funds for the rural roads construction, a top government official who pleaded anonymity said the governor saved N500m monthly that was previously used to pay debt. The source explained that when the state government finished paying the loan with the N500 million deducted from the state’s monthly allocation, Governor Obaseki decided to continue ‘paying’ the loan in the form of savings. According to the source, “That is how we were able to save N6 billion for the state. We were paying a loan with N500 million monthly deducted from our monthly allocation and after the completion of the payment, the governor in his wisdom said the deduction should now be converted to savings for the state and that what the governor is deploying to rehabilitate, reconstruct about 400 roads across the road. “You see that we are in the dry season and this is the best time for road construction and that is why you saw the governor award the roads. The contractors are happy working because they are seeing the money there and so will be working with confidence that they will get their money once work is completed.”