ALL Progressives Congress (APC) leaders were in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, yesterday. Their mission was to perfect plans for the fall of what they called “The Berlin Wall”. They urged the people to free themselves from the stranglehold of a political figure, who, according to them, has done nothing to reciprocate their support. It was at the presidential campaign rally led by President Muhammadu Buhari, who restated his administration commitment to bringing those who abuse trust before the law. The rally held at the Metropolitan Square in Ilorin. He added that funds recovered from looters would be reinvested into the infrastructural development. The President said. “We are going to continue to take those who abuse trust before the law; collect what they have stolen and reinvest them in infrastructure. “I assure you that the undertaking we made in 2015 in the three major issues All Progressives Congress (APC) believes in (security, economy and fight against corruption), we have not failed. “Wherever I go I repeat myself on these issues so as to remind you where this country was before we came in, where we are in now and what we are able to do with the resources that are at our disposal. The people of the Northeast, as far as security is concerned, are major witnesses of our performance. “On the economy, we thank God the three previous rainy seasons were good. We made fertiliser available and reduced the prices it used to be. People are now back to the farm and nobody regretted it. We have been able to ensure food security and people are living respectable lives; in fighting corruption, we are not going to give up.” APC stalwart and Co-Chairman of the party’s Presidential Campaign Council Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu said that Kwarans had over the years, been held captive by one man. He said: “This is celebration of Kwara state’s freedom. It’s being long they have been swindling your collective patrimony… We are not here for conspiracy. We are not here to quarrel with the Saraki dynasty as Gbemisola Saraki is with us. “She is a scion of the Sarakis. We are here to reject overlord. We are here to say ‘no’ to Bukola’s enslavement. He is a betrayer. We are chastising Bukola Saraki. This is the celebration of the fall of the Berlin Wall. This is the celebration of the end of oligarchy; the emperor that has been existing for years.” Adams Oshiohmole told the crowd of supporters that the end of the Saraki dynasty had come. He presented the party’s flag to the APC governorship candidate AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. The APC National Chairman said: “For Bukola, it is finished. I cannot wait till Saturday for Kwara people to celebrate their new found freedom. Also, it will be a day for Kwara people and for Nigerian politicians that the evil that their political son has done to their political father has befallen him. “Suffice to say that for 16 years Bukola has underdeveloped Kwara and has controlled governor more than the master controls his cook. He has reduced Kwarans to mere beggars in their own political and economic life. “The confession of Bukola Saraki after his defection from APC exposes him as a selfish politician. To him, politics is about juicy jobs. That is why I am happy to be here to see the actual translation of ‘enough is enough’. “Everything that has a beginning must have an end. It is the day the people that have been at the receiving make up their minds to confront the oppressors that the oppression is over. That is the case of Kwara and the case of Bukola. I join you the people of Kwara to celebrate your new found freedom.” Information, Culture & Tourism Minister Lai Mohammed said: “During the November 17, 2018 by-election, I said our party has broken the Berlin Wall of Kwara politics. I said then that we will repeat the same thing during the 2019 elections. “The elections are now here. It is time to retire those who have held the state down and make our people and our state very poor. They have been deceiving the people. They have been blaming the Federal Government for their failure. “When they can’t pay workers’ salaries, they blame the Federal Government; when they cannot provide road they blame the Federal Government; voting them is giving them licence to continue to loot. “They say the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has not done anything in Kwara State. Tell them it is a big lie.” He reeled out the major infrastructural achievements of the government in the state. The state chairman of the party, Bashir Bolarinwa said the state under the Saraki oligarchy had been underdeveloped, saying “as a first generation state our infrastructure and institutions do not depict our status. We, unfortunately, are behind other states created much later. “It is a pity. We prayed, we hoped and made a decision that we are indeed tired of this group of reincarnate of the biblical Pharaoh. But Kwarans have decided that our own Pharaoh must let Kwara go. “Today’s rally is a culmination of our collective resolve of people to declare and let it resonate clearly that ‘enough is enough’ indeed. “After all, the tenet of democracy is that the people decide who should govern them. Since the people have oto ge, let enough be enough. They should pack and go. I appeal to you all to heed our clarion call of Oto ge (enough is enough)”.