The matter calls for an urgent solution Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) don’t expect to experience starvation in their camps. So it isn’t surprising IDPs at Teachers Village Camp in Maiduguri, Borno State, took to the streets on February 5 to protest food shortage in their camp. The Teachers Village Camp is one of the largest, with 20,000 displaced persons. The protesters, mostly women and children from Baga, Kukawa and Monguno, blocked the Maiduguri-Kano Road and caused a gridlock. They complained that they had been neglected by the government. They also said only three in 10 people in the camp got food cards that were issued by the Red Cross earlier that day. “It took the intervention of officials of the mobile police to bring the situation under control. The policemen dispersed the protesters when they reportedly fired canisters of tear gas at them,” a report said. Fatima Ibrahim, an IDP from Kukawa, was quoted as saying food had been in short supply at Teachers Village Camp for two months now. She complained: “We are hungry; our children are seriously hungry. Thirty persons share a bag of rice. We are in need of foodstuffs; please tell them to bring food for us.” Sadly, Boko Haram’s reign of terror, particularly in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states, has made about 1.8 million people homeless and caused a humanitarian crisis. The United Nations recently lamented the upsurge in Boko Haram attacks in the Northeast, and its effect on the civilian population: “It is heart-wrenching to see so many of these people living in congested camps, or sleeping outside with no shelter.” Lack of food compounds the problem. This is not the first time IDPs have protested food shortage. In one striking case last March, hundreds of IDPs from Fufore and Malkohi camps in Adamawa State, mainly women and children, had appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in their plight. The two camps had about 3,000 IDPs, largely from Borno, who had been waiting to be evacuated to their state of origin for over two years. The protesters had complained that many families in the camps were faced with critical living conditions as a result of lack of food. There is no doubt that the huge number of IDPs in the various camps poses a serious challenge to the Federal Government and humanitarian organisations. According to the Vice Chairman of the Presidential Committee on Northeast Initiatives (PCNI), Tijani Tumsah,  the Federal Government spent N10 billion on food for victims of insurgency in the Northeast in the last two and a half years. Following the launch of an education intervention programme in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states on February 4, Tumsah stated that about N54, 000, the cost of a 25-kilogrammes food basket of seven items, was spent on a family monthly. With about 1.8m IDPs in the region, feeding the displaced persons obviously requires a lot of money. “Food is a major consumer of our funds,” Tumsah said. “Before the inception of PCNI, there have been various interventions by various organisations, but when we came on board, we have to coordinate and fill in gaps wherever they exist.” Tragically, the number of IDPs has stretched food insecurity and malnutrition in the camps to emergency levels. A great number of IDPs need immediate food assistance. As the war on terror continues in the country’s Northeast, the IDPs’ food shortage problem is a terrorism-related issue crying for a solution. Food abundance should be a priority in the camps. There is room for food supply by humanitarian organisations to support the government’s efforts.  Food shortage worsens the woes of IDPs in camps that are supposed to soften their hardship.