Two Lagos State-owned schools, Sito Gbetrome Senior Secondary School, in Seme, a border town, and Badagry Senior Grammar School, Badagry, proved that their closeness to Nigeria’s border with Benin Republic was no fluke as they won the first edition of a French Quiz competition, organised by Lagos State Ministry of Education last Thursday. Ikeja Senior High School came second in the competition tagged: ‘A la connaissance de Lagos’ (how much of Lagos do you know), which held at the Immaculate Heart Comprehensive School Hall, Maryland. The three schools beat off competition from 15 other junior and senior secondary schools across the six education districts in answering general knowledge questions about the cultural, political, and geographical history of Lagos State in French. The winners, Richards Wusu and Esther Adamavo, said they did not expect to win. ”I do communicate with my teachers in French. I speak the wrong words and they correct me. I know that with this competition, I will put more effort to French Language very well. If I have the opportunity, I will study French in the future. I will appreciate the Almighy God, my principal, teachers and parents,” said Adamavo. On his part, Wusu said he had a lot of French speakers around him, including his church. ”I speak French Language when we are having French class in the church because the church I attend speaks French and some of my cousins speak French. I have registered French as a subject for the WASSCE,” Wusu said. Their French teacher, Mrs Olushope, said: ”I am very excited and that has been my prayer. In the first stage we had at Agboju, we came first and I am believing God that it will give them scholarship to study French.” Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, represented by Director, Basic Education Services, Mr Abiodun Oni, praised the Multi-lingual Centre for initiatiing the quiz competition, which according to her, challenged students to know more about their immediate environment and answer questions on them in French Language. “This competition, a new diet in our co-curricular activities, was meant to redirect the minds of students towards keeping abreast with happenings in their immediate environment, have a sense of history and develop penchant for reading wider and broadening their knowledge,” she said. She added that government’s collaboration with TV5 World Service, a multi-media platform for the teaching and learning of French Language on teacher training, facilitated the certification of the Multilingual Centre as an international language resource centre. As a result, 400 French teachers were trained to take full advantage of the terms of certification. Director, Muiltilingual Resource Centre, Mrs Taiwo Haastrup,  in her welcome address, said the mission of the centre was to train learners in foreign languages. “At the Multilingual International Resource Centre, our mission is to raise proficient indigenous and foreign language with a vision to produce world class learners of foreign and indigenous languages in a conductive learning environment as provided by the Lagos State Government. The centre among others, serves as a platform that helps French Language teachers/students enhancement in oral proficiency and efficiency for effective service delivery,” she said.