Tunji Ariyomo is the Coordinator of the Ondo Central Campaign Network and frontline promoter of the Buhari-Osinbajo’s re-election bid in Ondo State. In this interview with reporters in Akure, he spoke on why the people should vote for President Buhari. Your campaign train is seen everywhere in the state, especially in the Central Senatorial District. What are your candidate’s chances of winning? I have stated this times without number that the Buhari-Osinbajo ticket is a winning one. The president’s chance of success at the coming presidential poll is very high. On a daily basis, more and more individuals are flocking to support Mr. President. People are volunteering. People are taking up the roles of canvassers on the streets. I am leading the campaign at the heart of Ondo Central, the state capital; it is heartening to see young men and women daily reaching out to be part of the efforts. This is encouraging. Many Nigerians are of the opinion that the last four years have been economically tough for Nigerians. Don’t you think that can threaten the chances of your candidate? Thank you. There is no doubt that the entire world, not just Nigeria, is just emerging from the impact of the global financial recession. The wanton profligacy of previous governments in Nigeria masked the true state of the Nigerian economy pre-2015. That said, the Buhari-Osinbajo administration has launched high impact micro-economic initiatives that target the most vulnerable among our people. People today in their thousands and millions can readily identify with social impact programmes like N-power, like the trader-moni scheme and other social impact initiatives which can be accessed without requiring the traditional ‘long legs’ or being filial relations of those in charge as it used to be under previous leaders. How can the President win under such a circumstance? First let me say that there is no human organisation where you have more than one person that would not be exposed to typical internal wrangling and disagreement. It is a normal part of life. But I can state emphatically that Ondo State APC is united on the matter of the re-election of President Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo. That is a fact – regardless of any so called faction. That said, I must also state here that there are no factions in Ondo APC. Yes, people may have contending or even conflicting aspirations but we will continue to work to resolve such in the spirit of give and take. Recently, our members were happy and excited when they saw Mr. Governor and Senator Ajayi Boroffice embrace at a function. So, the party is united behind the Buhari-Osinbajo ticket. But some people in Ondo State claim that the state has not been fairly treated by the Buhari led administration in terms of federal projects I keep hearing this. But we need to be educated with facts. I concede that our people have the right to agitate for far more than we are getting, but what we have on-going and in the pipeline under Buhari are substantial enough to excite our people. 