Bayelsa State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure Konyefa Godwin, on Wednesday, said government had executed over 300 projects within the seven years of Gov. Seriake Dickson’s tenure. Godwin told newsmen in Yenagoa that the projects were spread across the eight local government areas (LGAs) of the state. He said that the projects included, roads, bridges and buildings, which were either completed or on-going, in both the coastal communities and the upland. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Bayelsa, a predominantly riverine state, has only four LGAs: Sagbama, Ogbia, Yenagoa and Kolokuma/Opokuma, located on land. The commissioner listed some of the completed projects to include:  the State International Airport, Ecumenical Centre, building of Annex 3, 4, 5 and 6 secretariat complexes, dualisation of Sani Abacha expressway and Azikoro road among others. Other completed projects were: the new Governor and Deputy Governor’s offices, Diagnostic centre, House officers’ quarter at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Etegwe-Amasoma road, Governor’s Aide’s block, Ogbia-Nembe road and Igbogene carriageway. Some on-going projects according to Godwin included Niger-Delta University, Senate Building, Sagbama-Ekeremor road, University of Africa Administrative block, Yenagoa-Oproma road, among others. On the administration’s seventh anniversary fixed for Thursday, February 14, the commissioner commended the achievement of the present government, especially for bringing development to the door steps of the people. “Mr Konyefa Godwin, the Commissioner of Works, and his team, hereby felicitate with Gov. Seriake Dickson and the Deputy Gov., Real Admiral John Jonah, on the celebration of their seventh year anniversary in office. “The seven years have indeed recorded about 300 projects in all the LGAs in the state. “We thank the governor for changing the length and breadth of Bayelsa, with landmark projects and infrastructure. “May the Almighty God continue to take you and the state to a greater height,” he stated.