The Federal High Court Lagos Wednesday reserved judgment in the trial of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s aide, Dr Waripamo Owei-Dudafa, for alleged N1.6 billion fraud. Justice Mohammed Idris reserved judgement after counsel adopted their final addresses. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) charged Dudafa along with Joseph Iwejuo, a staff of Heritage Bank, on a 23 count charge bordering on money laundering. The prosecution closed its case on March 16, 2018, after calling seven witnesses and tendering several exhibits. The defence had initially filed and argued a no-case submission in its defence and had urged the court to dismiss the case, on the grounds that the prosecution failed to establish any case against them. Justice Idris had in a ruling last August dismissed the no case submission. Defence had consequently, entered its defence, calling two witnesses and tendering exhibits. It closed its case in November 2018 after which the court adjourned for adoption of final addresses. Prosecuting Counsel Mr Rotimi Oyedepo argued that prosecution had been able to lead sufficient evidence in establishing a case of money laundering, conspiracy as well as concealment of proceeds of unlawful act, against the defendants. He argued that from the evidences before the court, it is clear that the various monies traced to the account of some companies such as Avalon Global Property Development Company Ltd, Seagate Property Development and Investment Ltd, were not the legitimate salary of the first defendant. He argued that the defendant employed the best form of concealment of proceeds of unlawful act, by keeping the money in an account without his identity, and engaging the second defendant to operate it. “From the manner in which these transactions were consummated, the court can see clearly a meeting of minds to commit same. “The second defendant was running an account under different identity so as to conceal the offence. “If it was a legitimate transaction, the first defendant will not procure the second defendant to run the account and receive funds in same. “All that the prosecution is enjoined to know is the reasonability of their knowledge that same constitutes an offence,” he said. Oyedepo argued that the claim by the defendant that the monies were donated to a church, was only an afterthought which the court is not expected to act upon. Defence counsel, Mr Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), urged the court to discharge and acquit the defendant as the prosecution failed to establish any ingredient of the offence against the defendant. According to him, the defendant had pleaded not guilty to three phases of counts in the charge, and the onus remained constant with the prosecution to establish the sources of the funds as alleged. According to him, none of the prosecution witnesses led any evidence or tendered any exhibits to establish essential elements of the charge against the defendant. For instance, he argued that the purported owner of the account in which monies were paid was never called as a witness and one Festus Iyoha to whom monies were allegedly handed to, was also not called as a witness. He said that this failure to call the desired witnesses was fatal to the case of the prosecution, adding that the charge against the defendant must fail consequently. “Of all the assertions made by the defendant in relation to the source of the funds, no further investigations was made by prosecution; they did not call the people mentioned by the defendant or take their evidences. “If you allege that the source of a fund is illegal then you ought to discharge that burden of proof and call witnesses to establish same,” According to him, the defendant merely acted on instruction to” pay”, adding that before a court can safely convict it ought to look at the provisions of the law and the charges. He argued that it was not a strict liability offence and urged the court to discharge and acquit the defendant. Second defence counsel Mr. Ige Asemudara also adopted his final address in urging the court to discharge and acquit the defendant. After listening to the respective submissions of counsel Justice Idris reserved his judgment to a later date which will be communicated to parties. 