The Federal Government and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation have announced a new innovative financing agreement.The agreement is aimed at strengthening both routine immunisation (RI) and broader primary healthcare (PHC) services. Under the agreement, the Gates Foundation will provide up to $15million per annum for five years to Nigeria for financing PHC. The incentive financing will be directly invested in Nigeria’s Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF), strengthening other PHC services for the poorest. The BHCPF implementation was formally rolled out on January 8, with critical PHC interventions for children, women and families in rural and underserved areas. In April last year, the Federal Government, led by the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, finalised its Nigeria Strategy for Immunisation and PHC System Strengthening, 2018-2028 (NSIPSS). The document outlined plans to spend $1.95 billion on immunisation services over 10years through the national budget and some World Bank loan financing. In June, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, committed to supporting the NSIPSS with extended donor financing as domestic resources scaled up. During this extended transition window, international donors, via Gavi, will provide Nigeria with $1 billion on top of the $1.95bn domestic commitment. Together these funds will cover procurement of vaccines, the lion share of the costs, as well as operational costs for routine and supplementary immunisation activities, and PHC system support. In spite of additional Gavi support and loan options, the NSIPSS financing strategy requires significant annual increases in funding for vaccines until the government assumes full responsibility after 2028. Speaking on the new agreement, Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, said there is no question that immunisation is an all-around ‘best buy’ for Nigeria, but “we still have limited resources”. On his part, Health Minister,  Prof. Isaac Adewole, noted that full implementation of the NSIPSS will reach millions of Nigerian children with vaccines and potentially save millions of lives. “With the NSIPSS, Nigerian government is committing to a long-term investment in its people and ensuring that children will have the vaccines they need for the next 10years and beyond,” said Country Director, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Dr. Paulin Basinga. “We know this isn’t easy given the many demands on Nigeria’s limited resources. So, we’re pleased to extend the health benefits of fulfilling this pledge even further, by supporting PHC for all of Nigeria’s children and families,” she added.