Despite the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Executive Order Five to control job losses, Nigeria still spends over $10 billion yearly to hire certified welders into the country according to the Managing Director, Mudiame International Limited, Sunny Eromosele He said the nation’s current economic situation and unemployment crisis may worsen if the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other stakeholders fail to double efforts on the developing of local content in the country. He spoke at a briefing on National Welding Capacity Development Plan in Abuja. While the executive order aimed at increasing domestic production of goods and services and creating jobs in science, technology and engineering on one hand, the order equally prohibits issuing of visas to foreign workers whose skills are readily available in Nigeria. Eromosele, who also operates Mudiame Welding Institute, stated the country lacks the strategy necessary for implementing the policy. He said the current skill gap has resulted in the influx of foreigners into the country such that the nation’s current railway projects and the ongoing Dongote Refinery are being handled by over 90 per cent Indians and Chinese. Eromosele, who noted that MAN and other stakeholders must pressure government to set up proper implementation mechanism for executive order five, especially in the areas of strengthening institutions, said critical sectors of the economy is being overlooked in the country. Eromosele described as unfortunate the fact that international communities compel their standards on Nigeria in the event of project execution in the country. He decried the idea of personnel certification system run by most International Oil Companies (IOCs), especially Saipem, Chevron and others. “We need the harmonisation of our personnel’s qualification so that the ideas of personnel certification system by some companies like Saipem, Chevron and others will be eradicated. “Role of Stakeholders must also be harmonised so the stakeholders will have common goals and role to play on all project executed depending on their areas of specialisations,” Eromosele added. He urged Buhari and the NCDMB being led by Simbi Wabote to channel efforts towards developing a key sector like welding.