A set of Human resources (HR)-related start-ups focused on combining AI, a process of automation, consulting, referrals, and match-making, has emerged across the country. DANIEL ESSIET reports. Artificial intelligence (AI), the theory and development of computer systems, which performs tasks that require human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and translation between languages, is fast establishing itself as a game-changer in recruiting. It is enabling organisations to find and hire the right candidates. Consequently, fast-growing Human resources (HR) start-ups are emerging to change recruiting, payroll, training and people’s management. One of them, Proten International, established by United Kingdom-trained motivational speaker, Ope Onaboye, is promoting an automated ranking that matches applicants with firms searching for new hires. He said finding the right people to hire had become more difficult, adding that employers are unable to find people with the right skills. He stressed that hiring had been difficult, even with an abundance of applicants. He added that determining which candidate would be the best fit for an organisation is a critical decision and the cost of a bad hire is high. Onaboye said AI is changing recruiting, helping agencies to discover and hire tech talent. He maintained that AI, when applied to talent sourcing, enhance and speed up hiring by allowing recruiters and hiring managers to identify candidates from a pool. This is because it looks beyond a resume to access information from various sources that give them deeper, broader insight. Using AI, Onaboye said, recruiters are able to help define a job posting’s “perfect fit,” better identify strong candidates from search pools, and improve their ability to fill job openings fast. He said the company was determined to create an HR-management and recruiting platform. Onaboye said the platform would help to provide organisations with valuable insights on prospective employees they are going to work with. He said the platform will use AI driven chatbots in pre-application phases to provide two-way conversations both in fielding questions from job seekers and evaluating candidate responses. Through video features that will be incorporated in the platform, he said organisations would eliminate candidates that might look good to a manager, but lack the skills or traits necessary for long-term success. He explained that AI could help unearth candidates missed by traditional screening, sourcing and recruiting methods, even if a candidate’s résumé doesn’t appear to be relevant, perhaps they have soft skills, leadership experience or other skills that an organisation may need. He noted that AI eliminates this bias by assisting recruiters. Besides, it saves recruiters time and money by filtering candidates various criteria that look beyond typical screening.