Labour and Productivity Minister Senator Chris Ngige spoke with TONY AKOWE in Abuja on the endorsement of the Peoples democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, and its implications for the Southeast. Do you think the President will win the region with the presence of Obi? Well, I don’t know. What I can tell you is that in Anambra State, we will struggle for the polls with Obi. We are not going to be pushed down like they did the last time. What do you make of the endorsement of PDP Presidential candidate by the leadership of Ohanaeze? The leadership of Ohaneze shut themselves in the foot. In a bid to please their masters, they went overboard. First and foremost, they went and did an endorsement in November 2018 and when the strategy committee of Ohanaeze confronted them in the executive, they denied. They said they were invited there just like every other person. But, the clips showed that they were at that meeting in Nike Lake and 99.9 per cent of the people in attendance were from the PDP. Professor ABC Nwosu, Dubem Onya, Prof Ogbu, Emmanuel Inwuanyawu were present. Only few came there without knowing that it was for an adoption. I am telling you that they found it difficult to conceal what they were doing. I personally spoke to the President of Ohanaeze, who is my personal friend of many years, and I said to him, we have a guest and so, he should do us the favour of moving this meeting to another day, so that we can all attend. In fact, the governors of the South East were to be involved because the governor of Anambra and Enugu will welcome Mr. President to their domain. President was to commission CBN centre of excellence build in University of Nigeria, Enugu campus. These were functions slated for that day and he said no, that he couldn’t do so because this meeting has been long fixed and I said no, the president of the nation takes precedence in appointments whenever he visits a place. Finally he said we can move the hours from 11 am and I said fine. Our president goes away from Enugu Airport by 6pm. He said no, that he can only move it to 4pm. I spoke to Ebonyi State governor, who is the chairman of South East Governors Forum, I urged him to look at the problem we have with the President of Ohanaeze,  maybe he can intervene because he is suppose to be part of this meeting. I had already contacted the governor of Anambra State, so he said he will take it up with him which he did. I personally invited the President of Ohanaeze and said, you should be at Zik’s place because this is your function. The governor of Anambra told me that he invited him. When Ebonyi governor called me that I should tell my colleagues that the meeting will be for 7pm because he had spoken with him. So by 6 pm we saw off the president at Enugu airport. Myself, Ken Nnamani, Governor of Enugu, Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Science and Technology, former Governor Chime and many others started rushing to Nike Lake and got there around 6:30 pm for a meeting fixed for 7pm and we were told that the meeting was concluded by 20 minutes past 5pm. They have endorsed the candidate of the PDP. Two things are clear; Ohanaeze is a socio cultural organisation and not meant for endorsement of any candidate. What you are supposed to be doing, is to get the candidates, hear from them and give them your chatter of demands and not going to endorse because it is there in our constitution, that we are not allying with any political party. Some people have tried it before unfortunately they got their fingers burnt. With all due respect Professor Nwabuieze in 1999 without clearance from Ohanaeze general assembly endorsed Chief Olu Falae against Obasanjo. Olu Falae was flying the flag of APP/AD alliance. Chief Obasanjo won the election and held it against the Igbos and claimed that it was late Chief Alex Ekwueme that secretly told Nwabuieze to go and endorse. Little did they know that it caused a lot of bitterness between Alex Ekwueme and his friend Nwabuieze. Nwabuieze is a strong willed man so he did that by his own judgement thinking he was doing the igbos good. Obasanjo antagonised Alex Ekwueme and all of us who are members of Ohanaeze and all of us who he felt were close to Chief Alex Ekwueme and that was how he took some ragamofian from South East and made them his blossom friends. Again at another time, they went and endorsed in 2003 and the same thing happened. In 2015 the immediate predecessor of Nwodo Prince Igaliwe and the secretary general again went and endorsed president Jonathan and said his name is Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan that he is their brother. They failed because president buhari beat Jonathan in 2015 election. They claim marginalisation because of that endorsement and even the award and allocation of votes that followed there after. Some APC members used it against all of us in the APC. They said there was no vote from us and that the election was won without any input from the South East. Obviously that affected the south east in the composition of government? That gave rise to the famous 5 percent; those who gave me five percent and those who gave me 95 percent been padelled against Mr. President. In any case, we are all human beings. If someone looks you in the face and say I will not vote for you and you eventually win the election and he didn’t vote for you and you saw he didn’t vote for you even though it is a secret ballot, but you also saw that there was allocation, tell me would you be very happy? However, I am not trying to justify anything. All I am saying is that we can be adopting candidates. The visit of a group from Ohaneze to the President, was that not an adoption? If you go and see what happened, it wasn’t an adoption, but a case of coming to say thank you for in infrastructural development that has taken place in the South East. The second Niger Bridge we can see it, he has put out N33 billion for it and no other government has done it. He put it in the national budget and put it as a flagship project in Nigeria and you are funding it. Unlike the previous governments that say it should done on an IPP bases for foreigners to invest and collect money, this president said I am building direct, I am funding direct. I queried with Okonji Iweala and Pius Anyim and the6 are still alive, when they came into the senate caucus of the South East in 2011 when we became senators. They came and told us that it is an IPP that they are doing on second Niger Bridge and investors were coming and I told them that they should clear away from here with the kind of proposal. Oweto bridge is being built for David Mark to connect Loco and Oweto for N80 billion and was funded from federal budget. At the time they came, the Niger Bridge was estimated to cost N110 billion and Madam Okonji Iweala and my friend Pius were saying that it would be built on contractor IPP and I said no and that was what happened. Today this man is building second Niger Bridge, he completed the Musullium. He is building Enugu to Okigwe to Umuahia to Aba to Port Harcourt which was abandoned in the last 16 years. He is building Enugu, Oji River, Amansil, Awka to Onitsha road which was also abandoned during PDP regime. I have no apologies to say that this man is doing well and that is what our people came to do. The people who came are members of the Ime Obi who don’t believe in what Nwodo and his group have done. A lot of us, don’t believe, the South East governors don’t believe in what they have done. Governor Obiano has voiced his own out. The Secretary to Government and delegations were with us standing there at Nike Lake and that was a total disrespect to us. I have worked in Ohanaeze, I was secretary of Ohanaeze Strategy Committee. I was deputy chairman of Ukpoko Igbo as President of Aka Ikenga. I brought Aka Ikenga from Lagos and we organised a forum for South East delegates under Abacha regime to go to the constituent assembly. We did it with our own resources. So no one will talk to me about Ohanaeze or Igbo politics to me. I have paid my dues. I was President of Aka Ikenga for 6 years. So nobody; I repeat, all these people that are parading and masquerading can’t talk to me about Ohanaeze or Igbo politics and non of them can tell me that he loves the Igbos than me. The Igbos of Anambra know that I love them more than any of these people that are parading all over the place. I put my life on the line for the people of Anambra state so that they will have freedom and I also ready to put it on the line again for the Igbo nation so that they can secure their future in Nigeria. 