•Govt urged to tighten security •Victims seek financial help Some residents of Oworonshoki on Lagos Mainland are still counting their losses in Sunday’s cult clash in which 50 vehicles and several shops were vandalised. They have appealed to the government to tighten security in their area to ensure safety of life and property. The residents told The Nation yesterday that it was not the first time hoodlums were attacking them. “We are afraid of a recurrence. People can no longer stay in their homes comfortably. Some residents have even fled to safer places because of fear. Our wives can no longer go to the market; our children are not attending schools either. Muslims can’t go to the mosque for early morning prayer due to insecurity in the community. We implore the government to assist us,” they said. A source, who pleaded anonymity, said over 100 vehicles were vandalised. He said churches were not spared, adding that three persons were stabbed by the suspected cultists. A spray painter said: “Right now, I am devastated. I have incurred great losses. When I woke up on Sunday morning, I discovered that my customers’ cars had been vandalised. I am innocent, I’ve not offended anybody to warrant this treatment. I have incurred debts. My customers are on my neck. I need over N100,000 to offset the debts I have incurred following the vandalism of my customers’ cars. I don’t know how to get the money. I am begging the government and people to help me.” A resident told The Nation that he witnessed how his vehicle was vandalised by the hoodlums, but he could not come out because he was afraid. He said: “It all started around 2am. The hooligans came to terrorise us in our community, I was in my room upstairs where I peeped through the window. I saw the way my car was vandalised. The glasses were broken, but the fear of death did not allow me to challenge the hoodlums, as they were armed.” He appealed to the government to tighten security at Oworonshoki and assist the victims financially.