In this piece, Coalition of Democrats (CODER) Convener Ayo Opadokun reviews the consequences of not according Vice President Yemi Osinbajo his deserved respect. Since I resigned from Afenifere in 2001, I have refrained from commenting on anything related with Afenifere. The story of the circumstances that led to my decision will be part of my upcoming books. I hate to pick bones with otherwise respected elders and leaders in their own rights. Yoruba culture, custom and tradition provide and allow for plurality of views and opinions but the majority of Yoruba people will always insist that the best, most logical view should prevail. Even, in the golden days of our political progenitor, averter, philosopher and statesman’ there were the Chief Akinloyes, Chief Akinjides, Chief Tos Bensons, Chief Adeniran Ogunsanyas, Chief H.O Davies, Chief Remi Fani Kayode’s etc. who were not in the Action Group or Unity Party of Nigeria who were always propagating their different and contrary views. They were not called enemies of the Yoruba people. In the re-established Afenifere which I served as its General Secretary and Spokesman for 15 years, Afenifere recognized itself as a political platform, the Yoruba name for ACTION GROUP, a name that was suggested by Chief Meredith –Augustus Adisa Akinloye just after the formal launching of the Action Group at Owo in 1951, We were always guided to appreciate that we could not pretend to be speaking for the entire Yoruba people unless we secured their mandate. That was why we established the Yoruba Leaders Forum which made a lot of successes. Including the establishment of Odua Development Council in July 2000 at the Ikeja Airport Hotel, Lagos. I don’t want to be involved in the avoidable controversy as to which is the authentic Afenifere. The very idea that some otherwise respected Yoruba people have to be claiming that theirs is the authentic Afenifere is regretable. It shows the level of damage already done to Yoruba image and reputation. Once upon a time, Afenifere’s view was the barometer used to access the correctness or otherwise of central government policies and actions. Thanks to those who begged Senator Adesanya and I for long  before they were allowed to send 5 representatives each to Afenifere meetings but collaborated to hijack and destroy the once most respected, resilient and popular platform  for their private predilections.  Now, the veil has been lifted and their mercenary conduct are being exposed. There are fundamental matters to discuss: