THE Court of Appeal, Lagos, has set aside the decision of a Federal High Court, Lagos, which convicted the First Bank Plc Chairman, Ibukun Awosika and the bank’s Managing Director, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, for contempt over a judgment debt of N17 billion. The appellate court voided the decision of the lower court on the ground that the judge erred in law when it convicted the bank chiefs for contempt on the allegation of breach of an undertaking. Justice Ibrahim Buba of the Federal High Court, Lagos had found Awosika and Adeduntan guilty of refusal of the bank to release N17 billion plus interests that First Bank allegedly guaranteed to pay the Ejama-Ebubu community on behalf of Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) of Nigeria Limited. It was in respect of the judgment debt against SPDC in an oil spill suit filed by the community. The judge, in his judgment of June 6, 2018, sentenced them to three months imprisonment, but suspended the sentencing till September 6, 2018, to enable the bank and its officials to purge themselves of the contempt. The court, in its judgment, ordered First Bank Plc to pay Ejama-Ebubu community of Ogoni in Rivers State the N17 billion bond. But First Bank Plc refused to obey the order of the court, thereby forcing Justice Ibrahim Buba to commit the first to third defendants to jail for contempt. In the substantive suit, 10 indigenes of Ejama community in Ogoniland, had through their counsel, Lucius Nwosu (SAN), at the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, sued Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Netherlands; Royal Dutch Shell Plc, United Kingdom; and SPDC over alleged oil spills that occurred when Shell operated in the community. Dissatisfied with the decision of Justice Buba on their conviction for contempt, the bank chiefs, through their lawyers, led by Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), filed an appeal. In the appeal, the bank chiefs had asked the appellate court to set aside the decision of lower court on diverse grounds, which include that the lower court erred in law, acted without jurisdiction and reached a perverse decision when it granted the respondents’ motion on notice for committal of the appellants for contempt in respect of the Order of Court dated August 5, 2010. According to the Notice of Appeal, the said order of August 5, 2010 was not made against the appellants (Awosika and Adeduntan), adding that the appellants were never parties to the suit in which the order was made and neither did order mandated the appellants to perform any act. The appellants submitted that the learned trial judge erred in law and acted without jurisdiction when he heard and determined the contempt application dated March 19, 2018, adding that the judge lacked the jurisdiction to commit the appellants for alleged ex-facie contempt of the order he had made. The appellants, therefore, asked the court to dismiss, strike out the respondents’ motion dated March 19, 2018, strike out the suit and make an order discharging and acquitting the appellants from the committal and sentence imposed by the lower court in its decision of June 6, 2018. The appellate court, in its lead judgment by Justice J.Y. Tukur on Friday, granted the prayers of the appellants and therefore set aside Justice Buba’s decision, which earlier convicted the bank chiefs.