As a way of helping to combat youth restiveness in Delta State, notable comedian, Francis Agoda, popularly known as I Go Dye has launched a new project tagged Sorting Out Raw Talents (SORT), which he says will help the young people discover a new path in life. SORT is part of his Francis Agoda Path of Honour (FAPOH) initiative for which he staked USD 5,000 on potential winner of a video skit to promote peace during the 2019 general elections with the hashtag #Istandforpeace2019elections”. Speaking on SORT, I Go Dye said: “Obviously at this point of our existence, selfless contributions that will create alternatives to engage the youths should be encouraged. We cannot continue to leave the  responsibility of supporting the youths in the hands of government  alone. In the past, programs like West Africa Idol, Project Fame and others have really helped our  talented youths in Nigeria, making the winners who they are today. So, this requires the support of us all, because its  objectives are  aimed at eradicating youths restiveness, making them to become more  resourceful and productive and we have the support of Delta State Government. We are looking at taking it across Niger Delta before we do SORT NINJA. Like they say, charity begins at home, that his why we are lunching this project SORT today in Delta State.” He said the project will  begin on February 13, 2019 and end on February 27, 2019. “The activation and auditioning will commence   in Warri on the 13th of February  at Wellington hotel from 9am to 5pm. Agbor will be next on 21st of February at City View Suite and Lounge, and the  last auditioning will   hold  on 23rd of February 2019 at Nelrose Hotel Asaba while the grand  event is on the 27th of February 2019 at the Dome Event Centre, Asaba. Project SORT will be looking out for talented youths across Delta State, it is expected to reach those in the grassroots and afford them a place to be heard and seen.” Continuing, I Go Dye said, “Winners of the auditioning  for each local government will become  FAPOH Talents and Brain Ambassadors of their local government and he will be  rewarded with the sum of N500,000 which will qualifier them winners to the grand finale. The star prize will be N2million and a brand new car, while second and third prizes are N1.5 million and N1 million respectively.” To perform at the grand finale event will be veteran comedians like I Go Save, Gordons, AY and I Go Dye himself, while 2Baba and Harrysong are expected to lead the ensemble of musicians that will perform at the event. According to him, there has been a decline in the growth level of entertainment in Delta State over the years, because opportunities to harness the talents have not been adequate. “I want to thank the state governor Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa for the partnership and support of this project  as we strive to achieve the FAPOH set goals. I also thank 2face, Harrysong, I Go Save for their support. I want to   call for individuals and cooperate organizations to support this project, because this responsibility is not for FAPOH alone, it’s for all, it empowers the youths for the future,” he said.