•Osinbajo’s escape from chopper crash was nothing but divine intervention BUT for the grace of Almighty God, Nigeria would have been thrown to mourning by now, barely two weeks to the opening of the 2019 general elections. The tension, fuelled by partisan savagery, would have been high; and no one could have known the end result. Still, thank God, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and the ruling All Progressives Congress’s (APC) running mate to President Muhammadu Buhari in the February 16 presidential election, survived the February 2 helicopter crash-landing in Offa, Kogi State, in the course of electioneering. Even more stunning: he, his delegation, which included his elder brother and the helicopter crew, escaped unhurt. It was brave for the Vice President to proceed, after that scare, on his electioneering fixtures. But it was risky too. Everyone on board that chopper, ironically including Prof. Osinbajo’s personal physician, should have been whisked to the nearest medical facility for appropriate post-trauma examinations.  Regrettably that wasn’t done – or, in any case, was not reported to have been done. We just hope that medical check has been done, to doubly assure everyone on board is fully okay. It is heart-warming that the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), the statutory agency that probes aviation accidents, has commenced full-scale investigations into the matter. That is the direction to go, and the public have a right to know what really went amiss, since the chopper suddenly lost control very close to the ground. Still, that the landing site was susceptible to wild dust would appear suspicious, lending credence to possible negligence.  Had the place been adequately grassed, like an open field for instance, there would have been little or no swirling dust, which could have caused havoc. Indeed, it was reported that the advanced chopper, which landed before the Vice President’s, needed to briefly ascend, before finally landing, to ward off the dust obscuring the pilots’ view. If that was so, could that suggest some lack of experience, in negative weather conditions, on the part of the pilots in charge of the Vice President’s helicopter? All these must be examined, not to push blames per se, but to avert possible future situations. It is also heart-warming that key players in Nigerian politics put partisan feelings aside to rejoice with Professor Osinbajo, on his miraculous escape. Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, threw politics aside to felicitate with the Vice President. So, did the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki. Of course, President Buhari had earlier serenaded his deputy on his good fortune, going on to praise his loyalty and tenacity to their joint electoral quest. That is how it should be. Politics should not be so bitter to take away our civility and basic humanity. Still, as these top politicians soared in nobility, a few others plumbed in a despicable heart of darkness, suggesting savage gloats, somewhat arrested midway, by celestial benevolence. The good thing though is that those in this dark class were just a few rascals among those who could count as known and important. Still, no one should be low-life enough to rejoice at any other’s close shave with death.  Common humanity should banish all that. We rejoice again with the Vice President and others for surviving this accident. We also pray that, no matter our partisan political differences, God will keep our leaders safe and shield our country from catastrophe.