The Minister of Communications, Mr Adebayo Shittu, says that President Muhammadu Buhari has fulfilled his campaign promise on the fight against corruption in the country. Shittu made the assertion at the N-power Volunteers National Rally tagged, “ #Rave For Buhari # Energising the FCT 4 #Next Level, held on Wednesday in Abuja. The minister said the ongoing anti-corruption crusade of President Buhari had restored the lost glory of Nigeria in the eyes of nations and repositioned the country for better. He said before the inception of Buhari administration all Federal Ministries Department and Agencies (MDAs) operated multiples accounts which made it easier for stealing and looting of public treasury. “ But as soon as President Buhari came to power he gave directive for the migration of all MDAs account into Treasury Single Account (TSA) to ensure that government has total control of its resources. “ TSA has help government to save more money for infrastructural development and social investment programmes that we all gather here to celebrate,“ he said. Shittu said that within one administration, Buhari has engaged more than 500,000 youths in N-power, saying PDP never thoughts of initiating something like N-power throughout its 16 years in power. The minister said that throughout the 16 years of PDP led administration, they had not invested in infrastructural development like during the three and half years of Buhari. According to him, in 2017 alone, Buhari led Federal Government has spend no fewer than 275 billion on federal roads constructions. The minister also said that President Buhari led government had improve electricity supply from 3000 megawatt to 7000, saying “PDP had wasted 16 billion dollars and there is no power.“ Shittu, therefore, urged electorate to ensure that Buhari return re-elected in Feb. 16, for sustainable progress and development of the country. Speaking on behalf of the N-Power beneficiaries, Mr Dapil Samuel, a visually impaired graduate from Mangu Local Government Area in Plateau State, thanked Buhari for initiating social investment programme. “ N-Power has helped to enhance my health and free me from discrimination I was going through in the past.
“ We pray for the success of President Buhari in the forthcoming elections.“ The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the rally was attended by N-power beneficiaries from the 36 states and FCT. (NAN)