The governorship candidates of the three major political parties; Dr. Alex Otti of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Uche Ogah of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the incumbent Governor of the state, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, including Blessing Nwagba of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) have signed a peace accord agreement. The peace accord deal, The Nation gathered was to ensure that there was a violent-free 2019 election on Saturday February 16 and March 2 respectively in the state as the parties square up against each other. The event which was organised by Hope Givers Initiative; a civil society organisation, in collaboration with Vision Africa radio station and the Abia State branch of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was witnessed by the clergy, Abia INEC Resident Commissioner; Joseph Iloh, Abia Commissioner of Police; Eden Okon and governorship candidates of various parties. The President of Vision Africa Radio, Bishop Sunday Onuoha of Methodist Church reminded the main actors the need to have the interest of the state at heart while they push to convince Abian electorate to vote and give them the opportunity to govern the state. Onuoha said signing the peace accord was to ensure that the governorship candidates and other elective position seekers including their supporters were ready to accept the outcome of the elections. Joseph Iloh, the INEC Resident Commissioner who said that the importance of the peace accord cannot be overemphasized said there was the need to sustain the prevailing peace in the state before, during and after the polls which required the full cooperation of all the candidates and their supporters. Iloh assured that the commission would provide a level, playing field for all the political parties and their candidates. On his own part, the Abia State Commissioner of Police, Eden Okon disclosed that the command has put necessary measures in place to ensure that there was adequate security in the state during and after the polls. The Police Commissioner who was represented by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Godwin Akoh, said, “We have enough security on ground. Nobody should be afraid or feel threatened, because police are ready and prepared to protect Nigerians during the elections.’’ In their separate speeches, the guber candidates among others expressed their readiness to abide by the content of the peace accord during the polls.  According to Gov. Okezie  Ikpeazu said, “It is my desire and sincere wish that no single blood will be spilled during this election. “I have express faith in the Prof. Yakubu-led INEC and the capacity of our REC to do the needful to ensure that nobody was allowed to do away with the result sheet.’’ While Ogah of the APC said he had the interest of the people of Abia at heart and would continue to contribute to the growth of the state. “I am a man who stands for peace. We will ensure that the activities of my supporters are governed by peace.” Otti also, spoke in a similar vein, saying that he believed in peace and would do everything within his power to maintain peace and unity in Abia. “I call on my fellow candidates that have appended their signature to be honest to execute what we have signed.”