A forensic examiner, Mr. Raphael Onwuzoribo, yesterday told an Ikeja Special Offences Court that a Badagry prince, Semasa James,  forged the signatures of the administrators of his late father’s estate. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Special Fraud Unit (SFU), alleged that Semasa fraudulently converted a N500 million property belonging to the late monarch, Oba Afolabi James of Kweme Land of Badagry, to personal use between 2000 and 2017. Under cross-examination by Mr. Martins Oyigbo, Semasa’s defence counsel, Onwuzoribo, a former Assistant Suprintendent of Police (ASP), with 27 years experience in forensic examination, said his analysis proved that the defendant forged the administrators’ signatures. The administrators are: Mrs. Mausi Alakija James, the late Mr. Bolarinwa James and Justice Adebayo Adeniji. “My employer, Master Patterns Forensic Services Ltd., received a purchase receipt, deed of assignment and the international passport of Bolarinwa James to analyse,” he said. Onwuzoribo showed the court a side-by-side comparison of the samples of the real signatures of the administrators and the purported fake signatures. He said he found the administrators’ real signature samples given to him by the complainant for analysis to be clear and legible. “During the analysis, I was able to extract these master patterns. “My Lord, these are the doubted (forged) signatures and these are the undoubted (original) signatures. “I used a doculus lumus analyser, past scanner analyser, dosier analyser, magnifier and other methods to arrive at this conclusion,” Onwuzoribo said. Semasa is standing trial with Afolabi Kazeem, who the SFU alleges is an accomplice to the crime. In the seven-count charge, Semasa is charged with stealing, forging of company resolution, fraudulent disposing of trust property and forgery. He and Kazeem are jointly charged with conspiracy to defraud and cheating. Following Onwuzoribo’s testimony, Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo adjourned till February 8 and 13.