A Lagos lawyer, Mr. Ogedi Ogu, has advocated severe punishment for those who defile girls and parents who accept out-of-court settlement. Ogu, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the weekend, said out-of-court settlement between families of a defiled girl and the suspect should be made an offence on its own. He said the defilement of underage girls was on the increase, adding: “Therefore, all avenues to curb the menace should be exploited.” The lawyer said offenders should face the law. “Appropriate punishment should be given to offenders and the issue of attempt on settlement by families of the victim and the suspect should be made an offence on its own,” he said. Ogu urged the victims’ families to speak out and avoid being intimidated by the society. Mrs. Helen Ibeji, the coordinator of the Girl Child Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), advised that certain cultural practices that encouraged molestation and defilement of the girl-child be abolished. She suggested that certain mechanism be adopted to monitor traditional practices inconsistent with the constitution, adding that such traditions be declared null and void. Ibeji encouraged parents to create time to monitor their children, especially the girl-child who is more vulnerable. “Parents should ensure that their daughters do not dress indecently. This exposes the girl-child to sexual molestation. Many people will say dressing doesn’t matter, but it does matter,” she said. Ibeji urged the government to provide transition centres where girls, especially those defiled by their relatives, could be rehabilitated. “Victims should not live under one roof with the same man who violated them. A victim must be separated from the offender. “At the transition centre victims will pick up their lives and start all over, but not in the glaring eyes of their violators,” she said. The coordinator suggested that more workshops and seminars to sensitise people on the need to report such violations be done from time to time and such seminars be organised also in the rural environs.