Residents of Ikpoba-Okha/Egor federal constituency were in joyful mood last week. They were happy over the inauguration of State of the art skill acquisition centre and an Information and Communication Technology center by the lawmaker representing the constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon Ehiozuwa Agbonnayima. The skill acquisition centre was built at Egba Community while the well-equipped ICT centre was constructed at the Western Boys High School at Iwogban quarters of the constituency. Hon. Agbonnayima was an old student of the school and was also the School Prefect. Speaking at the launch of the ICT, Hon Agbonnayima said he built the ICT centre to enable the students be in tandem with modern computer skills and technology. He said he was happy to provide his alma-mater with a state of the art ICT centre. Agbonnayima noted that he is focused on technological training and empowerment of youths by providing skills acquisition that would drive wealth creation adding that Nigeria’s successes among comity of nation’s would be driven by technological advancement of the youths. He stated that his dream is for students in his constituency to be exposed and introduced to modern technology at the early stage of their academic pursuit. His words, “Modern technology has improved our lives because it is an alternative for all difficult task. “As in other developed countries, students and youths of my constituency must at an early stage in their academic pursuit be exposed and introduced to modern technology. “This solar powered ICT centre will further inspire our students into the world of modern science and technology. With what we have in this centre, we will be building network of entrepreneurs in the ICT world. “I am happy doing this for my younger students. I came to this school from the village and today God has blessed me why will I not help others?” Principal of the school, Mr. Amenze Efe, said the senoir students have begun making use of the centre. He expressed optimism that the students would find it easy to pass the JAMB Computer Based Test after training at the centre. Some of the students who spoke said it was their first time. A student, Ekogiawe Isaac, said he learnt how to operate computer at home but he was happy that his school now has an ICT centre. “Before now, we were only taught theory in the school. Other students will now know how to work with a computer. Favour in SS2 said he felt good sitting in front of a computer for the first time. “As a science student, it is good to know things about computer. I didn’t know anything about computer.” At the inauguration of the skill acquisition centre at Egba Community, Agbonnayima said he built he place to stop the scourge of irregular migration and human trafficking. According to him, “It is a thing of shame that graduates are produced yearly without jobs. The solution to the scourge of unemployment is not rocket science but to create opportunities for young ones to learn skills and become self-employed. “I urged private individuals, state and local government to ensure youths are engaged in this centre to learn how to create jobs.” Chairman of Ikpoba-Okha Local Government, Dr. Eric Osayande, said his administration has been waiting for such opportunity where youths in the locality could be trained. He assured the lawmaker that the council would make good use of the centre.