The Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA)   will not go back on the adoption of the treasury Single Account (TSA) for its transactions, its Managing Director, Captain Fola Akinkuotu, has said. He spoke at a meeting with agents and representatives of operators of non-scheduled flights. The meeting, which held at  the agency’s headquarters in Lagos, discussed, among other things,  how to address concerns, which may arise from the cashless payment system. Akinkuotu said TSA is a Federal Government’s policy that demanded compliance from all stakeholders. He appealed to the operators to embrace the new system as the entire world is going cashless, assuring them that the new system would yield them positive results. “This is an innovation that would not only improve and sanitise the nation’s financial system but also ensure accountability and transparency in the long run. If we desire an aviation industry that is globally competitive, we have to imbibe global best practices,” Akinkuotu said, noting that the risks associated with the old system of carrying cash around have made it not fashionable. Explaining further, the NAMA helmsman advised that all financial transactions must be done  into the NAMA TSA account domiciled with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He emphasised that the era of paying cash to Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) for delivery to the CBN had become history. Speaking on behalf of the non-scheduled operators, the Managing Director of Sunrise International Air Support Limited, Mr. Sunny Ebisue, expressed gratitude to NAMA for organising such a forum, saying that it had shed more light on some of the grey areas that attended the new payment system. He however called on the agency to sustain such interaction with operators to keep them abreast with new developments. It will be recalled that in a circular, dated November 7, 2018, the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation dated November 7, 2018 warned Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other government entities to desist from maintaining accounts with banks without the President’s approval, saying that all affected Federal Government-owned and controlled MDAs and other entities must close DMB accounts, in local or foreign currency and transfer them to the TSA sub-account at the CBN. As part of the resolutions at the meeting, an operator or its representatives is to open a domiciliary account for its financial transactions with NAMA  using a smart phone. A representative can also open a domiciliary account, transfer an amount of foreign currency in advance into NAMA account at the CBN to enable it debit the operator, any time it does business with the agency.