 *Fans to pay between N1,000 to N3,800 *We are ready for Nigeria others declares host nation Flying Eagles of Nigeria will know their group opponents at this year FIFA under 20 World cup holding in Poland on February 24th. World soccer ruling body FIFA made this known on Tuesday even as organisers revealed that tickets sales for the championship will open on February 26th. The announcement also marks exactly 100 days to the kickoff of the championship in which four African countries  Nigeria,Mali,  Senegal and  South Africa have already been listed among qualified countries. Organisers further revealed that fans will be paying a considerably reasonable fee ranging from N1, 000 to N2, 850 for category one ticket and N1, 900 to N3, 800 for cagtegory two tickets. The Championship will hold in six Polish cities of   Bielsko-Biala, Bydgoszcz, Gdynia, Lodz, Lublin and Tychy Records show that Since its inception in 1977, the FIFA U-20 World Cup has attracted more than 13 million fans from around the globe to its Venues. “Tickets for the first-ever FIFA competition to be hosted on Polish soil will be available on 26 February in two categories and start at PLN 10. The only official platform on which to secure these tickets will be FIFA.com/tickets/U20WC” the information said FIFA Deputy Secretary General Zvonimir Boban highlighted the importance of the tournament when he added “I was blessed to be able to play in both the opening match and final of the FIFA U-20 World Cup 1987 in a full stadium. That was a once-in-a-lifetime experience that really shaped my career. Poland is a country with a big football tradition and Polish fans will provide the appropriate setting for an exciting competition. Celebrating this tournament in Poland in the year of the Polish FA’s centenary and with a legend like Zbigniew Boniek as the Polish FA President is definitely something very special,” The decision to have minimal ticket fee is not unconnected with an attempt to ginger massive attendance as revealed by president of Polish football Association Zbigniew Boniek We want the stands of our stadiums to be filled with fans. Attractive ticket prices will surely contribute to a high attendance. In less than two weeks, we will be hosting the official draw ceremony in Gdynia, and ticket sales is due to kick off soon afterwards. We encourage all fans to mark the dates of the tournament in their calendars and before that, of course, go ahead and buy tickets. You simply cannot miss such an event in Poland,” he enthused