…says, President deserves 2nd term Mouthpiece of Northern Nigeria, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has endorsed the candidature of Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the next Saturday poll. It would be recalled that Professor Ango Abdullahi led faction of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) had recently endorsed the candidacy of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). ACF which prides itself as the political compass of the North said, it has carefully studied the antecedents of major presidential candidates, the manifestoes and policy documents of their parties, alongside the need for social, political and economic stability in the country, it has come to conclusion that, President Muhammadu Buhari deserves a second term to consolidate on his achievements. The forum which declared its stand in statement personally signed by its Acting Chairman, Alhaji Musa Liman Kwande said, ACF’s stand was informed by the strides taken by the Buhari administration to improve and reposition the nation economically, with the multi-billion Dollar Mambilla hydropower project, the exploration of oil in Gongola Basin of the Benue trough, the Baro inland port, the North East Development Commission, the ongoing rail line projects nationwide, and other critical infrastructural development projects. According to the statement, “In continuation of role of ACF as the political compass of the North, the leadership under the Chairmanship of Mallam Adamu M. Fika Wazirin Fika GCON, Chairman Board of Trustees of the Forum at a meeting today 12th February 2019, has evaluated critical national issues, especially the political situation in the country and its attendant consequences for the continued peace, unity and progress of our dear country Nigeria. “The ACF takes note of the state of the political situation as the nation goes into another round of elections, where tensions are heightened as a result of intense campaigns, lobbying and horse-trading among political actors. “The ACF takes special note that major political parties have nominated prominent northerners, for the February 16th 2019 Presidential Elections. The Forum has carefully studied the antecedents of major presidential candidates, the manifestoes and policy documents of their parties, alongside the need for social, political and economic stability in the country. “The ACF is therefore, of the view that certain attributes such as clarity of thought, unity of purpose, content of character and morality of the candidates, their leadership qualities, performance and general acceptability of the candidates contesting for not only the office of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria but also for other elective offices should guide voters in making their choices. “The decision on who to elect should not be based on any form of inducements, mob hysteria, intimidation or false promises, but by calm and deliberate consideration of the candidates’ qualities of leadership, performance and moral standing in their public and private lives. “Furthermore, other considerations such as capacity to tackle security challenges, fight corruption, and boost the economy by way of diversification away from over dependence on oil, by infrastructural development in order to promote growth. The integrity of the candidate to raise the image of Nigeria in the comity of nations is equally important in the election. “ACF also calls on the politicians and their supporters as well as the electorates to avoid all forms of violence before, during and after the elections. This is because violence is never a solution to any grievances. It not only destroys our democratic process but also lives and property. Democracy is a contest of ideas and reasons. “Also, ACF urges the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to live up its promise and assurances for credible, free and fair elections. “ACF equally calls on the Police and other security agencies involved in providing security to the election process to remain neutral and professional in their conduct.” It said.