An excavator operator, Samuel Okon, who allegedly absconded with a Swamp Buggy Machine valued at N126, 800,000 was on Wednesday brought before an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court in Lagos. Okon, 36, was arraigned by the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB) Force Headquarters, Obalende, Lagos before Mr Y. O. Aro-Lambo on a three-count charge of conspiracy, stealing and obstruction of policemen on lawful duty. Prosecuting Sergeant Friday Mameh said Okon committed the offences on December 31, 2016 at May Fair Garden, Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State. He said Okon was hired by Black Apple Ltd, Lekki, to carry out excavation work at Lekki with the Swamp Buggy. Okon, after finishing the work, did not return the Swamp Buggy to Black Apple but secretly began working with another contractor with the Swamp Buggy. The court heard that the company tried to reach Okon on phone but his lines were switched off. He never returned to the office. Mameh said: “The company reported the matter to the police, which, sometime last year, tracked Okon to his home in Ajah and arrested him. “Last June 28, the FIB granted Okon adminstrative bail pending conclusion of investigation, after he brought his flatmate, Opara Mark, as his surety and fulfilled other conditions.” Okon allegedly absconded afterwards. The police, last July 18, charged Mark before Magistrate Aro-Lambo on two counts of aiding Okon’s escape and obstructing the course of justice. Opara pleaded not guilty and was granted bail. Mameh said in the course of Opara’s trial, Okon’s phone number became active and the FIB tracked his line and found his hideout, following which he was arrested and arraigned. Opara’s case was subsequently discontinued. Mameh told the court that Okon’s conduct infringed sections 174b, 280, 287 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Okon pleaded not guilty. His counsel, Mrs. Helen Ibeji applied for his bail “in the most liberal terms. “The defendant has no previous criminal record and has credible sureties willing to stand for him,” Ibeji added. In a bench ruling, Magistrate Aro-Lambo granted Okon N2million bail with two sureties in the like sum. The sureties must be owners of landed property in Lagos and have a credible source of income, among other conditions. He remanded Okon in prison custody pending the fulfillment of the bail and adjourned till April 3.