The Federal Government, the Department of State Security and the Police on Tuesday launched investigation into an alleged abuse of some pupils of the Abuja School for the Deaf in Kuje. There had been panic at the school after suspected ritualists invaded it, abducted and molested some pupils, while initiating some others. One of our correspondents learnt that some parents of affected pupils first raised the alarm about three weeks ago after they were said to have noticed some ugly developments on their children. The number or identity of the assailants was yet to be ascertained. A parent had claimed on Brekete (a breakfast programme on Human Rights radio) in Abuja on Tuesday that her son who attends the school had been molested. It was gathered some parents also brought the matter to the attention of the Federal Ministry of Education who contacted the Federal Capital Territory Administration, the government authorities overseeing the school. A source told one of our correspondents that DSS operatives were embedded in the school to verify the claim of alleged molestation of the pupils. The source said no case of molestation was found at the end of the investigation by the DSS. Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, told one of our correspondents on telephone the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, was saddened by the alleged development in the school when he heard about it. He said the government immediately swung into action by carrying out a preliminary investigation into the matter. Echono said after the investigation, no single sign of molestation was found. The Permanent Secretary said the government again visited the school on Tuesday with a team of medical doctors and ordered a thorough examination of some of the pupils alleged to have been molested. Echono said 40 pupils were examined by a team of doctors and gynecologists and no sign of any form of molestation found on their bodies. The Permanent Secretary said: “We have done full investigation, involved the DSS and did surveillance for ten days. “We embedded DSS operatives among the staff claiming they were posted there just to be watching day and night in the school to try and find out if anything unusual is going on. “I called 64 different parents to find out if there had been any case, even of a child dying in the school not to talk about missing. There was no such case. “We did 40 examinations today physically with their parents, covered no such single case out of the 40 that we did today. Medical doctors and gynecologists, did the test today and not a single case have been found. “We are going to address a press conference when we finish.” A statement issued by the Assistant Director (Information), FCT Secretariat, Anthony Ogunleye said: “The attention of the Education Secretariat has been drawn to the alleged abuse of a pupil of the Abuja School for the Deaf Kuje as broadcast by an Abuja based radio station. “The Secretary for Education is deeply concerned by the very serious allegations especially since the well-being of a minor is concerned. “While the highly emotional broadcast has prompted an investigation by the Nigerian Police, the Secretary for Education has also ordered an internal investigation into the matter. “While we await the result of the investigation by the law enforcement agencies we want to assure all parents and guardians that their children and wards are quite safe in our custody. “We therefore enjoin them to remain calm and all enquiries can be sent to either the Secretary for Education or the Chairman, FCT Universal Basic Education Board.” When contacted, the Spokesperson for the FCT Command, DSP Anjuguri Manzah, simply said: “We are aware of the case and we are investigating it.”