No fewer than three people were feared dead and over 30  others fainted yesterday while waiting for the campaign team of the People’s Democratic People (PDP) presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar at Sani Abacha Stadium in Kano. Unconfirmed reports claimed that the death of the three people was as a result of a clash between rival PDP groups outside the stadium. A large crowd of PDP supporters had gathered at the venue for several hours, waiting for Atiku’s and his team’s arrival. It was gathered that people fainted as a result of suffocation inside the stadium. Also yesterday,  the Kano  home of State Chairman of the ruling APC, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, came under attack by some PDP members, according to the police. Confirming the attack, Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Haruna Abdullahi Kiyawa, said “the attackers were by suspected PDP members”. However, Abubakar, when he arrived, said the country is witnessing an unprecedented setback in the areas of agriculture and the economy under the All Progressive Congress (APC) government. The PDP presidential candidate’s campaign train arrived at the Sani Abacha Stadium at about 5:55p.m., after the mammoth crowd had anxiously waited for several hours. Atiku, who was visibly elated over the mammoth crowd, was clad in Kwankwasiyya red cap and white baban riga. The PDP Presidential candidate said, if given the mandate in the February 16 presidential election, he would support the revitalisation of agriculture and the economy. According to him, “I will ensure that among my priorities would be the revitalisation of agriculture, industries and commercial activities to boost the economy, which has been killed by the APC government.” He noted that Kano, which is nerve centre of commercial activities in the North, was experiencing backwardness in business and commerce. He said: “Are you going to vote for PDP? If you vote for PDP from top to bottom and bottom to top, PDP government will revitalise business and the moribund industries in Kano. We will also boost agriculture.” Also speaking, the PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus told the PDP supporters that the Kano rally represents a revolution and a pointer that Kano people has embraced PDP. Director General of Atiku Campaign Organisation, Senator Bukola Saraki lamented: “There is hunger in Nigeria. The APC government has brought hardship on the people. There is need for us to vote them out.” Former Kano State Governor Rabi’u Musa Kwankawso said the huge crowd was sending a message to Aso Villa that PDP has already taken over Kano. He said: “Today, Kano people and particularly, the youths have shown that Kano is for PDP and Kwankwasiyya.” Kano State PDP Chairman Suleiman Rabi’u Bichi said PDP would sweep the polls from top to bottom in Kano, “because Kano belongs to PDP”.