Are there pending issues with the Lagos-Ibadan speed train? Many Nigerians would readily say yes. ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes. When the Federal Government had a test run of the speed train from Iju, Lagos to Abeokuta the penultimate week, it was with a promise to offer free commuter service to Nigerians for three months. Fielding questions from reporters after the  test run, Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi, who performed the function, accompanied by Ogun State Governor  Senator Ibikunle Amosun and the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, promised Nigerians a free ride for three months. But checks as at last Saturday showed that nobody has benefited from the free ride on the corridor, and no Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) official is willing to offer explanations on why nothing has happened on the much publicised line since February 6, when the test run held. Where are the trains? A tourist, ‘Lanwa Adeyemo, who wanted to spend some time at the Olumo Rock in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, could not hide his disappointment last week, after three fruitless shuttles to Iju. He had to proceed to Abeokuta by road with a colleague. “Where is the free train? When will the shuttle leave Iju? And how can we board it?” he asked. Adeyemo is not alone. Many Nigerians who had looked forward to boarding and enjoying a free ride in the air-conditioned  first class coaches, which are expected to run the Lagos-Abeokuta corridor, were disappointed. To them, it is frustrating that the train was yet to begin the promised shuttle. “When they knew they were not ready for service why then did they promise?”one of them reasoned. On the contrary, the NRC Lagos District Manager, Mr Jerry Oche,  who is in-charge of the new operation , said the Lagos-Abeokuta line is working. “The Lagos-Abeokuta line is working, but just couldn’t run on  Friday. It would resume on Tuesday,” Oche assured. Although the District manager could not provide much information on  how many passengers had boarded the train since the test run, he was optimistic that more people would patronise  it as they become aware of its operations. According to Oche, the line, when fully operational, would be oversubscribed, given Lagos proximity to Ogun State. Although the test run was a little above an hour between Lagos and Abeokuta, when the speed locomotive finally arrives the 54-kilometre ride would  be made within 45 minutes . Oba Gbadebo expressed joy that with the stoppages at all the stations, travelers would be able to make Abeokuta, from Lagos or return within 45 minutes when the service begins fully. To the monarch, whose great grand- father rode on the narrow gauge when it was test run in 1906, witnessing the take-off of the speed train is epoch-making. The prognosis had pointed at the possibility that many travelers would opt for the train because it is cheaper and safer. Amaechi  said he has directed that two more coaches be diverted from Itakpe-Warri line, which they presently shuttle, to Lagos-Abeokuta and ultimately Ibadan, when it is finally delivered. “We anticipated that more people would like to patronise the trains on the Lagos-Abeokuta-Ibadan line and I have directed that two coaches be brought from Itakpe-Warri line to bring the one on this line to four. These four lines would serve this  line until more coaches arrive,” Amaechi said. The test run Many had wondered why the government would promise three-month free ride window to Nigerians on the Lagos-Abeokuta corridor. Proffering an answer in one of the monthly routine meetings, Amaechi said the free ride is to ensure that Nigerians enjoy the speed train while the tracks are being put to test. To him, it is better than freely burning the fuel on shuttling the locomotives on the tracks during the test run. The contractor, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), had given a commitment to deliver the rest of the 156 km project with a running bill of $1.6 billion within 90 days. Within the period, the CCECC would start working on delivering on the 10 modern railway station meant for the corridor. While four of these stations – Apapa, Lagos, Agege and Agbado, are in Lagos State, to be sited in the western districts are Kajola, Papalanto (Itori), Abeokuta and Olodo stations, in Ogun State, while the Ibadan end of the project would have Ibadan and Omi-Adio stations. All the stations are to have facilities such as conveniences, shopping malls, police posts, and a park and ride option and round the clock service when fully on stream. Although work has begun at the new Lagos station (known as Ebute Metta Junction EBJ), located at Alagomeji, in Yaba, all other stations are yet to take off. Between Iju and Abeokuta, where the tracks presently terminates, are eight stations, and stakeholders are already expressing doubts that some of them may not take off, not to talk of materialising in the next 90 days. Speaking at the test run event, Amaechi  indicated that the stations may actually take longer, adding that the government expects them to come on stream within a year. “We are happy the third standard gauge in Nigeria, which is Lagos-Ibadan line, has taken off. Itakpe-Warri is the first while Abuja-Kaduna is the second. “The line also brought the first standard gauge tunnel in Nigeria to Ogun State. This train will run free of charge and I will compel them to do about three trips a day so that more persons can go to work in the morning and come back in the evening. “We are also trying to build our stations and in a year’s time, we would have finished the stations and everything will be running normally and then you will be paying for your tickets.” Amaechi’s position has left many to wonder what happens after the three months free ride, especially since the stations, which are to provide passengers with the requisite comfort when they want to obtain their tickets and wait for the train, are yet to be in place. “Worst case, Nigerians may have to make do with temporary arrangements to purchase tickets and platforms to board and disembark from the trains at each of the stations,” said the railway corporation’s Managing Director Mr Fidet Okhiria. But while Nigerians await clearer directive from the corporation on the modalities for operations, Governor Amosun has lauded the project. The governor said the Federal Government must be commended for bringing life-changing infrastructure closer to the people. “This is a life-changing event for us and I congratulate all Nigerians because this infrastructure will take Nigeria to the comity of emerging markets and nations. “There is no way there can be any socio-economic development without modern transportation infrastructure. What we are doing today will revolutionalise Nigeria in a very special way. The travel time between Abeokuta and Lagos has drastically reduced and that will affect so many things and the  way of life of our people. It will affect prices of agricultural commodities as our people in Abeokuta and environs can take advantage of the ready market in Lagos, and those trading in other commodities can also readily go to Lagos to trade and return on time. It would also affect the housing stock and burst the high rent rate in urban metropolis of Lagos as many people can live in Abeokuta and its environs and commute to their work place in Lagos, without stress,” he said. The governor, who stressed the import of the event, which he described as historic for the state, said: “This is not a political forum, we are not window dressing, we are simply working our talk and not campaigning.” The governor also said the commencement of the ride will reduce the pressure on most roads, boost productivity and create more employment. He said: “With this ride, pressure on our roads will reduce and goods that used to take days through the roads to get to their final destination will get there in good time and in good condition. Burden will be off our roads. “This will also create employment and transfer of technology by the Chinese to our people, who are about 90 per cent of workers on site since the construction of the project began.” Chairman Senate Committee on Land Transport, Senator Gbenga Ashafa hinted that the project has the potential to open jobs to qualified Nigerians, adding that over 11,000 workers had already been employed by the NRC and about 2,000 others are presently undergoing study in China ahead of full operation of the rail line. To Ashafa, the railway is the way to go if the nation is to tackle traffic gridlocks that are taking over all the nation’s urban centres. Without a functional intermodal system, the nation, according to him, will continue to grapple in the dark for solution to the transportation crisis that has continued to debase the country.