The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, on Wednesday expressed confidence that President Muhammadu Buhari will win Saturday’s presidential election with about 80 percent of the votes. He spoke with State House correspondents in Abuja as he based his verdict on the achievements of President Buhari’s administration; the vigorous campaigns of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC); and the president’s fair treatment of all parts of the country. He said “From the campaigns on the field, all the fillers we had, the support we had from the East, the West, the South, the North and all parts of Nigeria and the words of the president, the capacity of the campaign team and campaign machinery, the intellectual and intelligent words, words that hold and convince Nigerians that President Buhari is the best person to go for a second term as president. “This makes us confident and I am sure that in every state of the federation, President Buhari was able to show what he has done for that state. “In every state of the federation the president showed that he was not partial, that he is not in any manner tilted against one state of the country or favoring another part of the country.  He has shown that he is president for all and exclusively for none.”  he said The presidential aide said that President Buhari has identified with all, including the poor, the rich, the disabled and even those who could be called the low of the society. “With this, we are sure that we will win the election and the APC will come up with the majority of the members of the House of Representatives, great majority in the Senate and President Buhari of the APC will be declared as president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Senator Enang said that President Buhari has exhibited the character of a true democrat by not interfering in the work of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. He said that the president and the electoral body were not “working in tandem to postpone the election.” On whether there should be sanctions for the INEC for postponing the elections despite the long period it had to prepare and the support given to it by the President, Enang said the best that could be done was to move forward and let the elections be conducted. “The best we can do is to make sure that we consciously give maximum support to the INEC. “The best we can do is speak less of hard words against them and give them comfort so that all Nigerians, the international community and the product of the election will be taken as the best decision. So, we will not talk of sanctions now.“ Enang also said that all international protocols concerning diplomatic relations must be respected by all. “There is what we call diplomatic protocol and when you are in a country, you are subject to the laws of that country. “There are limitations and red lines, which you must not cross.  When you cross the red lines in diplomacy, you are capable of being declared persona non-grata. “But Nigeria has not gotten to that stage and that is why it is issuing simple reminders as to what is the best international practice in diplomacy.” Dismissing allegations that the Resident Electoral Commission in Akwa Ibom State could be working in the interest of the government of the state, Enang said it did not matter and would not affect the outcome of the election. “Knowing that we will the election, I had occasion to say that even if it were Secondus, chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, that conducts election in Akwa Ibom State as REC, APC will win the election. “As we are confident that we will win the election, we will speak less of the electoral body. “If we want to concentrate on that we will lose focus because what the opposition intends to do is to make us go after some issues while they prepare to attack with all kinds of things,” Senator Enang said.