Emmanuel Ironbar is just 12. But he lives on the street of Calabar, the Cross River State capital. His stepfather, who lives in Ikot Edem Ndarake in Akpabuyo Local Government Area of Cross River State, threwn him out of the house on suspicion of being a ‘witch’. Ndarake, who is one of the hundreds of children on Calabar streets, told  Niger Delta Report that his stepfather, a deacon, was told by his pastor that he was a witch responsible for his bad luck. “They used to maltreat me, and then they threw me out of the house. They didn’t allow me to enter the house to sleep because my stepfather is a deacon and one pastor says I am winch meanwhile I am not a winch. My stepfather got angry and threw me out of the house. I used to sleep in somebody’s church. Before one Uncle Christopher came and saw me and gave me food before they brought me here.” Emmanuel has hopes of completing his education and dreams of taking up baking as career. “I want to be a baker. I want to bake cake,” he said. Ten-year-old Blessing Timothy’s story is not so different from Emmanuel’s. The little girl, due to maltreatment by her family, also found herself on the streets, without any care. She also has hopes of a normal family and going back to school and becoming a medical doctor. For 16-year-old Augustine Peter, he had to drop out of school in Primary Two and has been living on the streets since then. “Since I was small, I wanted to go to school. I stopped in Primary 2. If I see somebody that would support me to go into school, I would like it. I want to be an engineer. But for now would not mind doing a job like a barber to sustain myself. I stopped going to school when I was five. My mother died when I was eight years. So since then I have been living on the streets and picking iron, sometimes people would see me and call me a thief. When I go to a place, the people would pursue me saying I am the one who steals, but I do not steal. I want to learn a hand work now. I would like to go back to school. If I see someone to support me fine, but I need to learn hand work to survive,” Augustine narrated. Also 16-year-old Felix James, from Akpabyuo Local Government Area, has not been to school since he finished primary school. “I did not write common entrance because my father married a new wife and said he does not have money to put me in school. From there I came to the street, as there was nobody to take care of me. So I was taking care of myself on the streets. I want to go back to school. I would like to be a businessman like Dangote. I also sing. In fact I performed here today. If someone comes to help me promote my songs, I would be happy. So people would hear my song. They should hear our cry,” he said. The above children are just four out of 52 taken off the streets into a 21-Day Fun Camp with the aim of properly reintegrating them into society, not just by taking them into institutionalised homes, but into a proper family setting, so they can grow up like their peers in their homes. The rest have similar experiences and it is quite moving to listen to the sad tales of these children who have been thrown in the streets and who wish to be properly integrated into society just like other children. Hundreds of children or more still roam the streets of Calabar with even sadder stories. This effort is that of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), working with Society For Youth Development and Rescue Initiative (SYDRI), Basic Right Counsel Initiative (BRCI) and Cross River State Ministry of Sustainable Development and Social Welfare to implement a project that is aimed at re-integrating street children to their homes and to foster homes through Camp Activities in order to prepare them for reunification with their blood relatives or foster careers.  Children living on the streets have been a problem in the Cross River State capital  for a long time and despite efforts by government and other organisations in the past, the challenge has persisted. This time, this effort, which is a pilot of a new method to deal with the programme intends not just to pursue the conventional method of putting them in homes, but bringing them in a proper atmosphere to enable them reach their potentials. The Chief of UNICEF Field Office, Enugu, Dr Ibrahim Conteh, said children are a blessing from God and urged the community to take them. “Government has a responsibility, the welfare of everybody in a nation is the direct responsibility of government because they are the right holders and these children that you see here today have the right to claim their rights from those who hold the right, which is the government in this case. “This is very interesting. It is a new thing for us as UNICEF seeing an initiative from civil society, from government to think of supporting children who have been abandoned and neglected because of all kinds of cultural and traditional beliefs that this children are not supposed to be part of a normal home and society. We always say where difficulties prevail, there are all kinds of assertions and it is very touching for people to pray for God to give them and a child and when that child comes, you classify such child as not being a normal child and that is unfortunate. “UNICEF as you all know is the custodian of the convention on the right of the child and Nigeria is a signatory to that convention. For us as an organization, we look at the child as a whole, not only the education aspect of the child or the nutrition aspect of the child, but we look at the child in totality. Anybody who infringes on the rights of the child we are interested in sometimes has some legal processes to prosecute. “The governor has the responsibility of ensuring that these children are not left behind. Children are the leaders of tomorrow. If Nigeria is going to move from where it is now to the next level, it is the human capital and investment in these children that would make that happen. We all know today, in Africa particularly, every country in Africa is looking up to Nigeria. Development in Nigerian means development in Africa and the entire world. And who are responsible to be able to move Nigeria forward in the future, it is these children. “There is so much we can learn and do in making these children contribute to the development of the country. If we leave these children behind, who knows any of them would be in the future. They have all the potentials to be like any other person. We need to invest a bit more like we have done now, bringing all these ones together to find a way of letting these children not stay in the streets and providing support to make them perfect human beings that would contribute meaningfully to the society. “In the past, we UNICEF used to help the government in institutionalising these children through vulnerable centres, but these days we also want to see that the government takes the lead in those processes. So a lot of times in many countries, they do not have institutions anymore. What they do have are caregivers, foster parents, who will take up these children and provide that homely support. Children tend to become a little bit different from a normal child when they go through certain difficulties in the home. “Children are not witches. I am appealing to all to come together and work very hard to support these children because I know the future of Nigeria is in these children. Let us provide the basic support for them to realise their rights and meet their potentials,” he said. Child Protection Specialist UNICEF, Enugu Field Office, Mrs Nkiru Maduechesi, said the children, who are marginalised children, are supposed to be in the family setting but they are not. “They are vulnerable. But looking at them today, you can see how talented, creative and intelligent they are. They speak good English, some of them dropped out as low as Primary three. Some have never been to secondary school. The oldest here is 17, the youngest here is about five. It cut across both sexes,” she said.  She said they did the mapping for the children in Calabar, and arrived at the ones they got because due to the ranking, they were the ones that can be easily reintegrated, because they met certain profile criteria. “They still know where they are from. They know their relatives, they know one or two. They know where they are. Their stories don’t change. So using this profile, we think that the NGOs that decided to do this approached us and we are thinking of a full-fledged alternative care programme. So we say this pilot can happen because from here we can learn lessons. “We can go through uncharted waters for family based and reintegration of these children because before now, what some these NGOs do is to institutionalise these children and the state has gone through a circle before that some of these children actually were let out from the institutions, so it is not really good. So within these three weeks, we hope that NGO, the caregivers, the Ministries of Sustainable Development and Women Development, will know these children better and bond with them and acquire their trust and then the process of, of course the process of reintegrating them has long started. “Some of them, we have found their families. We are in communication. It takes a lot of peace building, mediation, counseling, both for the parents and for the children, and then for those that we cannot find the parents, some people in Cross River State have opted on their own to take one to their homes, but under the supervision of the social workers, so at least you don’t abuse them the second time in these homes. So we hope that also they will have the requisite training and assessment, so they can be properly reintegrated. “You have seen some of them that have danced, they are more like professional dancers. There is also the process of linking them up with professional dancing or international artistes. That is what we intend to do, because these children are talented. Coming from this disadvantaged group, we hope that they would touch the minds of these already gifted and rich artistes to help them to bring them up again. And so we solicit the media cooperation in telling these stories in not just once or twice but being partners with these NGOs and Cross River State government to make sure that marginalizing children or stigmatizing them does not become a way of life, and that the law is respected. Talking about the Childs Right Law of the State 2009. “This pilot is like to tell the NGOs and Government that this is doable. And with this they would know how much it would cost them. They can quantify the challenges. They can pick some lessons that would help us. Ultimately, we want Cross River State a model state. A model state means a state, where issues of child violation will not be seen, or even when it is seen it would be very minimal and it would also receive timely and quality response,” she said. Chairperson, Child Protection Network Cross River State, who also is a Volunteer and Principal Counsel of Basic Rights Council Initiative, James Ibor, said they were in partnership with the Ministry of Social Welfare and Sustainable Development, UNICEF and SYDRI to reintegrate vulnerable children in the community. “We decided to camp them so we can relate with them within 21 days, understand their issues and attempt to solve those issues. While they are in camp, their time is fully booked. They are learning life skills, routine, and so far, we have been getting results. We have also intensified efforts to ensure that at the end of this programme, none of the children will go back to the streets. We would have failed if even one is not reintegrated properly,” said. SYDRI Executive Director Dr Esther Onoyom-Ita said the effort would be a life changing one for the children. Onoyom-Ita said they have been committed to the course of transforming the lives of vulnerable children and called for support to continue to rehabilitate and reintegrate more children to their families or foster homes, so they can be properly cared for. The children expressed delight at the programme, saying it has given an opportunity at life and hoped it would help them achieve their potentials in life.