The Igbo community has no issue with its Yoruba hosts in Lagos State, apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation Ohanaeze has said. The President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos, Chief Solomon Aguene, dismissed reports of tension between the two ethnic groups, describing them as the handiwork of mischief-makers. He said insinuation of a deep-seated acrimony and suspicion between the Igbo and the Yoruba on account of political affinities was untrue. Aguene told reporters yesterday in Lagos that the Igbo community remains grateful to its Yoruba hosts and will do nothing to alter the mutually beneficial relationship between the two. He said: “The Igbo in Lagos are active contributors to the thriving Lagos economy through their individual and collective enterprise and industry, helping to open up new economic and investment corridors in Lagos State. “The Yoruba on the other hand have warmly welcomed and received the Igbo, offering access to choice political and economic opportunities. “To cement this very cordial relationship between the Igbo and the Yoruba, sons and daughters of Igboland over the years have been appointed or elected to enviable positions of leadership in Lagos.” Aguene said although there were pockets of skirmishes during last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections in some parts of the state, especially at Okota, they had nothing to do with the cordial relationship the Igbo had enjoyed over the years from their Yoruba host communities. Describing the Yoruba as the best friend of the Ndigbo in Lagos and beyond, he advised Ndigbo residents in Lagos and their host communities not to allow some mischievous elements to destroy the long standing friendship between them. Another chieftain of the group, Chief Ogbonna, said the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, being the umbrella body of Ndigbo, has met constituted authorities in the state, and has received assurance that no such crisis exists. “We, therefore, call on citizens to remain law-abiding and respect constituted authorities. We urge them to go about their activities while we iron out the grey areas, including the immediate and remote causes of the alleged breach of public peace and possible solutions to prevent reoccurrence,” he said. Ogbonna implored politicians and government authorities to address noticeable gaps and trust deficits leading to ethnic disharmony in Lagos. “We call on the Lagos State Government, National Orientation Agency, politicians and other stakeholders to do more in terms of orientation, to help douse inter-ethnic rivalry, jealousy and mistrust,” he said. National leader of the People of South East Region (POSER) Obuesi Phillips said most often the people creating the crisis were not from the Southeast. He added that Ohanaeze and POSER have been advocating a peaceful co-existence between Igbo residents in Lagos and their Yoruba host communities. Obuesi thanked the Afenifere leadership for their fatherly role in nipping the challenge in the bud and praised the police for their swift response to prevent crisis in Lagos. He said the Igbo have pledged to work for the development of Lagos State.