 Wayne Rooney’s marriage is reportedly hanging by a thread after he was pictured on a ten-hour drinking session with a barmaid in Florida. The 33-year-old former England captain was spotted drinking with Vicki Rosiek until 2.30am last weekend in Clearwater Beach, Florida. According to The Sun, wife Coleen was said to have torn into the Wayne, telling him: ‘You’ve humiliated me again!’ ‘Coleen has never been angrier at Wayne,’ a source told the newspaper. ‘She was furious Wayne was back in the news for boozing and cannot believe he has been so stupid as to find himself caught up with another woman again. It’s just so embarrassing. ‘When Coleen found out she said she’d jump on a plane to the UK and take the boys with her and leave him on his own in America.’ The incident comes just weeks after he was arrested for being drunk at an airport in Washington DC. It is the latest in a string of drinking incidents for the former Manchester United and Everton striker, including a court appearance for drink-driving in 2017. Rooney began his ten hour drinking session at 4.20pm and had been with his DC United teammates but then was seen separately with Ms Rosiek, 32, who he had met a few days earlier, the Sun on Sunday reported. Earlier that evening, the DC United striker was seen using a cash machine outside a Hooters bar in Florida. There is no suggestion anything happened between Rooney and Ms Rosiek. A source told the newspaper: ‘Coleen has already warned him about his behaviour and will hit the roof over this. He is playing with fire getting into a woman’s car alone with his history. ‘One minute he’s on a pub crawl with male friends, then suddenly he’s moving between other bars with a pretty blonde. ‘At the very least it will worry Coleen to see Wayne drinking and acting this way while away from family.’ Rooney’s marriage was in jeopardy 18 months ago when he was arrested for driving   party girl Laura Simpson, 30, in her VW Beetle in Cheshire while three times over the limit. He was handed a two-year driving ban and 100 hours of unpaid community work, apologising for an ‘unforgiveable lack of judgment’.