Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) has held safety campaigns in some primary and secondary schools in Edo State. It also donated over 20,000 exercise books to some pupils. The sensitisation was part of  the firm’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). At Eyean Secondary School in Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo State, BEDC’s Health, Environment and Safety Manager, Mr. Gilbert Nweke, spoke on the dangers of tampering with electrical installations, living and trading under high tension overhead lines, overcrowded electrical sockets, stepping/touching lines (electrical wires) and playing near distribution substations, among others. The Principal, Eyean Secondary School, Mr. P. K. Idemudia, who was elated at the exercise, expressed appreciation to BEDC for the visit, saying: “This is a good innovation by BEDC, it is the first time we are witnessing this campaign from any electricity service provider in the country.” He advised other electricity distribution companies (DisCos) to take a cue from BEDC to reach out to children who formed major part of the vulnerable segment of their customer population and are prone to electrical accident. The team Lead of CSR Project, Mrs. Felicia Nlemoha, said: “The campaign will promote safety in the use of electricity at home, schools, road, and workplace and reduce the rate of electricity accidents and hazards, will  become safety ambassadors in their various homes.’’ She further stated that as part of giving back to the society, selected schools would get educational materials from BEDC. “In addition to the safety campaign, BEDC will also commence the formation of energy clubs called ‘Joules’ in secondary schools. The growth of Joules club will metamorphose into a debate competition, among member- schools. The winners of the competition will in turn become brand ambassadors of BEDC. “The objectives of the Joules clubs are to groom secondary students to take up careers in the electricity industry and to boost the current drive by BEDC and other DisCos to tackle manpower gap in the power sector,” she added. According to Mrs. Nlemoha, it will also encourage students to embrace the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) initiative in their career path, especially the females and also bridge the knowledge gap in the power industry by educating students on the entire electricity value chain. BEDC also visited some primary and secondary schools in Edo State, including those in Ogbe, Oliha, Iyase Ugbekun, Ologbosere, Isohan, Ogenerie primary schools and Imaguero Secondary School.