Youths’ Digest Magazine, organisers of the yearly campus journalism awards, in partnership with the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), has announced the launch of Campus Journalism Dialogue (CJD). The magazine is also calling for applications from student writers and campus journalists. According to a statement, the initiative formed part of efforts to address challenges facing student- journalists. It stated that the dialogue would feature student-writers and campus journalists across tertiary institutions in the Northwest to participate in the maiden edition of the dialogue come April, this year. “Youths Digest in partnership with the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) is calling on student-writers and campus Journalists across all tertiary institutions in Northwest geo-political zone to participate in its maiden ‘Campus Journalism Dialogue’ (CJD)” The thee-day event, which would educate participants on issues such as hate speech, fake news, defamation, libelous publication and brown envelope syndrome in contemporary journalism practice, among others, called on students of Mass Communication, student-writers and campus journalists to start sending their published works for application. “Students of Mass Communication, gifted students with flair for creative writing from other departments and campus journalists can send their opinion articles, literary works, news reports, among other genres of publications to youthsdigest@yahoo.com, with ‘My CJD application’ as subject,” the statement further emphasised. All applications are to contain applicants details; name, school, level, contact, email address and passport photo with titles and weblinks of their published articles, creative writings, and news reports attached on or before Thursday ,February 28. The statement added that successful applicants would be fully-sponsored to attend the dialogue. Also, gifts and cash prizes have been lined-up for participants who produce quality, authoritative, edifying and top-notch writings during the event. “Fifty applicants will be shortlisted and fully-sponsored to attend the CJD after a panel of judges comprising  seasoned journalists, accomplished academics and prolifics writers, have assessed all entries.”