The people of Kwara State have called for support for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying his administration has brought succour to millions in the countryside. Speaking at an event organised  by ‘Speak Up Nigeria,’ a  pro-Buhari civic group that is harvesting people’s opinions of the administration, beneficiaries of the government’s various peogrammes took turns to commend the president and seek support for his second term bid. Alhaji Risikat Agbeyangi, a pepper seller and beneficiary of Trader Moni at the popular Ipata market, hailed Buhari for bringing governance directly to the poor. “We thank the president for his support to us; it was timely and met our personal and business needs, some of us expanded our business with it,” she said. “We have resolved to maintain our support for Buhari and his supporters in Kwara state against all odds.” Balogun Kabir, a benefiary of N-Power Health, said the programme was a great boost for public health at the grassroots as masses now have direct access to tips on basic health issues. Jimba Abioye Yahya, a beneficiary of the N-Teach and resident of Magaji Ngeri of Ilorin west, thanked Buhari for the employment opportunity. “I want to advice Nigerian youths to vote Buhari and Pastor Yemi Osinbajo, who saw us as productive elements in the nation and not just instruments of political violence. I am grateful for the employment opportunity they gave me and my fellow Nigerian Youths,” he said. Kwara State public relations spokesman of N-Power beneficiaries, Salman Habeeb Olesin, said the Buhari administration has brought succor to millions of unemployed youth. “President Buhari has employed over 500,000 youths through the N-Power programme. I am a trained teacher lying idle before Buhari came, but he gave me the opportunity of practicing and making a living out of what I know and have passion for, teaching. I want PMB to continue beyond 2019,” he said. Omowunmi Akinsefunmi, a resident of Basin road in Ilorin, said the N-Power scheme offered her internship opportunity to train as a technician. “I beg the Nigerian youths to see voting Buhari again as opportunity to a better Nigeria as we can’t afford going back to the bad old days,” she added. Mallam Aliyu Dansokoto, a pepper seller in Ipata Market and beneficiary of MarketMoni, said: “The N10,000 given to us by the President Buhari-led Federal Government aided our business and we found things easy during his tenure. I am enjoying Nigerians to vote Buhari again for a better Nigeria.”