CONCERNED Youth Presidents (CPP) in Burutu Local Government in Delta State, yesterday, endorsed the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. The group also endorsed PDP candidates in the state, urging youths in Burutu council to re-elect Governor Ifeanyi  Okowa and his deputy, Kingsley Burutu Otuaro. The group spoke in a statement signed by over 10 youth groups from Burutu. CPP described Okowa as a “development guru and a friend to youths,” adding that Deltans were not ready to trade Okowa’s ambition for anything as his work was visible everywhere. Other candidates endorsed were Sen. James Manager; Julius Pondi (House of Representatives for Burutu Federal Constituency); Asupa Forteta House of Assembly for Burutu North); and Pullah Ekpotuayerin (House of Assembly for Burutu South). The statement reads: “As youth presidents in Burutu Local Government in Delta State, we can’t  watch any longer, we are aware Nigeria is the headquarters of poverty in the world, there is high level of insecurity … and an alarming rate of unemployment. “Hunger and hardship at its highest level; Judiciary in a comatose state and a Nigeria that is not working. We have resolved that there is need to test Atiku…the present government is like a nightmare to our people… “It is in our interest as Ijaw that Sen. Manager should be returned to represent Delta South once more. He is high ranking, he knows the job, and has been delivering… “Julius Pondi, member representing Burutu  in the House of Representatives, is a rare leader in Burutu politics and Delta State, as a first timer, he does not appear so, he has transformed the lives of youths in Burutu and Niger Delta. “…he has performed well, projects have been influenced to communities… he had also been instrumental in many appointments in the council, he is loved by the people and is a voice to reckon with… “Asupa Forteta is one leader the people will always queue behind, he has this penchant for the development, he has been doing his part in the emerging new Burutu. He has the people at heart, we will not waver in sending him to represent Burutu North in the House of Assembly. “We will also vote Mr. Pullah Ekpotuayerin, PDP candidate for Burutu South to represent the constituency in the House of Assembly, we are ready to deliver you all during the elections,” the youth presidents said.