Indigenes of Polobubo/Tsekelewu community in the Warri North council area of Delta state have charged the state government to reward their contributions to economic development by urgently meeting some of their immediate basic needs. Polobubo/Tsekelewu is an Ijaw community rich in crude oil and hosting a number of flow stations and oil wells as well as playing host to some oil companies, including Chevron Nigerian Limited (CNL), Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC)/Elcrest Joint Venture. The community gave the charge on Tuesday in a welcome address by the National President of the Polobubo/Tsekelewu National Association, Mr. Ebilate Mac-Yoroki, during the official take-over ceremony of the community’s cottage hospital by the state government. The Polobubo/Tsekelewu Cottage Hospital was built and equipped by Chevron Nigerian Limited at the instance of the Egbema-Gbaramatu Community Development Foundation (EGCDF). With the take-over of the running of the facility, the Delta state government has assumed responsibility for its financing and day-to-day activities. However, while the community thanked the governor and all other stakeholders who had facilitated the building, equipping and eventual conversation of the administration of the cottage hospital, it tasked the governor to speedily attend to environmental/ecological and lack of physical development battling its people on a daily basis. “We wish to bring to your urgent attention some of the numerous challenges facing the communities. Polobubo (Tsekelewu) communities and their environs depict a classical example of the meaning and definition of ecological and environmental degradation, orchestrated by oil exploration and exploitation. “The river you traversed to this town used to be averagely deep; as deep as 10 meters, before the advent of oil exploration activities by oil companies. “Today this same river has been silted to less than a meter in depth during the dry season. “The fresh water has been replaced by salt water from the Atlantic Ocean, destroying economic trees and vegetation that provided the people with lucrative livelihood,” Mac-Yoroki lamented. He, therefore, demanded the state government makes haste to the “dredging of the waterways, reclamation of new Polobubo. Since the river transport system has been destroyed, we plead that you construct a major Trans-Egbema Road for us (a) from Opuama to Polobubo (b) from Ogbudugbudu to Polobubo. “The installation of the 1000kva generating plant, supplied by DESOPADEC, which is currently lying idle. The installation of the generating plant should be considered as temporal answer to our power problem, on a permanent ground, existing electricity and good water facilities in the various oil platforms or flow stations, please sir, direct these companies to connect all the host communities with these facilities. This won’t impose any excessive cost on them”.