UNITED States (U.S.) Consul-General Ambassador John Bay yesterday said that his home country has interest only in free, fair and credible elections. Bay, who restated the commitment of the U.S. to violence-free electoral process, insisted that the U.S. was not supporting any candidate in the February 16 presidential election. A statement by the Special Adviser to Bayelsa State the Governor on Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, quoted the envoy to have made the comment while paying a courtesy call on Governor Seriake Dickson at the Government House, Yenagoa on Wednesday. He noted that his delegation was on a tour to the Southern states in the country to interface with civil society organisiations, traditional rulers and other political stakeholders on the need for peaceful conduct before, during and after the elections. He quoted the envoy as saying: “The U.S. does not have a candidate in this election. We are looking for a free, fair, credible and peaceful process, a process that allows the choice of the Nigerian citizens to come through. “So, we are going to spend some time with the governor and chat about different things we might be able to do to better the situation and anything we can do to help before leaving here for Port Harcourt tomorrow.” Dickson commended the commitment of the international community to peaceful, free, fair and credible elections in the country. He reiterated his call on the political class to respect the will of the people and make efforts that would renew their confidence in the unity and peaceful coexistence of the different ethnic nationalities. Describing Nigeria as a critical member of the international community, the governor cautioned politicians to be wary of utterances and conducts that could throw the country into avoidable crisis which could truncate the nation’s democracy. He said: “We want to thank the U.S. Mission in Nigeria for your services, contributions and for the building of peace as well as promotion of our nation’s democracy. We also want to thank you for always thinking of us and caring about what is going on here in the Niger Delta. “I have read about the statements made by your Mission and other international partners concerning the forthcoming general elections. For me and our state, we welcome these interventions. We believe that our country is and should be a responsible member of the international community. “As practicing politicians, all of us should conduct the politics and affairs of our country in such a way as to respect the due processes of the law, and the elections so that in the end, what we do and say should continue to promote peace and stability in various communities across the country. “Nigeria is a critical member of the world community. It is the largest and most populous black nation in the world. So, what goes on in Nigeria should rightly be of interest to the rest of the world; and the world is right by not standing by to watch things go bad in Nigeria.”