SOME markets in Oshodi, Ajegunle and Isolo in Lagos were shut yesterday as hoodlums  barred traders from displaying their wares. In a thrift reaction, the police  says the the disturbing developmnet was the handwork of mischief makers and asked the peoples to go about their business. It was gathered that the hoodlums, suspected to be members of Transport  Union stormed Kairo Market Oshodi,  warning traders not to open shops. They were with Akpasa and  market streets in Ajegunle. The hoodlums, Oshodi traders alleged, were armed with guns and cutlasses. They reportedly terrorised the area between 5:50am and 9am. Many shops were locked despite the presence of policemen and soldiers when The Nation visited the market. A man, who posted the incident on social media, Mr. Egwuonwu Ugochukwu, said he witnessed the incident on his way to work around 5:50am, adding that the thugs drove everybody away. Traders condemned the incident. “We don’t have peace of mind at the moment because these hoodlums can show up anytime. This is why we are not displaying our goods. We cannot open our shops because we are afraid that the hoodlums may attack us and loot our goods,” said an electronics dealer. Another trader said the hoodlums brandished cutlasses and other weapons. He alleged that some persons were injured. A resident, Felix Onyeabor, said most of the traders were not in the market  when the hoodlums stormed the place. He said: “It happened in the morning. The majority of the traders were not around. Area boys stormed Oshodi and attacked shop owners, destroying goods.” A commercial bus driver, who claimed he heard the noise while still at home, told The Nation that he stayed back to avoid being attacked He said: “I was at home when my friend called me around 7:45am that I should not come out yet because hooligans were terrorising people, obstructing their means of livelihood. When I eventually came out, I saw policemen and soldiers patrolling the streets.” The hoodlums also stormed Iyana Isolo with cutlasses, but  the policemen stationed under the bridge repelled them. A statement last night to police said security had been tightened in the state, adding: “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to the news making the rounds on the Internet that a group of boys, popularly called ‘area boys’, are attacking traders at Oshodi, preventing them from opening their shops. “The command wishes to debunk the rumour in its entirety, as nothing could be farther from the truth.” The statement signed by spokesman Chike Chima, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), added. “Although the command received distress calls from concerned Nigerians, whose apprehensions were understandably heightened by disturbing rumours emanating from some social media platforms, the command swiftly and massively deployed its personnel drawn from various units in Oshodi and its environs to assuage the feelings of residents and further assure Lagosians of its readiness to decisively deal with any person who attempts to breach the public peace. “In order to sustain the peaceful atmosphere, the command will maintain a high level of police presence in all parts of the state, with emphasis on crime prone areas. “The command warns criminally-minded people and disgruntled elements to steer clear of the state or be prepared to contend with security forces.”