Gov. Muhammad Badaru of Jigawa, says the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari is fair to all the Governors, irrespective of their party in the country. Badaru stated this when he received the Chairman, Contact and Mobilisation Committee of APC, North West zone, retired Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Magoro and his team in his office in Dutse. He said that when the APC administration under President Buhari came into power, most of the state governors were unable to pay salaries, but he gave them bailout to pay workers. “Buhari did that without showing party differences, whether you are APC, PDP, or APGA and so on, we were all given the bailout, I, therefore don’t think there is any fair person more than this man who wishes the country well. “Buhari did not just stopped at that, he has been giving some governors money, who said that they don’t have sufficient funds for doing some critical projects in their states. “Some governors that inherited uncompleted projects from their predecessors, irrespective of their party leanings, the President gave them money to complete such projects. “The argument by Buhari is that the projects are people oriented and therefore they cannot be abandoned,”Badaru said. The governor assured the team that the people of Jigawa will give their vote enmasse to APC from top to bottom to enable them continue reaping the fruits of his administration. Earlier, the Chairman of Contact and Mobilisation Committee, Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Magoro retired said that they are in Jigawa to thank the people for their support for APC. Magoro explained that they were also in the state to interact with the electorate at the grassroots to sensitise and mobilise them to turn out en masse and vote for President Muhammadu Buhari for second term. He said that the APC candidate is the only leader that cares for them. The chairman was accompanied on the tour by Representatives of APC and stalwarts from Kaduna, Kebbi, Katsina, Kano, Sokoto, Zamfara and Jigawa states that made up the North West Geo-Political Zone.