The All Progressives Congress (APC) has alleged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, have concluded plans to release fake presidential results. The plot, it claimed, was hatched in Dubai to cause confusion in the polity. Director of Strategic Communications, APC Presidential Campaign Council, Barrister Festus Keyamo, in a statement on Sunday said the PDP also plan to instigate protests and violence that would push the nation to an edge for what he called the Venezuela situation. The APC said: “Devastated by authentic results filtering out of polling units nationwide, our usual sources within the camp of the PDP have informed us that an emergency meeting of the main opposition party has been summoned for today somewhere in Abuja. “Top on the agenda of the PDP is to activate the last strand of their Dubai strategies that have since collapsed like a pack of cards: they plan to release fake results of the Presidential Election later today or early Monday morning that they claim to have compiled themselves. “Our information is that they aim to create crises and confusion that will lead to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar claiming victory in a day or two from today ahead of the official announcement of the results by INEC. “Then, what would follow will be some carefully choreographed protests by pockets of hoodlums in some parts of the country. The ultimate aim is to curry the sympathy of our foreign friends and push us to the Venezuela situation.” The party called on INEC and security agencies to be vigilant and guard against release of fake results. It further alleged: “In preparation for this reckless move, some PDP social media agents are already flying some kites on-line as to the number of States allegedly ‘won’ by PDP. “In fact, Alhaji Buba Galadima, an official spokesperson for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has made a short video announcing PDP as the ‘winner’ of the Presidential Election. “As an official spokesperson, he is clearly acting on behalf of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and on his instruction.” The APC demanded the immediate arrest, interrogation and prosecution of Alhaji Buba Galadima. It said: “The world is watching and waiting on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to say something on the video by Alhaji Buba Galadima. “Consequently, we urge all well-meaning Nigerians, the International Community and even reasonable members of the Opposition not to be bought by these cheap antics of the PDP. Let’s restrain our wards from being used by these unscrupulous elements. Nigeria will continue to exist after this election.”  