Teachers in Anambra State are excited that the government has extended their retirement age from 60 to 65 years. But some people believe that it was politically motivated. The Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) dismissed such claims, saying the extension would enable older hands to help mentor young graduates desirous of making their mark in teaching. EMMA ELEKWA ONITSHA, reports. Mixed reactions have continued to trail Anambra State’s approval of the extension of teachers’ retiring age from 60 to 65 years. The Government of Anambra State had announced the approval which took effect from January 17, this year. A circular signed by the Head of Service, Harry Udu, on January 23, said the initiative became necessary in view of the spate of early retirement in the Teaching Services (post primary and primary), a development Udu said had depleted the number of experienced teachers. According to the circular, the extension is in accordance with the statutory provision of 35 years of service or 60 years for the computation of pension benefits. The circular urged officers in charge of the Post Primary School Service Commission (PPSSC) and Anambra State Universal Basic Education Board (ASUBEB) to take necessary steps to notify all teachers of the latest development. However, while many questioned the rationale behind such policy, others described it as commendable. Critics of the policy argued that instead of re-engaging teachers at the twilight of their career, government should employ young teachers, who, according to them, would bring fresh perspectives into the profession. Those in support described the older teachers as old wine, saying ‘the older, the better’. Meanwhile, Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano has justified the policy, saying the extension is another effort of his administration to sustain the gains recorded in the education sector. Similarly, the State Commissioner for Basic Education, Prof. Kate Azuka Omenugha, described the move as a step in the right direction and worthy of commendation. She regretted that many experienced teachers retired between 50 and 55 years, when they were supposed to be in active service, pointing out that their replacements often posed a threat to the nation’s education. “Such policy will help to stop retirement of teachers at the time they are still very useful and strong’’, Omenugha argued. “For the past three years now, Anambra State has employed 60 teachers for technical subjects, that is, those who have retired. We have given them two years contract to still be in service in order to mentor the new intakes.” Omenugha further argued that the policy would encourage mentorship in the profession as well as raise people who could take over the baton of leadership. She, however, dismissed claims that the move would discourage the earlier advertisement for teachers, insisting that there was still need for teachers who would monitor the younger ones. The state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), has also thrown its weight behind government’s initiative. Anambra chairman of NUT, Comrade Ifeanyi Offodile, regretted that the state, over the years, has lost many of its members to retirement, adding that the extension would help stop the trend. According to Offodile, quality teachers are hard to come by, and the lacuna left by their dearth creates a challenge of mentoring younger colleagues for better and effective service delivery. However, Offodile noted that the body was not unmindful of the recent recruitment examination conducted by the government for intending teachers. While appreciating government’s benevolence, the union expressed the hope that enough resources would be deployed to cater for young teachers just joining the workforce. He also hinted that the union had gotten two circulars from government to that effect, which they were still studying before coming up with an official statement on the matter. An official of NUT in the state, who preferred anonymity, said there is no sense keeping aged teachers in business, while young and qualified graduates that studied Education are left to roam the streets. He said, “I reserve my comments because NUT at the national level and at the National Assembly are pursuing the case, which has passed Second Reading during public hearing. “Personally for me, it is not healthy. I prefer employment of young qualified graduates of Education, while the old at 60 should retire. After all, at retirement on Salary Grade Level 15-17, two or more graduates can be recruited. “Age affects intelligence, productivity and health. With the record of massive unemployment in the state and country at large, engaging fresh brains will be wiser”. A teacher at Girls High School, Agulu, in Anaocha Local Government Area of the state, described the idea as a ‘questionable move’. The teacher, who also refused to be mentioned her name, said what government should have done was to employ younger teachers with innovations and knowledge in information and communication technology (ICT). “It is only when you give them (young graduates) opportunity that they can grow. If you fail to give the fresh teachers opportunity, how can they gather experience? “Remember that most of these retired teachers falsified their ages, meaning that adding extra years to them may mean telling them that you want them to die on the job. “However, some persons may support government’s directive, but I don’t think I share in their sentiments. Recall that, last year, the same government announced job openings for teachers. Why was that move stalled?” she queried. A lecturer at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Lady Dr. Ifeoma Bosa, said the policy has both positive and negative implications. She said: “Someone at 60 is not necessarily old. He is still agile and has stamina to work. I was really pained when my niece retired at the age of 60 even when she was still strong. “But I see it as more of a burden to the government, especially when you consider the cost implication of paying for these ones who  are supposed to have left the system.” Bosa, who said she would soon clock 60, however disagreed with the experience factor as justification for the extension. She said: “Where will the younger ones get the experience if they are not engaged? The proper thing to do is organise capacity training where these retirees would be invited as facilitators. “They need not remain in the system before they will impact on the young graduates. In fact, these younger ones are better off especially in the area of ICT.” She added that the policy might be politically motivated, noting that it would not affect people’s perception negatively during the forthcoming election. “People are much wiser now. They have already made up their minds on who to vote for, whether or not the policy is implemented,” she added. A retiree, Sir Kene Oranu, criticised the policy, blaming it on lack of planning. “The population of the unemployed is so much,” Oranu lamented, adding. “The appropriate age to retire is 60 so that younger people will be given opportunity to be employed. “If it is extended, that means you’re reducing the chances of young graduates from getting jobs.” Oranu explained that the justification for the extension on the grounds of experience of the retirees was not justifiable enough for keeping the aged workers. “The problem is that government hardly employs to replace the number of those retiring. It often takes time to recruit people after several years of retiring. “This creates a large gap, making it difficult for the aged ones to impart their experiences on the younger workers before exiting the system,” he added. A parent, Chukwuka Patrick, frowned on the policy, saying the reason given by the government was unjustifiable. “The policy is not proper because many graduates who are supposed to be employed are roaming the streets,” said Chukwuka. “Even the one they call self-employment is not easy to attain. Many have undergone one training or the other, yet have no money to set up their own businesses. “The state government feels they are better off making use of the retirees than the fresh graduates. “Many ministries are short of staff, yet the government is not recruiting, claiming there is no money. “Government must find a way of recruiting these qualified, but idle hands rather than keeping the old hands more than necessary.” A secondary school teacher, Mrs. Adaeze Nwakakor, said while the policy would be favourable to those that joined the service early, it would be a minus for latecomers. “For those that joined late, before the retirement age, their productivity willhave been drastically reduced,” she said. “Again, those who falsified their ages at the time of recruitment, by the time they are, say 55, their official age will be reading 45. One wonders how effective such person will be at 60,” she added. Advising those going into the profession to be honest while filling their ages, Nwakakor stressed the need for seriousness by the teachers to justify their salaries. Onyinye Ikwuka, a fresh graduate of Business Education, is  not encouraged to take up teaching appointment even if invited due to its poor motivation. “If they like, let them extend the age to 80 years. Who cares when they have succeeded in making the profession unattractive?” she asked rhetorically. “Yes, I studied Education, but I’m not planning to end up in the classroom. Apart from the peanuts they pay, the job is becoming more stressful as years go by,” she bemoaned. The Chairman, College of Education Academic Staff Union (COESU), Dr. Tobechukwu Nwamaradi, said there was need by government to ascertain the demography of the state workforce before implementing the policy. “You don’t just introduce any policy in the system simply because it is being practised elsewhere. We have to look at the data, the economy of the state and other factors. “One major problem of Nigeria is that of data gathering. It has always been difficult getting accurate data from agencies like National Population Commission and the National Identity Management Commission,” he said. Similarly, a retired teacher Tony Okafor, described the extension as ‘improper and retrogressive’ He said, “Let them not kill this education the White Man brought to us! At 60 or 35 years of service, someone should go home and rest. “I don’t really know how they are going to manage it. Let them make use of the young ones with fresh blood and energy’’. He continued, “Education is not all about classroom work. When we were in the Teachers Training College, we were told education has three domains, effective, psycho motive and cognitive. “It is not by writing on the board alone. How can a 65-year-old man or woman be involved in Physical Education? It is almost impossible. Humans naturally get weaker by age. “I know some will argue that palm wine is sweeter with age, but not in this circumstance. There are many things you do as a teacher, not just writing on the board. “If it is experience that is the reason for extension, those ones can go back to their village, open schools and allow these public schools flourish, ” Okafor concluded.