The Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA) Africa will deploy 3,906 observers on Saturday to observe the presidential and National Assembly elections. It said it would have mobile and stationary observers in the 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) and state collation centres. YIAGA has as its technical partners the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the UK Department for International Development (DFID) and the US-based National Democratic Institute. YIAGA Africa, in a briefing, said it would conduct parallel vote tabulation (PVT) – the gold standard observation methodology which it said has been utilised throughout Africa and the world. Its Communication Officer Moshood Isah said: “This deployment will enable YIAGA Africa to provide the most timely and accurate information on the opening of polls; the conduct of accreditation and voting; and the counting, announcement and posting of results throughout the country. “Based on reports from its observers in 1,515 sampled polling units, YIAGA Africa will also provide an independent projection of voter turnout and will be able to project the vote shares that each party should receive within a narrow range. “If the official results fall within YIAGA Africa’s estimated ranges, then the public, political parties and candidates should have confidence in the ballots cast at the polling units. Only INEC, however, has the legal mandate to announce the election results.” YIAGA Africa Watching the Vote Chair Dr. Hussaini Abdu explain added: “YIAGA Africa’s observers, who have all been carefully selected and extensively trained in accordance with strict criteria to ensure their independence and neutrality, are properly accredited with INEC and have signed a project Code of Conduct to uphold standards of impartiality, objectivity and professionalism. “YIAGA Africa observes on behalf of all Nigerian people and speaks in their name on the basis of verified data.” The group will share a mid-day situational statement on the opening of polls, a preliminary statement on the conduct of the 16 February election process and will hold a final press conference to share its statement on the accuracy of the election results announced by INEC. “YIAGA Africa PVT findings are from a statistical sample of polling units located in all 774 LGAs that is truly representative of the entire country and therefore provide unbiased information on the overall conduct of the presidential election and the accuracy of the results. “YIAGA AFRICA is a strictly nonpartisan and independent civil society organisation without affiliation to any political party, candidate or state agency. 