Lagos State Deputy Governor  Dr Idiat Adebule has reiterated the government’s commitment to innovative reforms and massive investment in education. Mrs Adebule spoke during this year’s  Honours Day and inauguration of Students Diplomatic Corps (SDC) in the Education District, I  at the Government Senior College, Agege, Lagos. Represented by Mr Oluremi Awoyera, Director, Modern Apprenticeship Training and Programme, Ministry of Education. Adebule said: “We must encourage our children to be whatever they want to be in life. It is our responsibility as teachers and parents to discover in our children their latent abilities. “I want to reiterate that our administration will continue to channel more investments in the future of our children through partnership with stakeholders in education. We will continue to focus on innovative reforms and strategic planning in the education sector to ensure that our children would compete favourably with their peers internationally. “More of our attention would be geared towards capacity development of teaching and non-teaching personnel in all public schools. This is to ensure that our children are provided with required skills and further move our education system forward.” Mrs Adebule congratulated the award winners and the district on their sterling performance in the last academic year, urging them not to rest on their oars. Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary of the district Dr Olufolayimika Ayandele recalled that 92 of the 506 that won various awards in the 2017/2018 academic session in the district were given honours and graduated into its SDC because of their outstanding performance. “In this district, no stone is ever left unturned in transforming the lives of the students. Various student-friendly methods like peer mentoring, group studies on the part of the students and groups mentoring among teachers are instituted,” Ayandele said. Ayandele added that the maiden edition of the SDC instituted during the last academic session has gingered a lot of students to strive for excellence. According to her, students in the district have worked hard, carried out intensive  studies and displayed impeccable  character to be deserving of awards. Wife of Pastor Tunde Bakare of Latter Rain Assembly, Mrs. Layide Bakare praised the students for striving for excellence.