Multinational hotel brand Marriott International, Inc. said it is on track to open the Four Points by Sheraton, Ikot Ekpene, Akwa-Ibom State, this year. It will be its ninth property in Nigeria. Marriott International, based in Bethesda, Maryland, USA, encompasses a portfolio of more than 6, 900 properties in 30 leading hotel brands spanning 130 countries and territories. The company, which operates and franchises hotels and licenses vacation ownership resorts all around the world, said it expects to grow its current footprint in West Africa by 75 per cent with the addition of nine new hotels and more than 1, 800 rooms by the end of 2023. Currently operating 12 properties across Nigeria, Ghana, Mali and Guinea, Marriott International plans to enter Benin and Ivory Coast as a part of its development pipeline. In 2019, the company said it is on-track to open the Four Points by Sheraton Ikot Ekpene, its ninth property in Nigeria, and the Protea Hotel by Marriott Accra Kotoka Airport in Ghana. This announcement came as the international hotel brand said it continues with its expansion across Africa with three new deal signings across North and West Africa, reinforcing its commitment to expanding its presence across the continent. The company in a statement made available to The Nation during the weekend said the new deal signings highlight its growth in Morocco and Ghana, while marking its debut in Liberia. The signings were announced during the Forum de l’Investissement Hôtelier Africain in Marrakech, Morocco. The Forum unites North and West African countries in a bid to develop their economies and support hospitality investment. The Forum connects business leaders from international and local markets – driving investment into tourism projects, infrastructure, entertainment and hotel development across the region. “New and established markets across North and West Africa continue to present us with immence opportunities to further enhance and diversify our portfolio in the continent,” Chief Development Officer, Middle East & Africa at Marriott International, Jerome Briet, said. Briet further said: “The new deal signings further strengthen our robust development pipeline, which is a result of our long-established presence in Africa and the trust owners have in Marriott International and our compelling portfolio of diverse brands.” The three new hotel signings announced during the Forum de l’Investissement Hôtelier Africain include Four Points by Sheraton Monrovia, Residence Inn by Marriott Accra Kotoka Airport, The St. Regis Marrakech Resort. Marriott International, which targets strong growth momentum across North and West Africa, said it is on track to expand its footprint in Africa to 200 hotels by the end of 2023. The North and West African regions play a pivotal role in the company’s overall growth strategy for the continent. The company specifically said in West Africa, it expects to grow its current footprint by 75 per cent with the addition of nine new hotels and more than 1,800 rooms by the end of 2023.