The federal government whistleblowing policy has yielded N527 in two years, acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu has stated. Magu spoke at a South-south town hall meeting on whistleblowing and the fight against corruption in Nigeria in Port Harcourt the Rivers state capital by African Centre for Media and Information (AFRICMIL) in partnership with Social Development Intergrated Centre (Social Action) on Thursday. Represented by an official of the commission, Usman Mukhtar, the EFCC chair also said the office within the period under review equally recovered the sum of $53million as well as over  £122,000. He added the amounts were recovered following the whistleblowing policy of the Federal Government. According to him: “As at May 2018, we recovered over N527 Billion, $53 million, and £122, 89 through the Whistle Blower Policy. “More successes are being made and the response by members of the public to the Policy has been very encouraging.” He explained the policy has given avenue for patriotic Nigerians to report criminal acts which are inimical to the growth and development of the country. He however noted some challenges affecting the effectiveness of whistleblowing policy to include poor legislation, including that of the security of whistle blowers and those intending whilstle blowers. He further lamented the problem of fear of victimisation or attacks, adding the fear of victimisation whistle blowers in their place of work is currently being addressed by the whistle blower protection act passed by the National in 2017. “Many would- be whistle blower are afraid of reprisals,  attacks and other attendant risks involved in volunteering information about suspicious activities around them. “However, this challenge is already addressed by the Whistle Blower Protection Act passed by the National Assembly in 2017. “The Act provides that “a person who makes a disclosure shall not be subject to victimisation by his or her employers or by fellow employees. “Additionally, a person who makes a disclosure has the right to take legal action if he or she is victimised, dismissed, suspended, declared redundant, transferred against his or her will, harassed or intimidated in any manner,” he explained.