Edo State government has begun move to open a register for convicted sexual offenders that would be made open to members of the public. The opening of the sexual offenders register is sequel to the signing into the law the Violence against Persons (VAP) bill by Governor Godwin Obaseki. The VAP law is meant to address all forms of violence and protect vulnerable members of the society. Governor Obaseki signed the bill into law on Tuesday, the day Speaker Kabiru Adjoto presented the bill to him moments after First Lady of the State, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki led other women groups to protest violence against women and vulnerable persons in the state. What prompted the protest was a viral video which showed one Favour Ada Friday, a 24-year old girl being beaten and raw pepper inserted into her vaginal  on the allegation that she stole a phone worth N450,000 belonging to one Joel Otoghile. Some of the suspects involved in the case have since been charged to court. The protesters including the Nigeria Bar Association, International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and other women groups walked through the streets of Bénin City to the Edo State Police Command and the Edo Government House. At the police headquarters, Chairperson of FIDA,  Barr. Iryn Omorogiomwan, urged the State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosun, to ensure investigations are expedited so that all the suspects are convicted if found guilty. Barr. Omorogiomwan urged the CP to create Special Squad to stop jungle justice as being seen in various trending video. She said it was worrisome the rate at which men rape their children and people molested without recourse to the law. Edo Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Prof, Yinka Omoregbe, said the protest is to tell the CP that they don’t want the case against those that brutalised Favour to be thrown out of the court. “We don’t want the police to mess up the investigation. We are committed to justice. We want to ensure justice is done.” The Police CP assured the women that proper investigation would be carried out to arrest all the fleeing suspects. He told them that the law would take its course even as he declared that preliminary investigation showed that no phone was missing. Addressing Governor Obaseki before the bill was presented,  Omorogiomwan said the VAP bill answered all agitation by women and children. She urged Governor Obaseki to assent to the bill for all forms of barbaric acts in the state to stop. Mrs. Obaseki in her speech said she was pained when she watched the viral video of what she termed degrading treatment meted to one of our daughters. According to her, “This act had been described as barbaric, cruel, evil, wicked, satanic and most degrading. This is a crime against women, the world over. It is indeed a crime that shocked human conscience and cannot be tolerated by the people and Government of Edo State. “The VAP bill eliminates violence in private and public life. The content of the Act of rich in its provisions as it  of the prevalent forms of violence in Nigeria today ranging from physical, psychological sexual, harmful traditional practices and sócio-economic violence. It punishes offenders and provides effective remedies for victims.” “This Act is s response to current challenges of the people. It punishes wide range offences such as rape, gang rape, inflicting physical injury on a person, forceful ejection from home, forced financial dependence or economic abuse, forced isolation or separation from family friends amongst others.” Governor Obaseki, who signed immediately assented to the bill promised that  it was not a formality but would be implemented to the  letter. “We will not stop here by just signing the bill into law, but will commence the much difficult work of implementing it to the letter. It must be noted that this bill has been in consideration for over six to eight years but the time has come for us to have a law like this VAP Law, to protect the most vulnerable and weak in our society. “As a government, we have aligned with the Federation of Women Lawyer (FIDA)’s purpose and objective and therefore have no hesitation in signing the bill into law. “I want to appreciate FIDA for their doggedness, leadership and commitment to this cause. I am not sure many other states in the nation have such bills. This bill goes to the core of some of the most pressing issues in society particularly violence against women and other persons.” Speaker Adjoto, told the governor that the newly signed VAP law would eliminate violence in private and public life. “This bill prohibits violence against all persons and provides maximum protection and effective remedy for victims and punishment for offenders and other related matters,” he said. “This bill was sent to the EDHA in the fourth Assembly but suffered a setback. It also suffered a setback in the fifth Assembly but it was passed in the sixth Assembly.” Adjoto explained that rape was properly defined in the bill and a rapist will now spend his or her life in prison. ”If a man beats his wife, he risks two years in prison if the case is proven. It is now an offense for men to abandon their duties of upbringing as the responsibility is not for women alone.  Female genital mutilation now attracts life imprisonment without an option of fine.”