As February 16, slated for the presidential election approaches, the die is cast between ‘the buharists’ and ‘the atikulates’ to match their words with action. They must go to the polls to cast their vote for their preferred candidate. While many wished the frontrunners were intellectual denizens like Oby Ezekwesili, Kingsley Moghalu, Omoyele Sowore or their kindred spirit, the fact is that all things being equal, either Buhari or Atiku will be our president-elect by evening of February 16. So, like Julius Caesar said on January 10, 49 B.C., after crossing the Rubicon river: Aleaiactaest (the die is cast) for our dear country on her march to the 2019 general elections. But, also like 2Baba and his melodious brethren have been preaching through their songs, all Nigerians should work for a peaceful election. I have no doubt that the greatest legacy President Muhammadu Buhari can leave is a free, fair and credible election. While he is entitled to run to win, he must never contemplate the election as ‘a do or die affair’. In making a choice between Buhari and Atiku, what should be the guarding principle?In my view, it should be who amongst the two candidates will better wage the war on corruption. Perception wise, Buhari is viewed as incorruptible, while Atiku is seen as susceptible to corruption. Buhari’s famed incorruptibility was very instrumental to his winning the presidency in 2015. Atiku’s corruption index was key to his being denied a succession advantage by former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, in 2007. Practically, Atiku in an interview last weekmooted the idea that he could offer amnesty to corrupt officials willing to return their loot to the national coffers. No doubt such a proposal will find favour amongst his supporters who are facing corruption charges in court. Some of his vociferous supporters who have been politically exposed are facing financially related charges in court. Either they are accused of outright embezzlement or of they have taken humongous loans from Banks which they have refused to repay. Perhaps that peculiar circumstance may be because Atiku’s politicalelite base is substantially members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who were in power for 16 years, during which they had access to public resources. But beyond the politically exposed there is a huge number of potential voters who believe that regardless of the corrupt practices associated with the PDP candidate, life was better while ‘the corrupt practices’ lasted. This group are adamant that national progress should be measured in terms of the present cost of one bag of rice compared to the pre-Buhari era. On his part the anti-corruption agencies under President Buhari prefers to fight corruption frontally, even refusing to consider plea bargain. In fairness to them, they have recovered substantial sums from the thieving elite that raped our country for better part of the 16 years the PDP were in charge at the centre. Buhari on his part is viewed by many as ascetic and incorruptible. He preaches that it is either Nigeria kills corruption or corruption will kill Nigeria. Unfortunately Atiku supporters do not believe that Buhari is sincere in the fight against corruption. They easily point to allegedly corrupt officials close to the president, who are not targeted by anti-corruptionagencies. They have also ingeniously linked the lopsided appointments in Buhari’s government as corruptpractices. So, while the anti-corruption agencies have performed better under Buhari, some framers of the campaign issues are pushing the existence of other forms of corruption, beyond stealing public funds. But assuming the electorate are discerning enough on the issue of corruption, their responsibility would be to weigh between an Atiku who may be more nuanced in spreading political appointments, even while he may be soft on financial related corruption and a Buhari who may surround his kitchen cabinet with his folks, even though he would be more trenchant in fighting corruption. In essence, the choice to make will be which of the two likely scenarios would better serve a country held captive by debilitating corruption in public service? Ordinarily, the coming election should have been a walk-over for a president who has made the fight against corruption the cornerstone of his administration, considering that corruption kills more Nigerians than even Boko Haram. In fact, it is corruption that undermined the efforts made by President Jonathan to fight the insurgents. Even the prevalence of perhaps the greatestcause of death in our country,malaria is attenuated by corruption, which has reduced the resources available to fight the scourge. The same challenge applies to the debilitating infrastructure that has hobbled our lives. Whether it the absence of roads, rails or even social infrastructure, corruption is at the bottom of the challenge. Considering the staggering billions of dollars, stolen since the era of oil boom, the fundamental challenge to our national existence is no doubt corruption. The countries that Nigeria was at par with at independence have long zoomed past, because they applied the resources they had more judiciously. Even the issue of a buoyant economy will be a ruse if there is no substantial honesty amongst government officials. One example. Nigeria has had many national economic development plans, yet in industrial terms, Nigeria is an import-dependent economy. Whether it the industries that were established or the banks to back it up, all have been swallowed in the cesspit of corruption. All the big ticket industries like the Ajaokuta steel industry, the various paper mills, the vehicle assembly plants, the refineries, the Nigerian Airways, the Nigerian Shipping line and the gamut of other enterprises, all have been killed by corrupt practices. So, ifthe electorate are discerning enough, the single most important factor to determine who wins between Atiku and Buhari should be who between the two has a better strategy to fight corruption. Of course, the two are not the best the country can offer, but either of the two will be our president-elect by February 16. In making a choice, one has to decide whether Atiku’s plan to grant amnesty would yield more resources to the national coffers than Buhari’s preference of chasing those accused of corruption until their vomit what they have stolen. Again, they must decide whether an aggressive enforcement or a liberal disposition to ruleswould better grow the economy, both in the short run and the long run. Furthermore, whetherthe stricter Buhari persona will drive an enhanced national development programmemore than the liberal Atiku persona or vice versa? Between the two who has the more effective aura needed in the fight against sundry criminality, including Boko Haram? Also, which of the two will better enhance the resuscitation of the sorely lacking physical and social infrastructure? Everything considered, it appears Buhari is a better option than Atiku.