The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has announced the appointment of Mr. Jude Chiemeka and Mr. Olumide Bolumole to its executive management team. Bolumole joins NSE as Divisional Head, Listing Business while Chiemeka joins as Divisional Head, Trading Business. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Oscar Onyema, said the Exchange was excited to have attracted such outstanding young business leaders to its management team at a time it is executing organisational growth and market wide initiatives. “I look forward to working with Jude and Olumide to continue executing our strategy of becoming the preferred African Exchange hub. Also, I will like to express my deep gratitude to Tony Ibeziako, Head, Primary Markets and Olufemi Onifade, Head, Secondary Markets, for leading the teams during the transition period,” Onyema said. Chiemeka expressed his pleasure to join the Exchange during this important stage when the NSE is evolving into a demutualised Exchange. “The Exchange has undergone a lot of transformation and I look forward to working alongside the great teams at the Exchange to accelerate the execution of the company’s strategy and drive greater value for our investors,” Chiemeka said. Bolumole expressed readiness to work with other talented employees and seasoned leadership team at the NSE to create an even stronger globally competitive market that is the preferred choice of discerning issuers across continents. Chiemeka comes with over 24 years’ experience in securities trading and asset management across markets in Africa. He joined NSE from United Capital Securities Limited a subsidiary of United Capital Plc, where he was the managing director. He had previously led other leading investment banking firms in Nigeria including Chapel Hill Denham Securities and Rencap Securities (Nigeria). He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers and an alumnus of University of Lagos, Lagos Business School as well as University of Oxford, United Kingdom. Bolumole is a financial market professional with close to two decades of experience in capital markets across; asset management and merchant banking. 