A man identified as Ralph Ohue has been arrested by the police in Lagos for allegedly breaking his son’s head over N500 theft allegation. Ohue was said to have used an iron to inflict injuries on the 14-year-old boy at their 9, Fatade Street, Isolo home on Wednesday night. Neighbours said they were shocked when they saw the boy running out of the house with blood all over his body. It was gathered that the man was enraged when he couldn’t five his N500 and he accused the boy of stealing it. A woman, who gave her name as Funke Ogunbiyi, said the incident occurred around 8pm, adding that another neighbour, who attempted to intervene, received punches from the angry dad. Ogunbiyi said: “I was hearing noise outside, so I went out to know what was happening. There was commotion in the house opposite ours. Suddenly, I just saw the boy running out. He was covered with blood. “I heard the father used an iron to hit the boy on his head. In the course of settling the issue, my neighbour received punches from the boy’s father. “After the fight, we saw some uniformed men, who came to pick the father. The boy’s mother was said to have come to take him away.” It was gathered that the Child Protection Network (CPN) learnt of the assault and reported same at Okota Police Station where the suspect was detained. An anti-human trafficking group, the Salvation Army, yesterday raised the alarm over an alleged assault of two Beninoise teenagers by a police inspector identified as Rosaline Olabisi, who was attached to Badagry Division. Olabisi, according to Adeola Oloke, who handled the case for the group, committed the alleged offence on May 28. He said the matter was reported at the Seme Border Police Post and moved to the Gender Office, Ikeja on May 29. “We have not heard anything since May 29 that the case was moved to Ikeja. The inspector claimed that the children were her daughters, but they publicly denied her. The children said they were from Benin Republic. “She was charged with abduction of the children, but we do not know what happened anymore. We are concerned and want to know where the children are. We want to know if they have been reunited with their families in Benin Republic.” Efforts to get police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), to comment on the issues were not successful last night.