There is great expectation as more powerful forces join hands to reconcile Edo State APC’s warring parties, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu SINCE the Edo State Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Anselem Ojesua, on Sunday, July 21, 2019 openly admitted in a broadcast interview that he is not capable of brokering peace between Governor Godwin Obaseki and APC’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, observers of the current Edo State’s political crisis have become even more apprehensive of the likely effect on the state’s polity. The Nation gathered during the week that as a result of this development, the efforts of concerned elders and leaders within and outside the state have been doubled. It would be recalled that the feud between the two leaders in the state has been blamed for the inability of the new Edo State House of Assembly to resume legislative sitting; even as many express fear that if the matter is not quickly resolved, the present impasse may be a reflection of what may happen in the next Edo State Governorship Election. Analysts and observers have so far made several claims on the genesis of the intricate face-off. While the various interest groups have come out to blame each other for the misunderstanding, concerned stakeholders and APC supporters have expressed fear that the issues must be resolved amicably and in good time before the next governorship election. Also while everyone seems to agree that it would be in the interest of the ruling party in the state to get to the roots of the matter, it was learnt that by the end of last week, even as the state protested the involvement of the National Assembly in the matter, many were still not able to gain an objective or clear picture of the extent of reconciliation moves so far made within the state. So when the state chairman, Anselem Ojesua, last Sunday admitted the inability of the state’s executive committee of the party to handle the matter, some elders that have so far kept off from the matter, according to a source, are now being persuaded to intervene in order to save APC in Edo. Asked to explain the issues behind the contention, Ojesua had said defensively, “I wish I knew,” and on how he, as the state chairman and the state party leaders are handling the development, he said, “Certainly, this one is beyond me… We are all under the former governor who is now the national chairman of APC. “It’s just that in this particular dispute, there seems to be a misunderstanding as to how this one should have been handled. I think it’s a problem of ‘handling’, not more than that.” Just like the onset, when the two leaders kept mum over the disagreement, there still remains a great deal of secrecy surrounding the major causes of the Edo APC. As Mr. Abusomwan Abebe told The Nation “this disagreement has left most APC members in the state and their supporters rather confused, mainly because of the hazy atmosphere. Nobody is revealing anything objectively. All we hear here, in Edo, are the different interest groups blaming each other and further creating an atmosphere of confusion,” he said. THE FACE-OFF For months after observers said Obaseki and Oshiomhole were no longer in agreement, the two leaders denied the claim, insisting that they were still a political family.  But reports soon confirmed existence of two well-funded groups fighting each other. While one of the groups promotes the cause of Obaseki, the other supports Oshiomhole. Through allegations and counter allegations, some political and other issues that border on governance have been named as the primary causes of the disagreement. They include the APC candidate for the next governorship election and administrative style of Governor Obaseki. In an earlier publication this July on this matter, The Nation reported that “the 2017 ban on the use of private individuals to collect state and local government revenue pitched Obaseki against those that benefited from the system across the state.” While the former private revenue collectors saw the action as a political ploy to frustrate and replace them, Obaseki’s loyalists insisted the governor, by introducing e-ticketing, only wanted to increase the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state. Whatever informed the policy, it led to a fundamental change that has long created wide division amongst the leading APC members in the state. Up till today, some supporters of Obaseki insist some of the people that lost out after that administrative change made by Obaseki were parts of the top politicians that formed the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), a group they alleged, would not support Obaseki’s re-election in the next election. Another known political matter that initially escalated the frosty relationship between Oshiomhole and Obaseki was the intrigues that trailed nomination of candidates ahead of the 2019 general elections. Some reports then linked cancellation of the Edo APC primaries to the disagreements of the two on this matter. The division became more apparent in May, when EPM, led by Elder Francis Evbuomwan and Barr Henry Idahagbon, came up with a communique explaining that their mission is to rescue the APC in Edo State from Governor Obaseki. The group said:  “We are committed to rescuing the All Progressive Congress in Edo State due to the monumental loss it suffered in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections as a result of the actions of Governor Godwin Obaseki towards the party and its members. “That we urge the national leadership of our party, the APC, to support this efforts else we stand the risk of losing hold on the government of Edo State to the other political parties with whom the governor is already empowering clandestinely. “That we condemn in the strongest terms the resort to intimidation and harassment of loyal party members by the governor and his aides on account of their dissent with the style of governance and not fulfillment of promises made to many local government areas.” To resolve the disagreements, several peace meetings have been held in Benin and Abuja. But it has become obvious that up till this week’s Friday, none of these peace meetings, including the one earlier hosted by President Muhammadu Buhari had succeeded in solving the problem. This is confirmed by the mega quarrel over the control of Edo State House of Assembly. Though the APC won all the 24 seats in the Assembly, peace had eluded the Assembly and the state political theatre: From the epic drama that heralded the election of the Assembly leaderships to protests, closure of the hallowed chamber and intervention of the National Assembly, the political atmosphere of the state has remained very tricky. COMPLEX RECONCILIATION PROCESS Sources told The Nation during the week that the ongoing reconciliation efforts for Edo crisis though ongoing has remained rather complicated until later this week when great progress was achieved in Abuja. “The two parties have remained stiff but more powerful forces are now involved, I can tell you,” a source in Abuja said. Before the latest breakthrough, APC chairman in Edo State, Anselm Ojezua had told newsmen in Lagos that the matter would be resolved eventually. He however said, “You see, we don’t even believe that the National Assembly has any business in this matter. We don’t even believe that it is right for them to take steps. But you know that we are obliged to be polite to them when they come calling for very obvious reasons. So, we made all the facts known because if we had rebuff them the tendency would have been to believe that we have something to hide. They have come and they have all the facts. What are the facts? That the seventh House of Assembly was inaugurated, that a leadership is in place and that they are actually functioning and that the matter is in court. With all that knowledge, what we expect them to report and to recommend is that in the light of all these facts they should be political solutions and also watch the judicial pronouncement. They didn’t do that rather they could not even wait for the National Assembly process to be completed before they went to town and therefore they may have justified speculations in town arising from an audio where one of the member-elect was boasting that the matter has been resolved and that the Senate President and Speaker of the House have been told what to do. And three days after, they did what the boy said, though prematurely of their own processes. That to my mind has compounded our problem rather than helping to resolve it. That is why I said when their energy is dissipated we will continue our reconciliation. We were on course before this. This thing you are seeing will be resolved. This is not the first time we are having issues in Edo State House of Assembly. If the need arises, we will do anything we have to do to protect our independence in the state.”