Keeping an eye all the time on the Rolls Royce, the Jaguar, the Bentley, the Maybach, the Lamborghini, the Alfa Romeo and the custom-built Mercedes Benz, the Cadillac and their lesser cousins, to say nothing of a collection of prizeless gold jewelry and the finest time pieces watches ever made, to say nothing of  proceeds from his money-spinning compilation on anti-corruption and his chart-bursting album, must be stress enough even for the zestful Senator Dino Melaye (PDP, Kogi West). To this vast acquisition, his fellow lawmakers, political associates, grateful contractors, diverse supplicants in one guise or another, and his teeming supporters, have now added 104 cows, their contribution, they said, to the burial expenses for his mother, Deaconess Comfort Melaye, who passed away recently.  I suspect the number will have since multiplied. Only a dozen or so of the cows are of local breed, I gather.  The rest are imports from Argentina, Brazil, South Africa, Botswana and New Zealand, prized for their milk and their fecundity, and even more so their meat, always finger-lickin’ delicious whether boiled, roasted, fried or barbecued. But in most communities in Nigeria today, and certainly in Melaye’s constituency, cows are not exactly the most welcome of animals, no matter their pedigree or the culinary pleasures advertised for them.  A cow or two might be tolerated.  In larger numbers, they are considered a menace to agriculture, and a good many of their minders have given herders a very bad name. But don’t pity Dino.  And don’t blame the donors. From direct as well as incidental experience that, on an occasion of that kind, there would be tens of thousands of mouths to feed from near and far, for an entire week or longer.  Beef may have become a vanishing commodity in many a home, but the burial of a senator’s mother should serve as an occasion to remind the public of the good old days that would be brought back if only they would vote wisely in the next election. Still, there were formidable issues of logistics to resolve.  Where would the cows be kept until they were ready for slaughter?  You couldn’t slaughter all of them anyway, even if residents of the entire local government area descended on Aiyetoro Gbedde.  So, what would you do with the rest?  How do you ensure that they did not stray onto adjacent farms and devour all the crops? The gifts that poured into Aiyetoro Gbedde did not consist entirely in cows, as Melaye, who enjoys a reputation for transparency and full disclosure, will reveal at the appropriate time.  Hundreds of sacks of rice and beans and gari and yam flour and cans of cooking oil jostled for storage space with thousands of cartons of beer and crates of soft drinks and boxes of pasta.  Goats and sheep and turkeys and hens came in even richer profusion. How they ferried in all that stuff through some of the worst roads in Nigeria is a well-guarded secret.  Sorting that vast array without the benefit of a mainframe computer or a computerised warehouse would have fazed even the chief of logistics of any army at war. Not our Dino. He rose magnificently to the occasion, drawing on his vast experience in the National Assembly. Indeed, there is no greater attestation than the occasion of the respect, love, esteem and affection his people have been showering on the distinguished senator and best-selling author and composer. Those who are forever denigrating and vilifying him now know better.  If ever there was a man of the people, that man is Dino. And yet, it was not long ago that some misguided people were gullible enough to allow themselves to be recruited into a plot to recall him from the House of Representatives, alleging that he was incurably delinquent and lacking in all the parliamentary arts.   The plot failed miserably.  Now the joke is on the plotters. Ensuring that everyone in that vast assemblage of sympathisers ate and drank as much as they wished was no easy task.  But it was accomplished with nary a hitch.  There was no limit to the number of servings they could have, nor the quantity the usual suspects could take home by the bucketful. To ensure that there was no stampede, the type that could be expected in a parlous economy in which yesterday’s necessities have become luxuries, food service was decentralised.  I gather that the uncompleted stadium built by his predecessor Smart Adeyemi in Kabba, 13 miles away, served as one of the reception centres.  That is an uncommon instance of political reconciliation. From mobilisation to superb execution, one shrewd observer noted, the whole thing had about it the aspect of a Constituency Project, the controversial undertaking that the National Assembly has enshrined in its manual of operations. All that remains, the fellow said, is a joint resolution of the House and the Senate to accord the burial of a parent, wife or husband of a lawmaker the status of a Constituency Project. He says he is almost certain that it will enjoy the unanimous support of the entire Assembly. The querulous in our midst will kvetch as is their wont.  Let them chafe.  One day, they will finally grasp the elementary truth that those who sacrifice so much to make laws for the good governace of our country ought to have their every need met by society. In the countryside, churches are usually just one short step away from insolvency.  So, burials of well-connected notables are propitious events, more so since they occur infrequently. Church officials have learned how to mine them to the last Naira. I recall the burial of the mother of an officer from the most lucrative of the para-military services at a nondescript village church several years ago.  Colleagues of the bereaved officer descended on the village in numbers that practically overwhelmed it.  Inside the church, it was standing room only.  There were more people outside than inside. Crisp banknotes, sometimes bundles of them, filled the collection plates during the thanksgiving, only to be emptied into more commodious receptacles for a fresh collection.  At the invitation of the officiating priest, friends, relations, associates, former classmates, in-laws, former golf partners neighbours, anyone who could be linked to the bereaved, however tangentially, were invited, one group at a time, to head to the altar to give thanks. Then it was the turn of those who had come from Lagos, from the state capital, from Abuja and points in between, not forgetting those who had come from abroad and were expected to express their thanks in foreign currencies. When he had exhausted every possible combination and permutation of those in attendance (algorithms had not come into popular use back then), the officiating priest gently urged all those who wanted the work of the Lord to prosper to proceed to the altar with their offerings. I will be surprised if the commemoration service at Aiyetoro Gbedde, did not follow that pattern. Given the roll call of those attending, their status and their power and their wealth, and the sheer splendour of the occasion, the Apostolic Church of the Lord (Oke Ayo Assembly) and indeed the town will never be the same again. I can almost hear the reader asking:  What is going to happen to all the cows and sheep and goats and turkeys and hens that were not slaughtered, and to the food items that were not cooked? Dino said in one facetious moment that he might have to join the Myetti Allah Cow Breeders Association so as to profit from the Federal Government’s projected RUGA project.  Don’t believe him.  The future of the project is uncertain in any case. He has since decided to enter the impending race for governor of Kogi to take out the bumbling incumbent, rather than bide his time and win back the presidency for the PDP in 2022. The surplus from the burial could spell the difference between victory and defeat.