National Association of Nigeria Students Joint Campus Committee (NANS-JCC) Ekiti axis, has elected new executive. The election held during its convention at the Federal University Oye-Ekiti, (FUOYE), Ekiti State. The union aims at uniting all tertiary institutions in Ekiti State and discussing matters that affect them in order to proffer solutions. The schools under this body are FUOYE; Federal Polytechnic Ado; College of Education Ikere and College of Science and Health Technology, Ijero-Ekiti. In attendance at the convention were past chairmen, students leaders, students union presidents of each school, stakeholders and other student activists. Ogunleye Abiola Johnson from Ekiti State University, who emerged NANS –JCC chairman promised to be diligent in promoting the union interests among its peers. Addressing the students after the election, Ogunleye vowed to ”restore the power and the beauty of students unionism in Ekiti State”. A member of the immediate past executive, Raji Sobur Kewulere from FUOYE, who emerged as Ogunleye’s vice, pledged to continue pursuing students’ interest from where the last administration stopped. Other officers were Lasisi Ojo Samuel from FUOYE, who emerged as the Director of Campus Affairs, while Moshood Abiola from Federal Polytechnic Ado, became the Treasurer. Comrades Salawudeen Kamorudeen Alade and Owaraye Damilola Emmanuel emerged Director of Special Duties and Public Relations Officer respectively. The chairman of the convention, Shina Awopeju, who told CAMPUSLIFE NANS-JCC’s role, said “the joint campus committee (JCC) is for the state”. ”Therefore, all the tertiary institutions in the state automatically belong to NANS. All SU presidents are senators under NANS.  So, if there are agitations from the students or external forces by the government or private sector that are beyond the capacity of SU, then NANS comes into play.” The immediate past chairman of the association, Olomosola Olubunmi, advised the new executives to ensure they move the association forward. He said there must be a huge difference between what his administration achieved and what his successor should look up to. “There are challenges coming your way as you take the mantle today, but you need to be focused. It is not an easy task, but don’t be moved by the storm,” he said, adding: “What I experienced from the government and how I stayed strong is enough to guide them.”