Finally, President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed a new Executive Secretary for the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). He is Prof Mohammed Sambo. He takes over from the suspended from the Executive Secretary, Prof. Usman Yusuf. The President has also dissolved the board of the scheme. In the absence of the board, the permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health has been directed to exercise full powers of the Council pending the constitution of a new Board. Buhari also approved the appointment of Dr Chikwe Andrea Ihekweazu as Director –General (DG) of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). According to a statement signed by the Director, Media and Publicity, Ministry of Health, Mrs. Boade Akinola, the appointment is in line  with the provisions of section 11(1)(3) of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(Establishment) Act, 2018. The statement noted that the appointment of the new Executive Secretary was as a result of the recommendations by the Independent fact finding panel. The implementation of the report of the panel is coming about seven minths after the panel turned in its report. The terse statement announcing the new appointment reads: ” Following the recommendations of report by an Independent Fact Finding Panel on National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the termination of appointment of the Current Executive Secretary, who has been on administrative leave and has approved the appointment of Prof. Mohammed Nasir Sambo as the new Executive Secretary. “Similarly, the President also approved the dissolution of the Governing Board of NHIS and directed the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health to exercise full powers of the Council pending the constitution of a new Board. “President Buhari has also approved the appointment of Dr. Chikwe Andreas Ihekweazu as Director –General (DG) of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).the appointment is in line  with the provisions of section 11(1)(3) of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(Establishment) Act, 2018.”