The three tiers of government have been urged to support Nigerians through loans and other financial assistance to afford renewable energy to achieve a healthy environment. Speaking at the official inauguration of 15KVA off-grid power system constructed by the company, the Chief Executive Officer, Solonic Energy Limited, Mr. Olu Adenodi said that the only way to overcome the climate change ravaging the country was to embrace renewable energy as other hazardous sources of energy had been the cause of climate change. “The Federal Government must support its citizens to afford this renewable energy and do away with hazardous sources of energy and reduce the effect of climate change. Nigerians are tired of the challenges of estimated bills and other lighting problems; it is high time we embrace renewable energy. The only challenge with this is that it is not cheap, though the energy from the sun is free, the equipment to tap it for use is not cheap,” he said. He said that financial institutions could be approached to grant interested individuals soft loans to afford the renewable energy, while they pay back on instalments. “We must achieve a neat and healthy environment where people’s lives will not be threatened by the carbon monoxide polluting the environment with our generators and other hazardous sources of lighting. “The Federal Government must support its citizens to afford this renewable energy to do away with hazardous sources of energy and reduce the effect of climate change. “Nigerians are tired of the challenges of estimated bills and other lighting problems; it is high time we embrace renewable energy. The only challenge with this is that it is not cheap, though the energy from the sun is free, the equipment to tap it for use is not cheap,” he said. Adenodi urged the Federal Government to stabilise the national grid so that excess energy generated in the country could be absorbed by the grid. Earlier, Managing Director of the company, Mr. Peter Ewemen, advised Federal Government to give absolute support to the growth of renewable energy. 