In a bid to reposition his administration for optimal performance and for the actualisation of his redemption agenda, Ondo State governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has approved the allocation of portfolio to commissioners and special advisers. Some commissioners were moved to new ministries, while newly inaugurated cabinet members allocated their portfolios. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Segun Ajiboye, the governor directed the affected commissioners and special advisers to handover all necessary documents within the next week. The portfolios for the commissioners are Kola Olawoye, SAN Attorney General and Comm. for Justice, Mr. Wale Akinterinwa Finance, Pastor Emmanuel Igbasan Economic Planning and Budget, Funso Esan Environment, Yemi Olowolabi Culture and Tourism, Mrs. Julianah Omolola Fagbemi Local Govt. and Chieftaincy Affairs, Prof Bayonile Ademodi Regional Integration and Special Duties Femi Agagu Education, Science and Technology ,Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, Health and Rasheed Badmus, Physical Planning and Urban Development. Others are Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye Works and Infrastructure, Otunba Adegboyega Adefarati Agriculture, Donald Ojogo Information and Orientation, Mrs. Yetunde Adeyanju Water Resources, Public Sanitation and Hygiene, Mrs. Titilayo Adeyemi Women Affairs and Social Development,Temitayo Oluwatuyi Natural Resources,Fatai Olotu Lands and Housing,Akindotun Olubunmi Owanikin,Esq, Youth and Sports Development. The Special Advisers are Dr. Olawumi Juliet Ilawole, Education Akinboye Taiwo Oyewumi Investment and Development, Tunji Ifabiyi, Commerce and Industry, Engr. Tunji Ariyomo Energy, Tobi Ogunleye, Esq. Transport, Alaba Isijola, Union Matters, Engr. Raimi Olayiwola Aminu, Lands, Works and Infrastructure,Mrs. Olubunmi Olubukola Ademosu,Public and Intergovernmental Relations. The rest are Dr. Jibayo Adeyeye Health, Rt. Hon. Adekanye Olabimtan, Political Matters and Strategy, Babatunde Kolawole, Rural and Community Development and Oyebo Aladetan,Niger Delta Affairs