Odion Jude Ighalo, the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) goalador, appears to have got his revenge, against rude Nigerian ball fans, who love to hate him, even if he kills himself playing for this motherland. Ighalo, the supreme goal poacher, just announced his entry into the AFCON record books by emerging the highest scorer, in the just concluded championship in Egypt with five goals.  That was a big deal, in a competition that involves big names like Egypt’s Mo Sallah, Senegal’s Sadio Mane and Algeria’s Riyad Mahrez.  He beat them all to the Golden Boot. Besides, even a bigger deal: with the great Rashidi Yekinni, he is sharing the record of banging in five goals as top scorer.  Ay, Yekinni in 1994, went in to help propel Nigerian as African champions for the second time.  Well, Ighalo could only help get an umpteenth bronze, which unlike old times, doesn’t  really appear golden again. Even then, Ighalo proved his mettle: his seven goals helped Nigeria scale the qualifiers, even after the opening loss to South Africa, at the back yard of Uyo.  Also, his five goals propelled Nigeria to bronze at the championship proper, even if he didn’t fully play every match, as Yekinni did. Indeed, in the opening and third place matches, Ighalo only played 45 minutes or less.  In the opener, he came in a substitute to bury the winner against Burundi, during  the remaining 25 minutes of the match that he played.  In the third place match, it was within three minutes that he struck, and quit, no thanks to injury, at half time. Also, in the World Cup qualifiers, Ighalo’s goals buried Cameroon, a feat he repeated with his brace against the Indomitable Lions in Egypt. Moral?  Ighalo had always proved his mettle, any time he put on the green-white-green.  Yet, each time he made a mistake — as he did at the World Cup in France against Argentina — fans tear at him as if he is the most useless member of the squad. Well, Ighalo is having his revenge — threatening retirement; being begged to stay on, and playing coy, whichever way! It’s great Ighalo is keeping his traducers quiet for once.  But his odyssey is only another manifestation of the bad socialization of contemporary Nigerians to public officials.  They gripe and howl and scream and abuse and curse and threaten — just because a fellow citizen is putting his or her talent at the service of the common good. That is a bad piece of socialization contemporary Nigeria must shun.  Else, many a good talent would flee the public space.  Nigeria can only be the loser. 