Acting Rector of Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, Dr Olawoye Olaniran, has  called on students who are on break to resume as lectures are set to commence in earnest. Olaniran, a Chief Lecturer in the Department of Banking and Finance of OSPOLY, was appointed Rector in acting capacity by Osun State governor Gboyega Oyetola, following the expiration of tenure of the former Rector, Dr Jacob Agboola. Unfortunately, at the twilight of Agboola’s tenure was the death of Shehu Aminu, an HND student of Food Science and Technology. Shehu allegedly died of being denied medical attention at the school’s health centre. The development irked the students, who in retaliation set the health facility on fire. However, during an inter-religious prayers organised for members of the polytechnic community to mark the commencement of his administration, Olaniran promised to improve the standard of the institution. He equally assured that the school’s management would priortise workers’ and students’ welfare, adding that under his watch, necessary infrastructure would be put in place to ensure accreditation of the institution’s programmes by its regulatory body, National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). Olaniran, who appreciated his predecessor’s efforts also thanked the state government for giving him the opportunity to administer the school. In a statement by the school’s media relations officer, Mr Tope Abiola, the Acting Rector assured the aggrieved students that various contending issues would soon be addressed. Responding, the Chief Imam of Iree community, Alhaji Sulaiman Adeyemo, enjoined Olaniran to be focused and dedicated to service in order to succeed.  He similarly enjoined members of the polytechnic community to support Olaniran’s mandate to deliver the institution. Speaking on workers’ behalf, Registrar of the Institution, Mr. Busari Salawu assured Olaniran of management’s unflinching support, as well as cooperation from workers and students. “We shall join hands with you to succeed,” Salawu assured Olaniran. Olaniran hails from Gbongan  in Ayedaade Local Government Area of the state. He has Ph.D in Entrepreneurship from Jomo Kenyata University of Agriculture and Technology, Kenya, Master’s of Science in Economics from the University of Ibadan and Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration. Olaniyan had flourished in the corporate world befpre joining the services of OSPOLY in 1994.