With support from the Lagos State Government, the  Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), in collaboration with Population Matters, a UK-based charity,will host this year’s World Population Day, with the theme Population and Sustainability in Nigeria and beyond. The event will hold on Thursday, July 11, at Lekki Conservation Foundation, Lekki Lagos by 9am. Director-General, Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano, said that the celebration is borne out of the foundation’s strong belief that unsustainable population is a global problem that must be addressed in both underdeveloped as well as developed world countries, where population   growth may be low. But he noted that the consumption and global environmental impact are high and in countries of the Global South where global impact is low but population growth may be high. “Therefore, the campaign is to achieve a sustainable human population, to protect the natural world and improve people’s lives.” “The aim of this event is to create awareness and generate public discuss that will address both global population and the impacts of growth in Nigeria; interfacing with stakeholders in examining local solutions; examining how Nigeria can contribute towards international policy initiatives to address unsustainable population.” Expected to speak at the event are, Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu;, Hon Federal Commissioner, National Population Commission Barrister Bimbola Salu-Hundeyin; Dr Aminu-Kano; Director, Population Matters, UK, Mr. Robin Maynard, CEO, Foundation for a Better Environment (FABE) Mrs. Temitope Okunnu, Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of the Environment Mr. Abiodun Bamgboye, and, Director Tourism, Lagos State Ministry of Culture and Tourism Mrs Flora Adamma Oni According to the United Nations, by 2050 the global population will be 9.7bn and the Nigerian population will be more than 400m. By the middle of the century, Nigeria will overtake the US as the world’s third most populous country. These figures are the UN’s main, medium variant, projections. With 95% certainty, it projects a global population in the range between 9.4 and 10.1 billion in 2050, and between 9.4 and 12.7 billion in 2100 (with a medium projection of 10.9bn).