Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel has ordered the closure of illegal motor parks across the 31 local government areas of the state in a bid to checkmate criminal activities. The order is to be carried out by the state branches of the Road Transport And Employers Association of Nigeria(RTEAN) in collaboration with the National Union of Road Transport Workers(NURTW). Chairman of the RTEAN, Mr. Emmanuel Judge Udo, who disclosed this to our correspondent on Thursday in Uyo, said the state government has given a matching order for all illegal parks to be closed down. Udo said henceforth loading and offloading of passengers would be done at government designated motor parks across the 31 council areas of the state, adding the move will help curtail crime incidents such as kidnapping, armed robbery, rape among others. He said the operation, which commenced on the 7 July, is backed up by which mobile courts attached to a committee to prosecute offenders. Udo disclosed that so many vehicles have been impounded and their owners charged to court for violating government directive. ”We are looking forward to make sure that the commuters board vehicles in the government approved parks across the 31 local government areas. ”We are expecting the masses to comply with us to use the government approved parks by boarding their vehicles to difference destination. ”It is a welcome development and we in the Road Transport Association of Nigerian and National Union of Road Transport Workers are working hand in hand to ensure we sanitise the state and to be a safe place for people that live here and investors coming to the state. “The Akwa State Government has approved Alliance Insurance to manage passengers’ insurance scheme. “This will ensure that passengers that use Akwa Ibom transport will be captured in the manifesto so that we can know who comes in and their purpose. “And if anything happens, in the case of accident, displacement of goods or luggage we can trace back to where you boarded the vehicle and know how to get the luggage,” he said. Chairman of NURTW, Obong Uwem Imo Inyang also appealed to the travellers to use government approved parks for their safety. Inyang appreciated Governor Emmanuel for handing the parks to be controlled by the Unions in order to make the state safe for all.