The Amirul hajj of Lagos State, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, has urged pilgrims from the state to pray for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to succeed in office. Addressing the pilgrims in Makkah, Saudi Arabia on Friday, Dr AbdulLateef said the governor and his deputy, Dr  Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat, deserve the support of Lagosians. “We have no doubt in their competence to take Lagos to a greater height, but our support for their administration will go a long way to make it easy for them,” he said. According to him, governing a state like Lagos is an onerous task, saying “Lagosians need to be patient with the duo. They have been in the system before; they understand the task ahead and I am sure they will not disappoint us.” The Amirul hajj also enjoined the pilgrims to pray for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and President Muhammadu Buhari. Nigeria, he said, needs Allah’s help to move forward. He said: “Issues of insecurity, food crisis and economy among others, battling our country are too numerous for those at the helm of affairs to resolve. Only Allah can help them resolve it. “Allah can because of one person’s prayer show mercies on Nigeria and make our country overcome the myriad of challenges.” Meanwhile, no fewer than 2,269 Lagos pilgrims have completed the performance of Umrah in the city of Makkah. Dr Abdul Lateef said the pilgrims have also completed their pre-visit to Jabal Nuru, Jabal Thor, Jabal Arafat, Muna and Musdalifah. He said: “This is to prepare the mind of the pilgrims for the task ahead of them in the course of preforming the proper Hajj. ” This will also awake the determination of the pilgrims to be ready to withstand the challenges that are likely to come with the exercise,” he said. He urged the pilgrims to be patient as more tedious hajj exercise are ahead of them. “Avoid stressing yourselves especially in the sun. Rest as much as possible to prepare yourselves for the big task. “Your major goal is the main hajj rituals; we should not exhaust ourselves before those period.” 