Worried about the different legal landmines it has to navigate to recover the N5trillion debt yet to be paid by recalcitrant debtors, the board of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) is leaving no stone unturned in its quest for justice, report Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf and Charles Okonji The board and management of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) is in a horns of a dilemma, in a manner of speaking. Reason: it has been battling to recover debts in arrears of N5trillion with minimal successes thus far. How it all started Early in its operations AMCON acquired about 13,774 non-performing loans (NPLs) worth N3.6 trillion from 22 commercial banks and provided financial accommodation of N2.2billion, protected N4.7trillion of depositors’ funds and interbank takings as well as saved approximately 14,000 jobs. Through AMCON’s intervention, the federal government successfully managed to save the banking system from systemic collapse. But this achievement will not be complete until and unless it recovers those bad debts, which it used taxpayers’ money to purchase. Reality bite Today, AMCON seems to have exhausted all strategies in debt recovery books in its bid to get the job done. For example, AMCON recovered the sum of N152.3 billion from its equity injection of N1.49 trillion into five Eligible Financial Institutions (EFIs). This represents a 10% recovery rate on investment. Similarly, AMCON successfully divested the three bridge banks to private investors for a combined sum ofN207.8 billion a 23% recovery rate on amount invested. Subsequently, the Corporation tinkered with the novel idea of Asset Management Partners (AMPs).  The AMPs are consortiums with specialist skills required to ensure recovery and debt resolution from banking, legal, valuation and accounting backgrounds. The move is AMCON’s strategy to resolve over 6,000 accounts with loan balances of N100 million and below. In this arduous task of debt recovery Ahmed Lawan Kuru, managing director and CEO of AMCON, has maintained that he’s is not oblivious of the fact that debtors are not necessarily enemies and that they should be supported to transform their NPLs to RPLs (re-performing loans) through enhancing their productivity. That has been tried successfully with some obligors. The case of Skye Bank (now Polaris Bank) in 2018 and Arik Air takeover provide good examples here. AMCON, provided working capital in excess of about N4 billion to Arik Air Limited to salvage its operations. It is important to note that Arik Air, prior to the injection of the working capital, was indebted to AMCON to the tune of N142 billion. The efforts have since effectively stabilised the operation of the airline. AMCON was also instrumental to the rescue of Skye Bank Plc. (now Polaris Bank Limited) orchestrated by the CBN and the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation. In September 2018, AMCON injected the sum of N898 billion into Polaris Bank Limited to prevent it from collapse. While giving a fresh perspective on AMCON’s recovery drive, Bashir Ibrahim Hassan, a financial analyst, from Abuja said, AMCON’s interventions have largely worked. “The truth is that no company or individual is forced to borrow money in the first place. Ultimately, if companies owe a debt, it’s because they chose to borrow money. Their lenders made that loan, or offered the credit line, contingent upon a documented pledge to pay back. This means creditors do have a right to their money, and a debt collector is simply trying to reclaim what is legally and ethically owed by the debtor.” New thinking From available information, so far AMCON) has recovered about N1.22 trillion of the bad debt, with about N5 trillion still outstanding. But to many discerning observers, the agency’s reputation has for long been blemished by the impression that, while recoveries are made from those without political clout, well-connected people known to be big debtors walk the streets freely. However, if the blessed assurance of Vice-President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is anything to go by, things are about to change for the better. “I think the time has come for us to set some examples with some of these top debtors of AMCON, which…will serve as deterrent to others.” The federal government, he said, will set up an inter-agency collaboration framework that would comprise relevant government Ministries, Departments and Agencies supervised by his office to ensure that institutions and individuals indebted to AMCON were not allowed to do business with government henceforth. This, expectedly, will hit the obligors hard and will force them to cough some millions to settle the debt they owe AMCON. He then assured the management and the board that the federal government is “committed to working more closely with your administration to ensure that these monies are recovered from AMCON obligors, because it will help our economy and provide the government with more money to continue to improve on the development of infrastructure across the nation.” Interestingly, such marshal order from the presidency sends the right signal that it won’t be business as usual for debtors. As to be expected, in line with its new mandate AMCON has forged a synergy of cooperation with relevant law enforcement agencies to achieve its set objective. One of the key law enforcers AMCON is already working with is the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). AMCON paid a courtesy call on the agency in its headquarters in Abuja last Wednesday, where its Chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye disclosed plans by the commission to collaborate with the former towards the recovery of N5trillion owed AMCON by obligors. He made the declaration when he received the Board and Management of AMCON led by the Corporation’s Board Chairman, Dr. Muiz Banire SAN. Prof. Owasanoye who received the AMCON delegation at ICPC headquarters while describing the huge debt profile of AMCON as sobering situation especially as the figure represents about 50 per cent of Nigeria’s 2019 budget, further said the situation has become existential challenge for the country since the few people who are holding the country to ransom are still walking free and waxing strong in the society. Considering the positive impact, the funds would have in the economy if recovered, Prof. Owasanoye declared that the time has come for the ICPC and other relevant sister agencies to partner AMCON and support the debt recovery drive. He however pledged that the ICPC under his leadership is ready to work with Ahmed Lawan Kuru, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of AMCON and the Board members to recover as much of these debts as possible before sunset. “We have to be practical in our approach. Something needs to be done and very fast too given the approaching AMCON sunset because this is public funds we are talking about here. We need AMCON and ICPC to work closer and develop a strategy that would work. We need the public to know the opportunity cost of the huge debt to the Nigerian economy, we need to share information as sister agencies locally and internationally and treat this matter as a last lap race by setting up a joint taskforce to deal with this sobering issue,” he added. The ICPC boss, who is of the opinion that obligors of AMCON are made to face the music, which he said would serve as deterrent to others further added, “If these matters are not properly challenged and well treated, we can predict based on history that these set of people or their clones would repeat this circle of borrowing and would tell you that in the past, some people borrowed and defaulted and nothing happened. So something has to be done.” 