As the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State prepares for its governorship primaries, Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, reports that the party’s leaders, including members of the Elders Advisory Council, are desperate to resolve internal squabbles, including the disagreement between former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Seriake Dickson’s loyalists ALTHOUGH the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is the ruling party in Bayelsa State, it has been observed that most of its members and supporters are worried that internal disagreements may endanger its chances of winning the November 16, 2019 Governorship Election. Their concern stems from the fear that the prolonged cold war between loyalists of former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Seriake Dickson may not be truly resolved before the party primaries. The differences between supporters of the two PDP leaders have become more pronounced since the party began preparations for this year’s governorship election as members worry over who, between Jonathan and Dickson, should wield more influence in determining the choice of Dickson’s successor. While aides and associates of the two leaders reel out reasons each of them should determine the party’s standard bearer, party elders and supporters express concern that except this matter is resolved before the party primaries, the party may participate in the governorship election as a divided house; a development they said may give the major opposition party, All Progressives Congress (APC), an advantage. Although Bayelsa, since 1999, has remained a firm PDP state, members and supporters of the party are worried because of the increasing influence of APC in the state. Before the last general election, some PDP supporters in the state described it as an Ijaw party, but the last election raised concern amongst them as APC won Goodluck Jonathan’s Bayelsa East Senatorial District and two seats in the House of Representatives. Although PDP refused to accept that result, everyone seems to blame the outcome on the alleged face-off between Jonathan and Dickson and agrees that it is a pointer to the fact that if the party fails to resolve the internal squabbles, it may pay for it during the governorship election. THE BEGINNING OF THE FACE-OFF While Dickson emerged governor of the state in 2012 with clear support of the then President Jonathan, the relationship between the two went sour shortly after Dickson’s emergence, when it was alleged that Jonathan allowed forces from his office, backed by his wife, Dame Patience, to persecute the governor. The quarrel, which started as a mere rumour, degenerated when Dickson battled impeachment plot that would have stopped him from completing his first term. His associates had blamed the then President Jonathan for the plot. So, even after Dickson survived the impeachment plot, his supporters alleged that if Jonathan had succeeded in securing a second term, the governor may not have completed his first term. This allegation, according to Engr. Joshua … has served as the fuel that powers the fire threatening the relationship between the former political associates. It has also influenced the rather cold relationship between Dickson and Jonathan since the former president lost the 2015 Presidential Election. We gathered that as soon as Jonathan lost the election and returned to the state, Dickson quickly took full control of the state’s PDP structures. What followed was a period of cold war that recently degenerated to allegations and counter allegations. The situation became so glaring when an online report claimed that Jonathan has left PDP and has retired from active politics. The former President had to deny the report in a statement by his aide, Ikechukwu Eze. In the statement, Jonathan said he has no reason to quit the PDP or retire from politics for now. Describing the news as fake, Eze said the report was a “calculated attempt to rubbish the elder statesman”. “The PDP gave Jonathan the platform to serve as Deputy Governor, Governor, Vice President and eventually President of Nigeria. Jonathan has no reason at this time to resign his membership of the platform. “Those who derive pleasure in spreading fake information had better occupy themselves with more productive endeavours that are obviously more relevant to nation building. “Obviously, this is a fabrication borne out of mischief as the publishers of the fake story claimed that the former President made the statement while being interviewed by News Agency of Nigeria. “There is absolutely no way the former President could have spoken to a non-existent news agency, as none in the country goes by that name,” the statement stated. Even with that denial, some PDP insiders said Dickson is in full control of the party and is determined to choose his successor in November. The outcome of the last general elections in the state seems to lend credence to this belief as it is generally said that all the PDP candidates that emerged victorious in the National Assembly and House of Assembly elections are the governor’s loyalists. For example, it is said that out of the 24 seats in the House of Assembly, 20 PDP lawmakers are Dickson’s loyalists. So, observers believe the governor will use his control of both the party structure and elected officials to dictate who would fly the party’s governorship flag. But reacting to that allegation, Dickson has said he won’t impose any candidate on the party during the primary election. He gave the promise during a solidarity visit to the Chairman of Daar Communications, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, over the recent suspension of his company’s licence by the National Broadcasting Commission. The governor was responding to a question over the internal wrangling in the Bayelsa State chapter of his party and if it was true he had perfected plans to impose the PDP governorship candidate for the November Governorship Election. He said: “The people talking about manipulation are anticipating that they should be imposed. I’m not going to impose any of them. Any of them who feel they have experience and capacity should go and make their case to the people of Bayelsa State.” He added, “I hope the right person with competence and capacity emerges to build on the foundation which we have laid over the last seven years. I have no doubt that the right person will emerge with my support.” Expressing confidence that his party will retain power in Bayelsa, he said: “The PDP is the most prepared party. I have in the last years built a solid, formidable and an all-inclusive party, such that even those who left found it as the most attractive platform to return to. “The party leaders will play their roles, and the delegates ultimately will decide who the candidate shall be.” Although some reports said Jonathan may have lost control of the party machinery to Dickson and as a result may not have a say on the likely candidate of the party in the forthcoming governorship election, sources said the former President’s loyalists, who still see him as the leader of PDP in the state, believe the national leadership of the party may prefer to work with Jonathan in its search for the right candidate. But Dickson’s loyalists have threatened that such a decision would be counterproductive. WILL ZONING INFLUENCE PDP? Aside possible influence of the two political leaders, it is being speculated that zoning may play a major role in determining who PDP will eventually give its governorship ticket. So far, Bayelsa Central Senatorial District seems to be making the loudest demand. Even then, some agitators want the ticket to go to Yenagoa while others are agitating for Southern Ijaw. There are even some who suggest that the ticket can be given to someone from Ogbia Local Government Area, Goodluck Jonathan’s local government area, saying such gesture would offer opportunity of de-freezing the icy relationship between Jonathan and Dickson and thus foster the needed unity the party needs to face the governorship election.  There is also the so-called Kolokuma-Opokuma agenda, thus further complicating the race. ELDERS TO THE RESCUE More than the issues of zoning or the candidate to fly the flag, The Nation gathered that the elders of PDP and other close stakeholders are concerned over the need to fully reconcile Jonathan and Dickson’s supporters so as to ensure that the party participates in the governorship election as a united political family. One of the major forces in this assignment is the recently inaugurated Peoples Democratic Party Elders Advisory Council. Since the inauguration, both Jonathan and Dickson have publicly spoken well of each other, thereby giving impression that they may have resolved work as a family. Jonathan started it when he commended Dickson, saying the state has taken shape under his administration since 2012. A statement by the Special Adviser on Media Relations to the governor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, said the former President praised Dickson for building a befitting edifice as office complex and official residence for the governor and deputy. He quoted Jonathan as saying, “Let me use this opportunity to appreciate the governor for this office. I am saying this because this is the first time I’m entering the office and luckily all of us here are part of this story from 1996 and then of course as politicians when we took over May, 1999. “I knew that we started by using a bungalow, the party secretariat as the government house office and so on; the governor started from living in a bungalow, the deputy also in a bungalow that was how we started and now the state has taken shape. “We are now in a standard office; the governor is also residing in a standard house; so Bayelsa State is progressing. So, I thank the governor very sincerely. I always say that if you have the opportunity to be a head somewhere, president or governor, chairman of council or any other position, you should be able to add value to the environment.” On his part, Dickson said the PDP was poised to retain its control of the state even as he called for stronger cohesion within the party. He advised members and aspirants to avoid pursuing their ambitions at the expense of the party. “The ambitions are legitimate but we must note that what is important is our unity and cohesion within the party,” he said. The second evidence that the reconciliation efforts may have started to yield fruit is the recent appointment of Jonathan by Dickson as his Honorary Special Adviser on the Bayelsa Education Trust Fund Board. Dickson had said that his action was in recognition of Jonathan’s educational strides when he laid a solid foundation for the state’s education system as governor. Besides, he openly described the former president as “our leader,” a description that, according Joshua, has gone a long way in reducing the tension. Perhaps, more than Dickson’s gesture to the former president, observers said Jonathan’s acceptance of the offer not only shows rare simplicity and humility, but also confirms that the PDP leaders may have indeed resolved to enter the race as a united family. It remains to be seen how far they would go in choosing an acceptable candidate for the November election.