By first week of July, 2019, the Saudi Arabian airspace will begin to receive pilgrims from different countries, signifying onset of 2019 Hajj season. All things being equal, NAHCON is honoured to be among those whose pilgrims will be making early entrance for the pilgrimage within the first week of the season, 10th of July to be precise. Here are few developments that pilgrims should expect in 2019 Hajj operations. Each pilgrim that has completed initial payment of Hajj fares for 2019 slot should expect a refund of a little over N51, 000. Cumulatively, Nigerian pilgrims have been saved payment of about N3, 326, 079, 250 (three billion naira, three hundred and twenty-six million, seventy-nine thousand, two hundred and fifty), through this discount. Considering the huge cumulative amount, declaring the discount itself is considered a testimony of NAHCON leadership’s stance on accountability and transparency. Another expectation is, if Saudi Arabian authorities conclude arrangements to screen pilgrims from across their respective countries’ departure centres, Nigerian intending pilgrims to 2019 Hajj should expect immigration screening by their Saudi Arabian brethren here in Nigeria in an arrangement code named “MakkaRoad Project”. Under this arrangement, intending pilgrims will be relieved of their hand luggage from their departure points only to receive them upon arrival in their designated hotels in Makka or Madinah. This will reduce the risk of being scammed with drugs as well as reduce waiting time at Saudi airports. Security is paramount in Hajj operations. And this the commission knows very well. A security analyst discerned that after electioneering periods, Hajj season is the next most security challenging times for Nigerian security apparatus. Indeed, the two occasions propel movement of large number of people at the same time, creating room for people with dangerous motives to try to unleash their wicked machinations.  It is hence the responsibility of government to anticipate and apprehend evil plots in order to protect each Nigerian going forth to cast his vote or going forth to participate in Hajj. Same security surveillance will be extended to the Nigerian pilgrims in Makkah and Madinah considering the reprehensible assaults carried out on some of them during last year’s exercise. There is also the NAHCON helpline through which complaints can be lodged while in Saudi Arabia, +966920008251. Hence, pilgrims’ gentility is necessary both within and outside the country. Proper comportment at the airports fast-tracks clearance and onward movements, it eases work of the security personnel, Hajj managers and other stakeholders. It also projects a positive image of the country such that elicited various commendations for Nigerian pilgrims in the previous year. Pilgrims travelling through private tour operators should expect to pay a little extra for rail transportation to Makkah. It was observed that these categories of pilgrims usually arrive the Kingdom late when most transport companies have leased out their vehicles. The arrangement is therefore to accommodate insufficiency of buses occasioned by increased movement of pilgrims during the period leading to ayyamul tashrie (days of Hajj rites). On a final note, it is hoped that the feeding arrangements put on ground for Nigerian contingent will satisfy and impress them. It is the hope of the Commission that pilgrims will enjoy dishes from indigenous cuisines to be prepared by Nigerian hands in collaboration with their Saudi Arabian business counterparts. Besides, there is provision for special diets. However, if the dishes fail to satisfy our pilgrims, specific complaints are welcome. The details in the complaint should include the state where the meal was served, time, type and reason for the disapproval.   