Dufil Prima Foods, makers of Indomie noodles, has given out N4 million in scholarships to 40 junior secondary and primary school pupils in Choba community, Rivers State. Choba is the host community for the firm’s factory in Rivers State. The funds will cater for the children’s educational needs, including tuition, books and others. Ten pupils from the four public schools in the community – two junior and two secondary schools – got N100,000 each based on their academic standing in the last session. The benefiting schools are Community Junior Secondary School; Olobo Premier College; Universal Primary Education (UPE) and State Primary School. The Group Public Relations and Events Manager of Dufil Prima Foods, Temitope Ashiwaju, handed the cheques to the beneficiaries at a ceremony in Port Harcourt. He said the gesture was borne out of the need to reward academic excellence and spur the pupils to do more. For Dufil, it was also a way of adding value to the lives of residents of its host community. According to Ashiwaju, education is one of the pillars of Dufil’s corporate social investments. He said Dufil would stop at nothing to ensure every child is supported to become the best they can be. He said: “Dufil Prima Foods is passionate about education, and we will continue to support education in Nigeria through scholarships and other social investment initiatives. “Education is the bedrock for the growth and meaningful development of any country. It is also a process of developing the child’s moral, physical, emotional and intellectual wellbeing. Dufil believes strongly in this assertion and will continue to play its part.” The Desk Officer, Debate, Quiz and Competition of the Rivers State Universal Education Board, Mrs. Susan Ejiohuo, praised Dufil for the scholarships, and urged other companies and organisations to emulate the gesture to complement the government’s efforts. She enjoined parents to ensure the funds are well utilised to enhance their wards’ education. Ms. Lebura Favour of UPE Primary School, who responded on behalf of other beneficiaries, thanked Dufil and promised to make the best use of the support.