Chief Executive Officer, Brookehouse School, Lekki, Mrs Ifueko Thomas, has said she plans to partner Eti-Osa Local Government Area to educate public school pupils on child rights law. Speaking at the school’s second graduation and prize giving day last week, Mrs Thomas said she would also work with teachers to achieve the goal. She said: “We have a fantastic relationship with the Eti-Osa Local Government.  We are working with them to work with the public schools in Eti-Osa in terms of training. The last time we held a child rights movement in the schools, we took the child-right campaign to the local government during the Children’s Day. “We educated them that every child has a right to quality education; and so we came to an agreement with Eti-Osa that we would go from school to school ‘the public schools’, to teach  the children what child rights are and work with the teachers to ensure that they are able to meet the right obligations of these children.” Mrs Thomas noted that pupils of Brookehouse already knew the importance of child rights as it is included in the school’s curriculum. “We teach our children that these things are rights that you have.  We don’t teach them to be rude.  It is part of our school curriculum,” she said. She, however, pleaded with the government to ensure that public schools get the same quality that the private schools are getting with a little extra work. Speaking on the graduation, which had as theme:  “Greater Heights”, Mrs Thomas said though the school had only three Primary Six pupils graduating, it was worth celebrating. “We are celebrating the second graduation and we have three boys that are graduating and going to high school. We are just starting; it has not been easy, but we are focused because we believe that we need to raise another generations of Nigerians; we need to raise children with character.  You can see what is happening in the society; you can see the corruption and some people ask, do these people go to school?  They did, but you see education without character is empty. So, at Brookehouse we are raising children that are morally sound apart from raising children that are intellectually sound and they understand citizenship,” she said. One of the graduating pupils, Mobolabo Oyeyiola said of his experience in the school: “It has been pleasant and fulfilling.  Brookehouse has already paved a way for me.