Young candidates who participated in the 2019 general elections at the weekend converged at Abuja under the auspices of Young-stars Development Initiative (YDI), a Pan African Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO). The participants shared experiences and exchanged ideas over their electioneering activities. The event with theme: ‘Deliberating on the challenges encountered by young candidates and their prospects for future elections’, was a melting pot of experiences – the good, the bad, and the ugly. It was a time for successful and ‘unsuccessful’ candidates to compare notes and forge a formidable network for future elections. Executive Director, YDI, Mr. Kingsley Bangwell, said “Young Aspirants Leadership Fellowship (YALF) is a project supported by Ford Foundation and designed to prepare and empower young people to be able to run for office so that we can increase youth political inclusion. “We actually trained about 380 young candidates in the North West, North Central, and North-East of the country. Now that elections are over, we are bringing those young candidates (those who won their elections and those who did not) to come and share their experience and begin to think about next steps in terms of agenda setting for those who won, and for those who didn’t win, in terms of strategy to continue to position themselves to remain relevant because 2023 is just close by. “We trained about 380 young candidates, 23 of them won elections in Seven states – Kebbi, Gombe, Yobe, Katsina, Zamfara, Kogi, and Kaduna. “We saw significant increase in terms of the number of young people that came out to run for office, and the number of them that won elections. “For instance, in Zamfara state, half of the members of state house of Assembly are in the youth category. So, we have seen significant improvement in the number of young people that not just ran for office by won. In Oyo, Plateau states the Speakers are young people. Between 2015 and 2019, we only had one person that was a Speaker – now you are seeing an increase in that number. “It is increasing in terms of number, but what we hope to now see is the quality of their representation.” He further added: “There are different rating of the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) in the just concluded elections, and as an organization, Youngstars have been able to identify some areas. We did a research where young people communicated their concerns about a couple of things. “There was the issue of trust in the way INEC handled collation of results. We also saw in terms of logistics, young people didn’t rank INEC well in terms of managing the Corps members, moving sensitive materials to location. We are seeing the same recurrent issues since 1999; twenty years down the line we are still dealing with sensitive materials arriving late, logistics and welfare for ad hoc staff, collation etc. “We still have a gamut of issues that INEC needs to really deal with. However, it is important to say that we are not where we were in 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011; we are seeing incremental changes but we are saying – for who we are as a nation, we expect a lot more in the quality and outcome of our elections. “After this retreat we are going to be putting together a report capturing a feedback of young people; over a hundred of them have shared their experiences through a survey. Also, over a thousand plus Nigerian youths have done an assessment of the election. We are putting it together to send our own views to INEC in the believe that it will help them in their efforts to improve future elections.” “Towards 2023, it is a continuous process. For instance, the young people coming out of the program who won elections have a network where we continue to engage with them and see how we can continue to provide them with technical support. For those who didn’t win elections, we will continue our engagement with them to sustain their relevance in their community. “From our research we find that most of the candidates who want to run for office come into that space a year to the election; and you are coming to meet veterans who have been there for years building goodwill and relationships. It takes a lot to be able to come in and overwhelm such veterans. “So we advise them that if they have ventured in 2019, they don’t need to rest on their oars; your campaign starts the next day after you didn’t win,” he said. Kingsley also stressed the needs for schools to begin to institutionalise democratic processes in selecting leaders, captains, monitors, and representatives. This way the students are taught civic culture and the rudiments and processes of citizens’ participation in electoral processes. A 33-year-old elected member representing Bunguru West constituency, Zamfara state, Hon. Nasiru Bello Lawal, advised the youth to adopt perseverance in making sure that you pursue what you want. According to him, “I applied perseverance in making sure that in the first place I was nominated as a candidate to represent my party – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP). “I set a target to win the election despite the fact that my state was dominated by the All Progressives Congress (APC). “In pursing those targets I encountered so many blockage and issues to my success – resources, money, godfathers, everything that is considered a material in Nigeria to win an election. What I had was perseverance and commitment. “I came into the race in August 2018 and nominated in September. It wasn’t easy for me as a young candidate contesting elections without money, but you need to believe that you will have to make other things before. “As a young person during my days in the university I made a lot of commitments in seeing that the communities at the grassroots progressed. That is what inspired people to support me and build confidence in myself. I didn’t find it difficult because of funds; the support I got at the community level helped me greatly.” Another elected member of the House of Assembly in Yobe state, Hon. Abdullahi Bazuwa, added that, “For me things were not so hard because I started from the PDP and won my elections in 2015. I later joined the APC. The challenges with the youth is that we come onboard without a plan. Sometimes the elders don’t want to give a space to participate. “My advice to the youth will be that if they can find themselves into the political system, they should remain there no matter how hard – do your best, remain in the political system because your time will come.” Zainab Suleiman from Kano state ran for state house of assembly under New Progressive Movement (NPM) but lost. Speaking to our correspondent she said, “Although I lost the election, but I gained experience. My losing the elections is a plus to me. “Now I have more experience and am getting better. I understand now that my constituency needs certain things, and I don’t have to be in office before I can make a difference in my community – health, education etc. I have registered my NGO to look for the problems in my community and solve them so that people understand that young people coming into the political system are going to bring change.” Some of the major challenges highlighted by the participants in the retreat were issues of – vote buying by political parties and candidates with deep pockets, ‘godfatherism’, fund raising, amongst others.