The Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu (SAN) has charged corps members to take advantage of positive and friendly disposition of the state to serve selflessly. Akeredolu made the charge during the closing ceremony for the 2019 Batch ‘B’ (Stream 1) corps members deployed to the state. According to him “Ondo State is one of the most peaceful and NYSC friendly states in the country where the natives and residents have the better understanding of what NYSC stands for and they will make your stay a comfortable one.” He admonished them to let their conduct and moral rectitude be a source of joy to the entire nation and assures the members of the service corps that his administration will see to the excellent hospitality by the government and the good people of Ondo State. Akeredolu reminded the youth corps members that the orientation course was primarily meant to equip the corps members in order to have a better understanding of the operations of the Scheme. He said that NYSC, in its struggle to ensure national development, has instilled the value of patriotism, integrity, hard work, unity amongst the corps members during the orientation exercise. “Gentlemen corps members, the three weeks orientation course programme that you actively participated in is a level playing ground for all of you to contribute meaningfully to the overall development of this great country as you go to your various places of primary assignment. “I implore you to contribute to the socio-economic and political development of Ondo, the Sunshine State. Strive to put in your best and contribute productively in whatever sector of the economy you might be posted and remember that no effort is too small or much for the development of Ondo State”, he said. The Chief Security Officer of the State who was distinguishably represented by the Deputy Governor, Honourable Agboola Ajayi said categorically that the state will continually ensure that the security and welfare of corps members deployed to the state receives priority attention. “Ondo State is relatively secured. I urge you to be security conscious and shun all negative acts that could tarnish the good image your predecessors have toiled to build over the years”. The event witnessed the valedictory appearance of the outgoing Chairman NYSC Governing Board who doubles as the Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Honourable Saka Yusuf Ogunleye who has been reassigned by the Governor. In his emotion laden remarks, Honorable Ogunleye thanked the NYSC management and the entire corps members for their support and understanding during his tenure. Honourable Ogunleye who is moving to the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure while bidding the corps members farewell, promised to always be around to identify with them at all times. The State Coordinator, Mrs. Grace Akpabio disclosed that out of 2136 corps members registered during the three weeks orientation, 703 have been relocated out to other states due to health and marital reasons. The State Coordinator announced that the corps members have been posted to various places of primary assignment in line with the posting policy of the Federal Government.