The National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) has trained 50 women in refrigerator and air conditioning work, plant and generator repairs, plumbing and pipe fitting, tiling and masonry jobs. The agency under the Ministry of Women Affairs said it has become necessary and important, given the changing world of work. Apart from the female artisans, 786 other women were also trained in various vocational skills like hospitality and tourism studies, fashion design and garment making, cosmetology and beauty therapy, bringing the total number of women trainees to 836.3. Other courses included, interior and out decoration, bread-making and pastry, cake baking and sugar craft, bead and jewellery making, catering, makeup and head gear. The NCWD said that the training program was designed to move women and young girls from the stereotype traditional skills to withstand the growing demand for skilled workforce in the Nigerian construction industry. Director General of the Centre, Barr. Mary Ekpere-Eta said that the artisan programme went through two weeks rigorous training at the centre. Ekpere-Eta said this in Abuja at the combined graduation ceremony of the centre’s vocational skills programme and training. Her words, “On the other hand participants of the Female Artisans programme went through two weeks rigorous training in Refrigerator and Air Conditioning work, Plant & Generator Repairs, Plumbing and Pipe Fitting, and Tiling & Masonry. The Female Artisans programme became very necessary and important giving the changing world of work. “To this end, NCWD designed the training programme to move women and young girls from the stereotype traditional skills to withstand the growing demand for skilled workforce in the Nigerian construction industry. “Specifically, the Female Artisans training was aimed at equipping the beneficiaries in achieving the following: Expose women to attain a breakthrough in a non-traditional trade, empower women in carrying out basic maintenances and installation work and become agents of change in their respective communities.”