The police have arrested five persons in connection with the violent that marred the annual new yam festival popularly known as Odun Oba in Ikere Ekiti headquarter Ikere Local Government area of Ekiti State on Thursday. This followed the shooting and killing of a commercial motorcyclist around the popular Odo Oja roundabout of the community. The Okada man was allegedly hit by bullets during a traditional dancing conducted by the wife of Ogoga of Ikere and the Paramount ruler of the town, Oba Adejimi Adu to herald the commencement of this year Odun Oba festival scheduled for Saturday. According to a police source, the traditional dancing procession was conducted amid shooting, which allegedly led to the stray bullet that hit two motorcylists and one of them died immediately. The incident caused panic in the town as people had to scamper for safety as a result of the severity and sporadic nature of the gunshots. The Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, DSP Caleb Ikechukwu confirmed the arrest of the suspects. “When killing like that happened, once we knew where the shooting allegedly emanated, it is normal for us to make arrest, so it is true. “The offence becomes more severe when you carried prohibited firearms, as it was in this case. The arrest should be expected”. When the incident, which caused commotion in the town, occurred, people thought it was a fight between Ogoga’s supporters and his rival, the Olukere of Ikere, Oba Ganiyu Obasoyin. But speaking on Friday, Oba Obasoyin denied his involvement in the crisis, saying he and his supporters were never involved in the incident. The monarch added that he had already spoken to his people to be calm in spite of the highly provocative shooting in the town on Thursday. “The whole town knew where the shooting emanated from; we are not involved at all. Some people were dancing round the town and shooting when they shot the dead and the injured man. “We are doing our best as leaders to ward off crisis. We are engaging people on the need to embrace peace but some people are jittery. “The issue has nothing to do with Olukere and Ogoga . We are happy that the killers have been arrested. “I appeal to the police to do their job. They should do a just job. They shouldn’t allow the matter to be swept under the carpet”. A member of the Okada riders’ association in the town, Mr. Jide Amos, who was an eyewitness established that the man was killed by stray bullets from the dancers.