Dressed in a black, white and ash checked shirt and black trousers, bearded Bidemi Mojupa, 26, alleged to have murdered his lover inside Corporation Estate, Amuwo Odofin last Tuesday, showed no sign of remorse. His expression while recounting the incident that led to his killing the woman he described as “my prostitute friend,” showed no sobriety for a first-timer, who claimed to have not premeditated killing the woman identified as Christy for denying him sex. Mojupa, a graduate of Mass Communication from Rivers State Polytechnic admitted it was not the first time they would be having “good time,” adding that he dragged her inside the house when she made to leave and then stabbed her on the neck from behind. According to him, he was high on Rohypnol, tranquilizer about 10 times more potent than valium, which he became addicted to while in school where he joined the Vykings cult group. The suspect, who was paraded before reporters at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti in Yaba on Tuesday, said he was under pressure to have sex and felt bad when Christy turned him down. Mojupa said he tried to force her but she refused and insisted on payment before service which led to an altercation between them, which probably alerted the neighbours. The suspect denied being a ritualist, claiming it was the mob justice meted to him that made him admit in the viral video. He said: “She was my prostitute friend. It was not the first time we were meeting. I was high on drugs and under pressure to make love when I went to pick her. We agreed and came my place at 55A Corporation Estate, Amuwo Odofin. “But when I wanted to do it, she refused and said I should pay her first. We started arguing. She walked out and wanted to live but I dragged her back inside and stabbed her on the neck. “It was a kitchen knife I used in stabbing her. She did not see the knife coming. I had earlier used the knife to peel oranges and dropped it on top of the washing machine before I went to pick her. After killing her, I was afraid and wanted to run away. I did not know what to do.”
Asked if he planned to escape and put his uncle in whose house he committed the crime in trouble, Mojupa said no, adding “I would have only escaped for a while.” Asked about the 17 women handbags found in the duplex, Mojupa said they belonged to the owners of the house his uncle took over from. “It is my uncle’s house. When the incident happened he was not around but he is back now. Those bags belong to the former owners of the house. The people my uncle took over the house from. I have never killed anyone and I am not a ritualist. I was high on drugs,” he said. 