President Muhammadu Buhari, has nominated Justice Mohammed Tanko to be confirmed as substantive Chief Justice of the Federation (CJN). Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, read Buhari’s letter of the nomination of Justice Tanko in plenary on Thursday. This is coming about six months after Justice Tanko was appointed CJN in an acting capacity by  Buhari. Buhari formally communicated with the Senate to confirm the nomination of Mohammed Tanko as the substantive CJN. The Bauchi State-born Tanko was appointed Acting CJN on January 25, 2019 following the suspension of erstwhile CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen. Justice Tanko, was until his appointment as acting CJN, the second most ranking Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. Buhari who relied on Section 231, Subsection 1&2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, said sought the confirmation of Justice Tanko as CJN in line with the provisions of the law. According to Section 231, Subsection 1&2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, “The appointment of a person to the office of Chief Justice of Nigeria shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council subject to confirmation of such appointment by the Senate. “The appointment of a person to the office of a Justice of the Supreme Court shall be made by the President on the National Judicial Council subject to confirmation of such appointment by the Senate.” Part of  Buhari’s letter as read by the Senate President said: “I have the honour to forward the nomination of honourable Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed for confirmation as Chief Justice of Nigeria. “It is my hope that this request will receive the usual expeditious cooperation of the distinguished Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Buhari also transmitted a letter asking the Senate to approve the appointment 15 senior special advisers. No names of the nominees for special advisers were attached to the letter. The promise by Lawan that the much expected ministerial list will be ready before the end of the week was not to be. Lawan did not mention the ministerial list. Thursday was the last sitting day of the Senate for the week. The Senate President had on Wednesday, assured Nigerians that the list of ministerial nominees would be submitted by President Buhari before the end of the week. Speaking at plenary, Lawan noted that the Executive was working hard to ensure that a ministerial list was transmitted to the Senate for consideration and approval. 