The Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party, South Africa Chapter, Ekos Akpokabayen, has called on the federal government to intensify its effort in addressing the growing rate of inequalities, and unemployment, saying they have continued to fuel various forms of insecurity across the country. He said this at a press conference to mark the presentation of The African Progress Initiative, the state of the nation and xenophobic attacks in South Africa, held in Lagos. According to him, it is disturbing that we are not growing our economy and over 200 million Nigerians are increasingly fighting for fewer resources and that has given rise to growing tension in the country. “Government must be deliberate in investing the nation’s resources in sectors that will drive the economy and enhance employment opportunities for teeming Nigeria youths,” he said. He also noted that insecurity in the country is because we are competing for what we depend on, but are not producing. There is the danger of the problem escalating as companies keep closing shops. Akpokabayen, who is also the Chief Investment Officer of Ovid Capita, noted that the country’s Gross Domestic Product per Capital income is falling. We are not growing properly and our output is low: hence the fight for resources is on the rise; kidnapping and herdsmen everywhere and this is because we are not growing those resources that would aid good employment. He challenged Nigeria leaders to be patriotic and serve the people with love as that would help move Nigeria forward. He threw his weight behind the need for cultural exchanges programme between Nigerians and South Africa as part of the peace building process between the two countries. According to him, Nigerians abroad face a lot of problems due to stereotype and lack of adequate government support. This has led to xenophobia ad violence against Nigerians, especially in South Africa and Malaysia. He noted that South Africa has a turbulent past and wide gap of inequality in the world and at the same time Nigeria has a lot of cultural norm, and social norms that are quite different from South Africa and when these clash, it brings tension and hatred between the different nationals, thus leading to violence.