The founder of the Priceless Precious Art Foundation, Precious Nnnena Enyinwa has urged Nigerians to promote dialogue through visual art. According to her, art has the power to heal and unite people. She made the submission at a three-day free training workshop organised by Priceless Precious Art Foundation in collaboration with Tots and Teensy Creative Art Centre for less-privileged childre. Tagged: Art as a healing to special children, the event empowered children with special needs. It was held at the Rose Rehabilitation Center, Sabo-Oniba, Ojo, Lagos. According to the Enyinwa, the event was held “primarily to empower, inspire, re-orientate and heal the kids spiritually, socially, emotionally and physically”. It started with face painting, which was carried out by volunteers — Goodwill Uchenna Enyinwa and Victory Obinma Ikechukwu. The workshop engaged the children in painting techniques and printing methods. The kids were actively involved in the exercise. During the exercise, a boy named Chinoso was particularly very active despite his mobility impairment. In fact, he was more active than many in the painting exercise. However, it was quite challenging for him at first but eventually he was able to execute his print using the back of his hand to do so. There were other activities such as mural painting, tie and dye session with the kids, production of various designs such as marbling method, spiral, circling, pleating methods, folding and many more. On the final day, a colourful mural painting was launched at the rehabilitation center is to help improve the children’s self-esteem and restore normal functions to their lives. Ultimately, the exercise assisted the children express themselves visually and the resulting artwork helped them to understand their emotional conflicts and also develop their social skills. It was not all about creation of artworks as the foundation also donated beverages, toiletries, clothes and other materials to the children. To bring some smiles to the faces of the children, Miss Enyinwa had some wonderful time with the children as she took to the floor for exciting dancing session with them. Enyinwa, said: “As a non-profit, we are out to encourage Nigerians to promote dialogue through visual art. It has the power to empower and inspire children and youths, especially those with special needs. This is why our foundation focuses on those who are socially and economically deprived of mainstream services and support, such as street children, children living with disabilities and hard-to-reach rural population .”