ABIDEMI: My name is Abi demi, I want to inform you that my pension issues have been resolved and I have been paid by Crusader Pension. I thank The Nation newspaper and PenCom for their interventions. THE NATION is happy that your pension issues have been resolved. Do watch out for the newspaper publication every Wednesday for pension news. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff of Yaba LCDA. I have been with Stanbic IBTC PFA since its inception. But just this month my pension fund was transferred to Leadway PFA without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic IBTC as pension manager. STANBIC IBTC: Further to our response below, please note that in line with the first PIN rule, as stipulated by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the first Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Personal Identification Number (PIN) obtained by an RSA holder should be maintained. Based on the above, the first PIN generated for Mr. Abdulsalam by PenCom is with LeadWay Pension, while ours is the second PIN. Consequently, his contributions were transferred to his valid Pin with LeadWay as approved by PenCom while his second and invalid PIN was invalidated on our records. Please note that Mr. Abdulsalam can choose to transfer back to us once the Transfer Window is declared open by PenCom.  MRS OKOROAFOR: I am Mrs Okoroafor and my late husband Mr Okoroafor passed on June 22, 2013. I am his next of kin. His PFA is Stanbic IBTC pension. I have done everything possible to collect his benefits in the last 5 years since his death. His last work place is the Nigeria Immigration Service headquarters Abuja. Kindly help. THE NATION will intervene by sending your complaint to Stanbic IBTC Pension and PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. JOEL: I am a former employee of a Federal Government agency. I want to know if it is possible to change my PFA from (Anonymous) to another one. I have been out of employment since 2013, I have over N2m as my contributory pension. I want to change my PFA because I’m not satisfied with my current PFA. Is it possible to change and move my pension fund to another in my current situation? Thanks. PENCOM: Section 13 of the PRA 2014 allows an RSA holder to change his/her PFA not more than once in a year without giving any reason. The Commission is currently in the process of opening a transfer window to enable contributors’ move from one PFA to another. ONYAKA: Sir, does First Pension Limited still exist as Pension Fund Manager? PENCOM: Yes. They are known as First Guarantee Pension Limited. Their contact details are as follows: Irorun Plaza, No. 65, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos,http://www.firstguaranteepension.com  