Attritions among oil prospecting companies and their host communities are commonplace in Akwa Ibom State. But an indigenous oil company, Oriental Energy Resources, has decided to bring succour to those indigenous to Mbo Local Government Area. A total of 4, 634 patients benefited from free medical programme during which various ailments were treated, including 33 who underwent eye surgery and over 100 patients who received eyeglasses, expectant mothers were given antenatal kits. School children and their teachers also received hygiene sets. The Chairman, Effiat Council of Chiefs praised the firm for “saving the lives of the people. In fact, this is not the first time they are doing this”. A 73-year-old Sylvanus Bassey whose sight was restored during the free eye surgery beamed with smiles as he said the initiative has positively affected the lives of residents of the communities who never dreamt of accessing such free and quality medical facility. He praised the firm for the gesture. While pouring encomiums on the company, a beneficiary from Enwang, Emmanuel Enukit, enjoined others to take a cue from the oil firm, appealing to the firm to consider carrying out the programme twice in a year considering the fact that health is wealth. A member of the Community Relations Committee (CRC), Mfon Henry was excited over the programme. He was particular abaout the eye surgery programme which he said has gone a long way towards restoring the sights of the people who couldn’t afford the cost of surgery in government or privately-own hospitals. However, Henry would want the firm to increase the budgetary allocation of the yearly programme so that more patients will benefit from it. He commended the firm for having a good working relationship with the host communities and the relevant stakeholders. “It is commendable and I thank God for the organisation. They have tried so much so that I am equally a beneficiary of the programme. Where would I have gotten the money to carry out the surgical operation which has been done free here? ‘’ Deputy Manager, Community Relations, Anslem Okere, said: “The free medical exercise is part of our corporate social responsibilities to ensure a healthy populace in our host communities. We take host communities as major stakeholders in our operations.  We have done the free medical outreach on several occasions and the turnout has always been very tremendous. “More importantly, this year, we added the free eye surgery because the people demanded we incorporate it in the programme. We had to ensure that their demand was met and they have so much appreciated the gesture. “Apart from the free medical outreach, we have also embarked on other social investments including scholarships, skill acquisition centre at Enwang, 100 Oriental units at Enwang and teachers’ quarters at Effiat, among others.” Similarly, Community Relations Officer, Greg Okpo, who is indigenous to the area, said the exercise has brought joy to his people. “My people are happy because of the free surgery. This kind of surgery costs a lot of money in some hospitals and that is why they are so elated because many of them are indigent and cannot afford the cost. “So far, the company has shown a cordial relationship with the people and they are appealing for more of this kind of goodwill,” he said. The Chairman of Mbo Local Government Area, Asukwo Eyo, who declared the programme open, praised the oil firm for the exercise, which he said would go a long way in meeting the health needs of the people and complement government’s efforts at providing comprehensive health care delivery for the citizens. The council chief said: “Health is wealth as the saying goes. Therefore, this exercise is, indeed, a welcome development. We are happy with the organisation for this gesture. The people of Mbo are happy for having access to this comprehensive health care delivery from the firm and we urge it to continue in that stead because government alone cannot meet the needs of the citizens. I urge other firms to take a cue from this company.” The Managing Director, Faith Optical and Medical Services Limited, Dr. David Ehimhen, said need assessment led to the inclusion of eye surgery in this year’s outreach, describing the week-long free health care exercise as very successful. He thanked members of Mbo and Effiat CRC as well as other community leaders for their co-operation. It was gathered that the firm has carried out many social investments in the oil-rich area which include 100 units of housing estate, skill acquisition centre, teachers’ quarter and yearly scholarship scheme for indigent students in tertiary institutions, among others. “Nobody expected the accomplishments of the company within short a time in the area. Other companies have been exploring here for 20 years, yet there is nothing to show for their presence here. But Oriental is a different kettle of fish. It has set a new standard for local content and we are grateful”, said a community leader, Chief Eyo Robin, a beneficiary of pterygium surgery. Residents of the oil-producing communities want other marginal and major oil companies operating in the area to take a cue from Oriental. The consensus is that the company has become a benchmark for oil firms in the area. The challenge for the other companies is to raise the bar. They stated that the firm is a good case study from which stakeholders can pick valuable lessons. And one of the vital lessons is for the industry operators to ensure their impacts are felt positively by the host communities.