New Executive of the Lagos State University Alumni Association (LASU),has taken the oath to pilot the affairs of the association for the next three years. The new executive was inaugurated on Tuesday last week at the university’s old Senate chamber, with the charge to ensure it plays its part in complementing the institution’s efforts towards greatness. The inauguration follows the election of the association earlier held on June Saturday 22, at the International Conference Abuja. Vice Chancellor of LASU Prof Lanre Adigun Fagbohun, assured that the 46-year-old institution is ready to partner with the alumni so the two parties could achieve the loft vision of its founding fathers. Speaking on the theme:I believe we are ready, Fagbohun gave his nod that LASUalumni is living up to its billing in giving back to its alma mater. Nonetheless, he noted that while some old students have the burning passion to give back, the preponderance are simply passive. According to him, alumni usually comprise three groups: the give group’ comprising individuals with passion to contribute to their old school; the ‘take group’ who are simply looking for what to profit by association with the alumni,; as well as the social symbol’ group who are interested in organising and attending members’ social activities beyond their institutions. Lauding the executives of the Alumni for their determination to add value to the university, Fagbohun charged the new executive not to rest on their oars, but set achievable targets. Said Fagbohun: “You must set your plan of action, draw a timeline, forget your differences and focus on your assignment. “Have a clear vision that the work must not fail, respect yourself and offices and you will not fail.” The association’s chairman, Board of Trustees Mr FataiOlatejuSonoiki, said the inauguration is a compulsory ritual which must not be ignored, adding that such amounts to an ‘aberration’ “This inauguration is in line with the dictates of the university’s founding fathers; and we are here to do it the way the university wants it done,” he said. Sonoiki said, as usual, alumni associations are not for every Dick and Harry; but individuals desirous of seeing their institutions attain enviable standard. Sonoiki challenged the executives to be determined to go extra miles in committing their time, money and other resources in addition to the fund that would be generated from other donors towards the development of their alma mater. In his acceptance speech, re-elected President of the alumni Maj-Gen. Cecil Esekhaigbe (rtd),promised full support of the alumni to the university and its conglomerate. Esekhaigbe is also hopeful of the executive delivering on their promises based on the calibre of individuals involved. He said: “To whom much is given, much is expected. The best is expected of us and mobilisation is very key to harnessing all our resources. “I call on all LASU Alumni to collaborate with us to re-strategise, toward meeting our demands. The high point of the event was the official swearing in of the new executive, conducted by the LASU Deputy Registrar, (Legal) Mrs Olajumoke Boyejo. Other members include Morrison Quarkers (SAN, vice 1); Prof OlusolaOladipupo(vice 2); Mr Olawale Anthony, (national general-secretary); Dupe Adefolarin, (treasurer); John Akingbade, (financial secretary); OlusolaOdeja, (social secretary); and Bayo Ayo(legal adviser). Others are: AdenikeFajembola(internal auditor); AdemolaAdeoye(publicity secretary); DayoFadesire(organising secretary); AdemolaOloyede(asst. gen. secretary); JustinaBalogun(asst. financial secretary); MoshoodTaiwo(asst. internal auditor); SeunAdesina, (asst. organising secretary); Ralph Nwafor, (ex-officio 1, Nigeria); and TaiwoAjisefini(ex-officio 2, Nigeria).