Dubai never enjoyed enormous oil wealth like Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). But, with its leaders’ remarkable foresight, it deployed proceeds from her moderate oil reserves to build world-class infrastructure that now supports other high growth sectors such as trade, tourism, health, aviation and financial services, among others. These sectors have dislodged oil as the emirate’s economic mainstay. Today, oil contributes less than one per cent to Dubai’s GDP of AED 398.1 billion. Her successful diversification model could be the template for Nigeria to drive her transition to a non-oil economy if she musters the political will. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. It does not take a keen observer to notice the top-notch facilities and the expansive and cosy ambience of Dubai International Airport (DXB). For instance, the airport boasts an advanced Operations Centre that uses real-time information to improve service and efficiency. It also has smart gates that help speed customers through immigration. The airport’s staff are ever ready to assist visitors to Dubai, one of the seven emirates that make up UAE. This is a clear and bold statement of the emirate’s resolve to be a leading international transport and logistics hub and by extension, rule the world of business. Dubai, The Nation learnt, has been investing in expanding and improving its transport and logistics infrastructure. And on the strength of such massive investment, waiting time at DXB reduced significantly by 28 per cent in 2018. The airport also retained its rank as the world’s busiest airport for international traffic, welcoming 90 million passengers in 2018. The favourable ranking was a shot in the arm of the Government of Dubai, as the global metropolitan city has since commenced moves to tighten its grip on the global aviation business. Consequently, Dubai is investing a whopping $36 billion into building a new hub, Al Maktoum International Airport, at Dubai World Central (DWC). The Nation learnt that Al Maktoum International Airport will be built in phases, and is expected to handle over 240 million passengers annually when completed in 2025. It will be the new base for Dubai-based global aviation giant Emirates Airline. The emirate’s strategic investment in transport and logistics is expected to push up aviation’s contribution to GDP from over a quarter to about 44 per cent by 2030. Interestingly, transport and logistics, of which aviation is a key segment, is just one out of other key high growth sectors identified by the Government of Dubai as having immense potential to dislodge oil as its major revenue earner. Others sectors that have been the focus of Dubai’s economic diversification strategy include trade, tourism/hospitality, financial services, and property/real estate, among others. To international development experts, Dubai’s success in leveraging these sectors to emerge as one of the most diversified economies in the world remains a study in strategic and futuristic thinking. The consensus, therefore, is that for Nigeria, which is currently struggling to diversify her economy following the crash in oil prices at the international market, Nigeria can draw strength from Dubai’s experience. The fact that other oil-producing countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region are said to have adopted Dubai’s diversification template lends credence to this new thinking. The GCC is a regional political organisation comprising the energy-rich Gulf monarchies-Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. It is a political and economic alliance of six countries in the Arabian Peninsula. The Nation learnt that within the region and the UAE particularly, Dubai has been the most proactive and consistent in its push for diversification. Those who spoke with this medium in Dubai, last week, attributed this partly to Dubai’s historical commitment to a business-friendly environment, with openness towards foreigners in business and in society in general.  Why diversification became imperative  The slump in global oil price, which started mid-2014, threw not a few oil exporting countries including UAE and Nigeria into confusion. Like a stone thrown into the middle of a river, the ripple impacts of the oil price crash has been felt oil exporting countries’ growth rates, trade figures and public finances. The situation required the urgent implementation of policies and reforms to reduce economic vulnerabilities in the future. Although Dubai is a constituent member of the Federation of UAE along with six other emirates, it does not possess substantial oil reserves like Abu Dhabi, the capital. In fact, Dubai’s oil reserves are limited and production levels are low. This compelled the emirate’s leadership to think outside the box. And it rose to the occasion by marshalling out appropriate policies and reforms backed by the diligent implementation, with measurable delivery timelines. By instituting a business-friendly environment and regulations that support both local and foreign businesses and investors, Dubai is today, a global trade and finance hub. It is also one of the most diversified economies in the world, with oil currently contributing less than one per cent to its GDP. It achieved this enviable status by leveraging the afore-mentioned high growth sectors.  Tourism/hospitality is Dubai’s forte  To a very large extent, Dubai owes its emergence in the global world of business and investment to its vibrant tourism/hospitality sector. The sector symbolizes the success of its bold and carefully implemented economic diversification aimed at opening the floodgate for the inflow of cash into its economy. Currently, tourism contributes 35 per cent of Dubai’s GDP. The city welcomed 14.3 million visitors last year, according to the emirate’s Department of Tourism & Commerce Marketing (Dubai Tourism). It also targets 20 million visitors in 2020, with a corresponding increase in the sector’s GDP contribution to 50 per cent. The expansion of non-stop flights into Dubai and the introduction of visa-on-arrival facilities are said to be partly responsible for the strong growth in international visitors. Dubai’s low crime rate is also a factor. It has one of the world’s lowest crime rates, ranking as the eighth-safest city in the world in 2018, for instance. Despite being a melting pot of over 200 nationalities, with different religious communities residing in the city, security breaches are a rarity in Dubai. Across the length and breadth of the city, the tranquillity, neatness, free flow of traffic and above all, the absence of policemen and other uniformed security personnel, tell a story of a city at peace with itself. Many of the international visitors are attracted by Dubai’s over 60 shopping centres, including the Dubai Mall, the world’s largest shopping centre. Massive investments in real estate also led to the construction of some of the tallest skyscrapers in the world such as the Emirates Towers, the Burj Khalifa, the Palm Islands and the most expensive hotel, the Burj Al Arab. The hospitality sector is also helping to oil the wheel of Dubai’s economy outside oil. According to Dubai Tourism, the number of hotels in Dubai grew by five per cent to reach 709 in the first 11 months of 2018, offering a total of 114, 378 available rooms. Hotel occupancy rate also reached 78 per cent for the same period.  The making of a medical tourism hub  With the projected growth in Dubai’s healthcare market expected to hit revenue of $19.5 billion by 2020, the emirate has positioned itself as an international health tourism hub with scalable growth opportunities. Accordingly, the Dubai Healthcare City (DHCC), which is an economic free zone, is a thriving health and wellness ecosystem with its own regulatory body. It facilitates end-to-end business set-up. The Chief Investment Officer, Dubai Healthcare City Authority (DHCA), the regulator of DHCC, Mr Imran Sheikh, described the DHCC as “Dubai’s first-of-its-kind free zone targeted at healthcare. Speaking with select newsmen from Africa and India in Dubai, last week, he said the creation of the special hub would enable foreign ownership of the business as well as land, while also allowing the repatriation of capital and international talent attraction. It will also minimise the barriers to entry for investors, industry professionals and service providers/businesses alike. Listen to Sheikh: “The hub was designed to be a one-stop-shop system. If I, for example, were to open a clinic today in a free zone in the Healthcare City, I wouldn’t need to go to many government bodies from commercial to the municipal department to open a clinic. “There is no need in collecting permits from at least 7-8 different government bodies. I could get everything – my medical license, commercial license, a medical checkup for the VISA, national ID, – all of them under one umbrella and in one place.” According to him, the advantages of DHCC for investors in healthcare are numerous. For instance, apart from access to a network of over 400 partners, DHCC boasts a thriving healthcare medical education and research ecosystem. Its strategic location and accessibility is also an added advantage. The city is 10-15 minutes drive from Dubai International Airport and just over a 30-minute drive from Al Maktoum International Airport. The free zone also offers 100 per cent ownership for expatriates and UAE nationals, as well as ease of setting up a business. The DHCA investment officer added that setting up a business there is done through Masaar E-Services, the first-of-its-kind e-services system in the UAE that combines clinical and commercial activities, and is integrated with government and non-government agencies. “This one-stop-shop approach for all services gives investors in our target markets a seamless experience along with the benefits of 100 per cent company ownership coupled with DHCC’s initiatives like reduced clinical operating permit fees to facilitate ease of doing business,” Sheikh said. With these incentives, the response by private operators has been amazing. The Director of Investment and Private Partnership, Dubai Health Authority, Dr.Ibtesam Al Bastaki, said Dubai currently leads the way for private sector participation in healthcare in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. According to her, private sector healthcare providers in Dubai have contributed to developing a strong health ecosystem. They account for over 79 per cent of the utilisation for outpatient services, and over 74 per cent of inpatient services,” Al Bastaki said. She stated that this was in line with the vision of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, to position the city as an international tourism hub. According to her, an increase in demand for quality health services was as a result of Dubai’s rapid urban development, population growth and an influx of medical tourists. These, she said, offer a big opportunity for private sector providers and investors in the health sector. The Nation learnt that many of the world’s largest hospitals and specialized centres have invested in Dubai’s healthcare sector after realizing the city’s unique investment climate, which provides irresistible investment incentives in the healthcare sector.  Free zones boost trade, investment  Dubai prides itself on the efficiency and attractive nature of its industry-specific free zones. At the last count, over 30 attractive free zones are offering various value-added services to existing and prospective start-ups and companies. The Marketing and Corporate Communications Director, Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry (DCCI), Mr Rami Halawani, said the free zones cover sectors such as healthcare and science, higher education, art and design, banking and finance, trading, manufacturing, etc. According to him, the zones permit 100 per cent foreign ownership and provide legislation and regulatory frameworks specifically designed to attract inward investment. They also provide simple, cost-effective and efficient business setup processes, enabling discerning investors and businesses to hit the ground running. Halawani said the specialised free zones have played a crucial role in attracting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to Dubai by providing world-class infrastructure and other attractive advantages such as ease of doing business, as well as smart solutions that attract international investors looking to establish their regional presence in Dubai. Indeed, Dubai’s excellent logistics facilities and world-class infrastructure, Ease of Doing Business (EoDB), strategic geographic location and forward-looking government and policies, among others, are said to have earned the city its pride of place as the preferred global investment destination. The city’s deliberate policy of encouraging a business-friendly environment contributed largely to earning the UAE its ranking as the 11th globally in World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Rankings 2018. She also ranked first regionally, even as it claimed the number five spot globally in the Institute for Management Development (IMD) World Competitiveness Rankings 2019.  The robust financial services sector is a game changer  Although it placed 15th on the Global Financial Centers Index, Dubai has never hidden its intention to become one of the top five financial centres in the world. To demonstrate this resolve, the Chief Business Development Officer, Dubai International Finance Centre (DIFC), Mr Salmaan Jaffrey, said the constitution of the UAE had to be amended to create the Centre. He said DIFC supports a successful ecosystem across sectors including banks and capital markets, insurance and reinsurance, wealth and asset management, corporate offices and professional services, and Financial Technology (FinTech). One of the Centre’s unique selling points is the fact that it is a financial free zone. Jaffrey explained that as a financial free zone, businesses and investors in the DIFC enjoy legal, economic and tax advantages, including zero tax rate on profits, zero personal income tax, 100 per cent foreign ownership, and no restriction on capital repatriation. Operators, he added, also enjoy a regulatory framework modelled on internationally accepted standards. An international justice system also ensures that international standards of justice are applied within the Centre. DIFC’s large pool of world-class human capital includes a concentration of financial expertise and a cluster of highly respected international universities at the DIFC Academy. The Centre also continues to attract top talent by being a preferred place to work, with new initiatives to support this such as the DIFC Employee Workplace Savings Scheme (DEWS  Can Dubai’s model work for Nigeria?  Though a global crisis, the crash in oil prices took a debilitating toll on the Nigerian economy. While Africa’s largest and most populous economy evidently has moiré oil resources than Dubai, endemic corruption and mismanagement by successive administrations have hindered the nation from applying her enormous oil wealth to provide infrastructure and diversify the economy. Not a few industry experts and analysts believe that the financial haemorrhage currently plaguing Nigeria was self-inflicted. According to them, the country walked into an economic cul-de-sac because of corrupt and inept leadership. They said successive administrations failed to save for the rainy day by not being prudent in managing the revenues that accrued from crude oil exports when the prices were high. For instance, a Lagos-based lawyer and analyst, Obiora Akabogu, said such failure underscored the leadership deficit that has continued to hold down the nation’s economic growth and development. He told The Nation that since the discovery of oil in commercial quantity in 1956, successive governments have failed to invest oil revenue windfall to close the huge infrastructure gap and also diversify the economy. He, however, said Nigeria can draw strength from Dubai’s successful of diversification model if the President Muhammadu Buhari administration can pluck up the necessary political will to change the narrative. According to him, what is a need at this time is visionary leadership in the mould of Dubai’s, adding that carefully considered policies designed to create a business-friendly environment would suffice. To begin with, the lawyer said Nigeria must walk the talk on diversification by addressing the nation’s huge infrastructure gap especially the provision of stable and reliable electricity, efficient road and rail transport system, and stepping up the ease of doing business initiatives.