An Ebute-Meta Magistrates Court in Lagos on Tuesday said it is yet to receive the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP)’s advice on the murder charge filed by the police against a househelp, Joseph Ogbu. Magistrate O. A. Olagbende adjourned further proceedings till October 24, or for 86 days. She gave the long adjournment because the court will be on vacation between August and September. Magistrate O. A. Olagbende noted that the adjournment should have been for another 30 days. She, however, observed that depending on the DPP’s report, the Lagos State Government could take over the case and transfer it to the high court during the adjournment period. The court remanded Ogbu, 22, in Ikoyi Prison on June 27, following his arraignment by the police on a temporary three-count charge of murder and stealing. He was suspected of murdering his 89-year-old employer, Adejoke John, and her 36-year-old daughter, Oreoluwa John, on June 19, just two days after he was employed. The State Criminal Investigation Department (SCIID), Yaba, Lagos alleged that Ogbu stabbed Oreoluwa to death after she turned down his demand for N4,000 on the second day of his employment. He, afterwards, strangled Mrs Adejoke John. Police counsel, O. W. Ologun said the defendant committed the offences on June 19, at about 10pm, at his employer’s No. 4, Ogunlana Drive, Surulere, Lagos home. He also said the defendant stole his employer’s Toyota Camry car, Gionee, Itel and Nokia phones, a power bank, a pair of scissors, two cutlasses, an LG Plasma television set and a handbag containing clothes and towels. According to him, murder contravenes Sections 223 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011, while stealing offends Section 287 of the same law. Ogbu was not represented by a counsel. An Investigative Police Officer (IPO), who did not identify himself by name, also narrated how Ogbu allegedly killed the women. He said: “On June 18 2019, the deceased employed him as her househelp. On the 19th – the following day – he accosted her that he needed N4,000. The daughter of the deceased now said ‘When did you come that you are already demanding money?’ That’s where he had an issue with the daughter and he stabbed her several times in the stomach following which she fell and died. The mother was inside her room hearing them. The daughter was saying ‘Mummy! Mummy! Joseph has killed me! Joseph has killed me!’ As she (the mother) tried to come out, he grabbed hold of the old woman of 89 years and strangled her to death around 9pm. He was there until around 2am. He then took the key of the deceased’s car, opened the gate and drove out. He had earlier removed the plasma from the wall on the parlour and put it in the car along with other items.” He said the defendant was caught by security men on the street as he tried to drive off.