Former Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Usman Jibril has joined the list of governorship aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in Kogi state. He said, he was on a rescue mission to redeem the state from maladministration and poverty. The aspirant who is among the 20 aspirants who wrote to the party rejecting the indirect primary approved by the National Working Committee said sovereignty lies with the people. He explained that President Muhammadu Buhari subjected himself to direct primary while seeking reelection. He told reporters after collecting the nomination and expression of interest form at the National Secretariat that direct primary was the new trend, adding that Kogi state must not be left behind. Jibril was received the nomination and expression of interest form from the National Organising Secretary, Emma Ibediro, after paying the mandatory N22.5 million. He said poverty rate in the state was growing and require an experienced person to reposition the state and put it on the part of growth and development. He lamented that civil servants in the state have continuously been undergoing verification with payment of salaries leading to a Permanent Secretary in the state riding Okada to work daily. He promised to build a state on the principle of justice, saying Kogi state at the moment needs a governor with vision who has the experience and is in tune with the reality of the moment and redesign the structure of tomorrow. The former Naval Chief said: “There is the urgent need for change in Kogi state. We can not continue this way as it has been in the last three and half years. Things have to change and we have to salvage our dear state. We have to rescue Kogi from the  menace. Kogi state is facing serious challenge. “Times like this demand men of vision, experience, courage and political will to make things different. Men who can see challenges and who are prepared to confront the challenges. There are challenges in Kogi state and we have to confront these challenges until Kogi state is rescued. “At the moment and in the last few years, our state has degenerated rapidly. Leadership has failed completely, development has come to a stand still, infrastructure and basic social amenities have broken down completely while government has failed in its obligations to the people. He added: “Salaries, allowances, gratuity and pension remained unpaid and sometimes paid in percentage and now in arrears of between six and thirty months  in some cases. Yet, the state governor tells the whole world that this state government is not indebted to workers. People are dying everyday as a result of non payment not salaries. “Over 40 present of the work force has been laid off and yet the state still can’t pay salaries and the pensioners are not spared and are dying every day. Promotion has stagnated and this must not be allowed to continue. Civil servants in my state are now beggers to the extent that a permanent secretary rides okada to work every day. Local government workers are protesting every day because of accumulated arrears. “The disturbing state of our economy is a pointer to the fact that our state is on the dark lane. Kogi state is under siege and is presently on life support. We need the required drug to cure the illness inflicted by the present governor. The poverty index in our state is alarm inspite of our abundant resources. “The political, social and economic of the people of Kogi state has dwindled and worsened in the last few years. Kogi state need a new story. A better story indeed. Things can not continue like this because enough is enough. We must stop this narrative for better. “To pull Kogi from the pit calls for an experienced, purposeful person who can provide an inspiring leadership. I an certain that the current narrative is not our destiny. I spite of this leadership failure, there is light at the end of the tunnel under a purposeful, visionary and competent leadership which I intend to provide.”