Boluwatife Oyesola is outgoing student union president at the University of Bolton and also the first Black African female to hold the position. She graduated with a first class honours in Accountancy recently. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about her passion and the things that keep her going. Tell us about life in the UK. How did you emerge as a student leader? Life here is quite different compared to the way we have in Nigeria, sometimes better, but at other times not as good. I went to university at the age of 16, which is something very uncommon in the UK. I graduated with a first class honors in Accountancy when I became 20. In the final year of my course, I ran for the office of the student union president contesting against two people, including the then president.  I have always been involved in the student movement and I am one for positive change. Just before this, I was a course representative and a student ambassador for my university, as well as being a Greater Manchester student ambassador. Before taking on the role, I wanted to make sure that I could make a difference; I went out to speak to more students and asked them what they wanted and centered my pledges around what students really wanted. This gave birth to my campaign about positive change and my slogan was Bolu4positive change. My pledges were called (SEEEF) Student Engagement Employability Enhancement Facilitation of social amenities to ease student life. The students really wanted all that, as I was elected as the SU president. Tell us about some of the things you have done. What was it like at the beginning? Being the SU president here is unlike the SUG in Nigeria; it’s a full time job. You are not allowed to study whilst you are in the role. Basically, your whole job is about fulfilling your pledges and running an organisation. In the beginning, it was quite slow.  I am the first ever black female president and the youngest. Most graduates start from the bottom of the organisation but I had to run a whole organisation. Someone once said being a student union president is the best graduate job you can ever have. I have managed to fulfil all of my pledges and I thank God. I organised international students events, and it included future leaders residential where students could work on their skills such as teamwork, leadership, resilience, listening, questioning, decision making and communication. I also launched a relaxation space for students, where they could get away from all the craziness and actually just chill and play games, hold society meetings and much more. During my tenure, we also got the university to provide more car park spaces. We advocated for microwaves and kettles in all the campuses and for extra buses to take students around campus and to their accommodation. In addition, I became one of the founders of the Greater Manchester Student Assembly. We went on and advocated for increase in alumni access at the university and inputted on how this could be achieved. That was not all. We organised activities around the black history month as well as placed suggestions boxes around campus for students to give suggestions and express their opinion without being identified. We also advocated for the installation of new laptops and books in the library. The tenure was also engaged in the consultation process and we gave constructive ideas and comments on the improvement of mental health for students in the university. During the period, we worked closely with the careers and the office of the vice chancellor on ways in which employment could be improved for students and alumni alike. It was exciting sitting and representing students in the highest governing body in the university. Hosted the Student Led Teaching Awards. What motivates and inspires you? That’s a very good question; the thing is that I am intrinsically motivated. I do not need external factors to do what I do. I know what I want and I go for it. My willingness to make a positive change keeps me going. The knowledge of the fact that if I want to see changes in the world and make it a better place, it has to start with me and the decisions I make on a daily basis. The things that come with making the world a better place is just a bonus. People inspire me, as cliche as that sounds; particularly my family. They inspire me to do better, I am the first child. So, setting a good example to my siblings is really important to me. In addition, seeing how hard my parents work inspires me to want to do better. Tell us about some of the memorable moments My most memorable moment till date is walking on my graduation stage to receive my first class honours degree. I remember that day so vividly; I was wearing an African attire, I catwalked and actually danced on the stage just so I could live in the moment more. I’ve been looking forward to that day, my whole life and when it finally came, I owned the moment. And being announced the student union president; the wait was exhausting knowing what and who I was up against. When my vote was announced and I was declared the president-elect, I remember kneeling down and saying ‘thank you God’ because the doubt and second guessing was taking a toll on me. But I had my family and friends who encouraged me. What some of the challenges encountered? In my role, the unending challenge is the difficulty in pleasing everyone. Our student body is made up of so many types of student who sometimes want different things. We’ve got matured students who come in to study, go to work and go take care of their family. There are also young students who want the fun, the rush and the whole university experience and also international students who like to explore and interact. However, they all have one thing in common; they want value for money. As the president, you can’t really focus on one thing or a group – you are one for all. So, I had to work extra hard to evaluate what they all wanted and make a decision on how best to deliver their wants, which I feel I have been able to do. Furthermore, I have learnt very quickly that there is always going to be one person who does not acknowledge your achievements. What are some of the other things that occupy your time? I really love cooking and reading, chill with my friends sometimes. I go to church and visit historical places. I make hair for my friends sometimes. I talk to my family all the time and can be on the phone forever talking to each one of them, trying to catch up with the things going on in their lives. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? Jesus and my parents have the greatest influence in my life. That one was very easy. In what ways has this changed your lifestyle? I’d say finishing off my role, not a lot has changed. I am still very enthusiastic, but I have really grown in this role. When I started, I had a lot of plans and uncertainties on how best to achieve my pledges into the role, but now I have more clarity and the know-how of how to accomplish a set goal. I have become more empathetic, confident and mature. My lifestyle has not really changed just that I’ve become more relaxed and private. I want to be by myself more now and just breathe; 85% of my time is spent with people. Anytime I get a me-time, I try to stay in the moment and enjoy my own company as much as I can. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in Nigeria? I would like to see better leadership and more opportunities for the youths. The Nigerian government has a lot to do but so do the people. Bribery and corruption is killing us on a daily basis and it’s everywhere in Nigeria. You can hardly see a person willing to do something for the sake of doing it without wanting something back in return. I am not saying it doesn’t happen here in the UK, just that this behavior is rampant in Nigeria. I would also like the youths breaking boundaries in a positive way and creating opportunities for themselves by being proactive. What are some of the lessons that you have learnt? Always put God first and trust him more. You only live once and very important that I’m doing better than l think and that I am exactly where God wants me to be.