The United Nations Development Programme UNDP yesterday said all arrangements have been concluded to begin its stabilization and development programmes in the northeast. It, however, added that it would need the support of the Nigerian Army to embark on the multi-billion naira projects targeted at rebuilding communities and public institutions destroyed by the Boko Haram terrorists. The Resident Representative Designate for UNDP in Nigeria, Mr. Mohammed Yahya stated this in Abuja during a visit to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai at Army headquarters. He said, “We are about to embark on the programme with regards to the stabilization of the North East. I feel I have to come to see the Army Chief and to inform him because the Army has done a lot in tackling the insurgency and unless the Army gives us the support to do our work, it will be very difficult”. Mr. Yahya who described the support of the army as crucial for the stabilization programme to succeed, said the programme entailed re-establishment of livelihood in deserted communities, provision of critical infrastructure and ensuring enabling environment for the rule of law. He said there would be a need for other critical stakeholders in the stabilization efforts to key into the speed and pace of work that would be embarked upon by the  UNDP. “The programme would also involve reconstruction of towns and communities. UNDP really needs the Nigerian Army’s support for its personnel to access difficult communities”, Mr. Yahya added. In his remarks the COAS assured the UNDP representative that the Nigerian Army will give the UN all the support it requires for the stabilization programme to succeed. Lt. Gen Buratai said the Army is ready to support the UNDP and other NGOs by securing the northeast for development programmes to begin in earnest. He said the military had already commenced its own stabilization and reconstruction programmes in certain areas and was working seamlessly with several NGOs in this regard. Some of the senior officers present during the visit were the Chief of Policy and Plans, Major General Ali Nani, Chief of Training and Operations, Major General Lamidi Adeosun, Chief of Logistics, Major General Enobong Udoh, Chief of Military Intelligence, Major General SA Adebayo, Chief of Administration, Major General Ishiaku, and the Chief of Civil-Military Affair, Major General Shehu Mohammed . 