Old and current students of the Department of Mass Communication, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria will on Saturday, July 13, 2019 honour their former Head of Department, Prof. Suleiman Salau who is retiring from the service of the institution. One of the former students and lecturers with the department, Dr. Ibrahim Jimoh, told The Nation that a dinner has been arranged in honour of Prof. Salau who is the first Professor of Mass Communication in the University. Jimoh, who is chairman of the planning committee, said during the dinner which is expected to be attended by senior academics in the university and his former students, a book of reading complied by the former students will be unveiled. The book titled “Mass Media in Nigeria: Research, Theories and Practice” is edited by Akeem Mojisola Adeyanju, Ibrahim Jimoh and Hashim Mohammad Suleiman, all former students of Prof. Salau. While Adeyanju is currently  a Senior Research fellow at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies where he also work as Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Communication, Dr. Ibrahim and Suleiman are both senior lecturers  in the Mass Communication department of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Dr Jimoh said: “In recognition of his contribution to the Department of Mass Communication, ABU, Zaria where he trained and touched many lives, former and current students of Prof Suleiman Salau will be having a dinner on the 13th of July in ABU to unveil a book written to honour Prof Salau. “The book, ‘Mass Media in Nigeria: Research, Theories and Practice’, is 733 pages double peer reviwed with about 35 chapters from contributors covering all aspects of Mass Communication in Nigeria. The contributors include Professors and scholars from every region of the country. “Indeed, very few are like  Prof Salau who has touched so many lives and this has given him the position of a father in the lives of many, thus honouring with a book is the least we can do to show him appreciation. “A man who has spent all his life since joining ABU in the 70s nurturing men and women and overseeing a department to what it is today, is worth celebrating.” Prof. Salau midwifed the establishment of the department in the mid nineties and has graduated several students.