Nigerian women have been advised to cultivate strong savings and investment culture in order to build financial legacies for their children. Wife of the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo gave this advice as the keynote speaker at the fourth series of the FSDH Merchant Bank Roundtable Series in Lagos. Speaking on the theme “Women, Money and Building a Financial Legacy”, Osinbajo said women should focus more on making financial investments and reduce unnecessary consumption in order to achieve stable financial status. She decried the fact that societies like Nigeria celebrate success but despise the processes that lead to it urging women as parents to instill their children with habits that will set them on the path of success in their endeavours. According to her, considering the state of the economy and the challenges of bequeathing trans-generational wealth and legacies, women should be more prudent with resources and avoid excessive display of wealth. She outlined that women’s priorities should be how to build sustainable wealth that will support the family, cater for the children and achieve a befitting financial legacy. “Women must make the right choices for building a lasting legacy for their children,” Osinbajo said. She also stressed the need for them to make informed investment decisions while encouraging women to gain financial education and explore investment opportunities in areas like real estate and the stock market that can generate wealth for them. She further made a strong case for community impact and investment in the poor and underprivileged children and families. Citing her pet project as example, Osinbajo said she had made conscious efforts to invest in less-privileged children through the “Liberty Schools Project” that has seen over 200 children as beneficiaries. She admitted that her pet project had made her to sacrifice several pleasures and luxury items urging wealthy and influential women to join the cause of impacting Nigerians that are indigent, through charity. She also called for legislations that will enforce increase in gender participation in the socio-political activities in the country. 