Enugu State Police Command on Wednesday paraded 33 suspected criminals, who were arrested for crimes within the past one month. The command also recovered 10 rifles, cartridges and ammunition. It also recovered armoured transformer cables and vandalised transformer components, four laptops and charms. Parading the suspects in Enugu, Commissioner Sulaiman Balarabe said the arrest followed intensive and pro-active efforts put up by operatives under the “Operation Puff Adder”. He said the operatives of Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Urban Patrol and Anti-Cultism Squad also assisted in making the arrest and recovery possible in the period under review. The police boss noted that the suspects were involved in crimes ranging from armed robbery to kidnapping, transformer vandalism, cultism, Internet fraud and murder case. “In the period under review from June 17 to date, being July 17; the command has made many successful arrests and recovery leading to the present peace and tranquility the state enjoys. “The operatives of “Operation Puff Adder” have lived up to their bidding within the last one month and have arrested 10 robbery suspects at locations. “The Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad also tracked down and arrested two notorious kidnappers troubling personalities in the state,’’ he said. Balarabe said over 15 cultists were arrested at locations by the Anti-Cultism Squad. According to him, cultists are fond of disturbing peace and business activities in neighborhood. “Today, cultism has taken a dangerous dimension in the state. Cultists now carry out ambush attacks on unsuspecting residents and rob them of their belongings. They go to the extent of killing and robbing on the highway. “The command assures residents that it will fight cultism, transformer vandalism and other petty crimes to a standstill,’’ Balarabe said. He said investigation was still ongoing in some of the cases, adding that the suspects would be arraigned after the investigation. “I appeal to residents, especially our friends in the media, to always avail the police confidential information to nip crime in the bud and rid the state of undesirable elements,” the police commissioner said.