 Governor of Kaduna State,  Mallam  Nasir El-Rufai’s speech at the Northern Youth Summit organised by Northern Hibiscus, an NGO a few days ago, has become a very contentious national discourse. He told his audience that Nigeria is two countries in one. He succinctly elucidated his points in these words: ”Looking at the statistics, Nigeria appears to be a middle income country. But, if we segregate those statistics across states and zones, you will see that, in terms of human development indicators, Nigeria consists of two countries; there is a backward, less educated and unhealthy northern Nigeria, and a developing, largely educated and healthy southern Nigeria”. He went ahead to compare Northern Nigeria to war-torn Afghanistan. He mentioned the social ills bedeviling the North like drug abuse, gender violence, banditry, kidnapping, family breakdown and terrorism. The governor swiftly moved to a self-adulating rhetoric telling his audience that the North still feeds the nation, has more honest people than other parts of Nigeria, has no convicted 419ners and‘Yahoo’ criminals, etc. He celebrated Aliko Dangote, the richest Nigerian who is a Northerner, then he capped his somewhat celebratory tone by telling the youths that the North was proud of its demographic advantage that gives them a powerful negotiating tool in the Nigerian political space. We are worried about this disturbingly divisive rhetoric from the governor who had in his book described himself as, “The Accidental Public Servant” that had called on the next generation to pull Nigeria  from the brink. The governor had spent most of his life as a public servant. He was the Director- General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises(BPE), then  Minister of the Federal Capital Territory for four years and he is governor of Kaduna State for a second term. It smacks of hypocrisy for the governor that has not been walking his talk as a Northern elite to mount the podium and begin to speak from both sides of the mouth at this very volatile period in the nation’s history, given the high sense of mistrust and insecurity in the country. To begin to draw lines of what he assumes are the development gaps between the North and South is not only a disservice to the whole country in search of unity but a loud voice of self-indictment of the past and present leadership of the Northern states and even the Federal Government that has been in the hands of the Northerners for more than 80% of the years since independence in 1960.  While his observations about the poverty and illiteracy levels in the North are factual, his almost El-dorado painting of the South is farcical given the development indices of a south that is almost prostrate with poverty. We fail to align the speech of the governor with what has become of his own Kaduna State since 2015. If charity must begin at home, we would have expected he leads the way in fostering unity, justice and economic prosperity in Kaduna. The often deadly conflict along Southern/Northern, Muslims/Christian indigenes have exacerbated since he became governor, inching towards a Hobbesian level. We believe that the governor would have had less to say as his governance style, if admirable, would have sent a more poignant message to the youths he was addressing. However, we equally acknowledge the fact that the governor realised his and other Northern political elites’ place in history as having failed the people. He tried to encourage the youths who, according to him, makes up to 80% of the Northern population as owning the future and not ‘Dinosaurs’ like him. He proposed to work together with the other 18 governors to develop the North and work towards its unity. We equally wish to point out to the governor that leadership imbues one with certain powers that make it very imperative for them to be thoroughly measured in speech, as each word said is capable of inflaming tempers or calming same. Dividing the country into two, given the prevailing circumstances, has the capacity to cause very grievous harm to the country’s unity. The governor must put more effort at redeeming both his image in his own state and galvanising his governor-colleagues and other elites to refocus on developing the region through improved healthcare and education. Bill Gates had invested about $2.8b dollars in those sectors without the requisite improvement. Just like Emir  Lamido Sanusi reiterated at the Second Kaduna Investment Summit in 2017, the rest of the Muslim world has moved on and Northern Nigeria must stop fighting culture and civilisation so as to make progress. There are basic steps that leaders in the North must take to liberate the people in ways that the population is not merely seen as valuable political tools, given what Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso said in 2015 about their having mobilised the almajiris to vote. It’s a disservice to leave the youth population without education and skills for survival only to use them for elections. Sponsoring pilgrims and mass marriages are not productive ventures that can develop any region. Education, health and infrastructure are sorely needed for the teeming population. The governor and other public figures must be visionary enough to pursue national agenda in ways that would benefit every Nigerian as parts of a whole that must find value in our diversity. Words are powerful and must be handled with absolute caution, especially by public figures.