Federal High Court in Lagos has fixed September 30, for hearing in a suit against the University of Lagos, (UNILAG) and two others, over the alleged wrongful seizure of property and rights’ infringement. The applicant in the suit before Justice Mohammed Liman, is Mr Emmanuel Ofoegbu, a Lagos-based lawyer. Joined as respondents are; Dr Yemi Oke, UNILAG, and one Mr Oluwafemi Adetiba. The applicant filed the suit through his counsel Ogedi Ogu, claiming the sum of N50 million against respondents, as compensation for alleged forceful seizure of property of his law office at 366, Murtala Mohammed Way, Yaba. The applicant is asking the court’s declaration as unlawful, the forceful seizure and confiscation of his properties, without a court order, after the respondent demolished the said building that housed his law office. Afoegbu averred that he was not given the opportunity to be heard by any court or tribunal before the said demolition and seizure of his property were carried out. In a supporting affidavit, the applicant claimed that on April 1, he overheard some of his co-tenants saying that the building was billed for demolition by midnight of the same day. The plaintiff said that upon enquiries from the third respondent (Adetiba) who had been the Agent/Attorney of the property, he was told that the building had been sold to one Dr Yemi Oke. He said the third respondent also showed him an anonymous letter written by the first respondent, whom he said had been threatening to demolish the building. The plaintiff alleged that along with other tenants, they wrote to the Vice-Chancellor, Dean of the Law Faculty, as well as the Chairman of the Governing Council of the University, to prevail on the first respondent. The applicant said that he had gone to his office on April 20, only to see hooligans demolishing the entire building and who claimed that they were acting on the instructions of the first respondent. He alleged that the urchins also carted away his belongings from his law office and confiscated many others. He listed the items to include; two modern office tables valued at N500,000, Six swinging chairs and a book rack valued at N600,000, office safe valued N350,000 and Law books valued at N1 Million. Others include; Law reports and Journals valued at N2.5 million, old and new case files of inestimable monetary value, as well as Laptops, stationery and fans all valued at N350, 000. Afoegbu claimed that his dependents were going through untold hardships occasioned by the disruption of his legal practice. He urged the court to uphold his claim. Justice Liman adjourned till September 30.