The Institute of Chartered Secretary and Administration (ICSAN) insists it will not shirk its responsibility as the frontline advocate of the entrenchment of corporate governance. Outgoing President of the Institute Mr Simon Kolawole says ICSAN puts members on their toes towards ensuring compliance with corporate governance which, according to him, helps stabilise investments, and the nation’s economy. Kolawole speaks with ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA as he signs off as ICSAN’s 25th President. What were the challenges you inherited upon assumption? Well, I wouldn’t’ call them challenges, rather these where the things I’d set out to do within the period that I would be president of the institute. I believe that in past years the past presidents and Council had done their own beat. We had issues though, but they were not things I would actually call challenges. Could you mention one or two examples? When I came in as President, one of the issues was the visibility of the institute. We want to increase awareness and let Nigerians know what the institute is all about. Second, the secretariat was not too comfortable for workers and we had to make it more befitting. Of course we had to rebuild the secretariat. We have improved its aesthetics and functionality. Those familiar with this institute would agree with me that things have improved. A lot of renovation has taken place. I said during my investiture that we should be able to ensure that workers operate under a very conducive environment. Third, I’m also of the belief that since ICSAN is knowledge-based, we should be able to disseminate and enrich the body of knowledge in the society. I have a background in publishing and on the strength of that I wanted to leave behind a legacy of publishing. I’m of the view that our ideas and knowledge should be put out there in a form that people can have access to them. So publishing books and journals were one of the things I set out to do. Considering the level of corruption and fraud in government and corporate circles, don’t you think those in corporate governance have let Nigerian down? What I would say is that when people see bad things happen, they wonder what the good people are doing. However, you should also look at the fact that it could have been worse if you didn’t have good people there to stem the tide. It’s almost impossible to eliminate bad actions totally. Sometimes, when we see a lot of report about bad things being detected in an organisation, we fail to realise that it took some (good) people to get that information out through whistle blowing. So the fact that you don’t hear that some things are not happening in certain territories does not mean bad things are not happening there. So corporate governance practitioners have been doing their own beat and I believe we can do a lot more. It’s not something that will happen overnight, it’s gradual. What is ICSAN’s view on the National Code of Corporate Governance recently introduced by the Federal Government? ICSAN is in full support of this initiative! Corporate governance is responsible for the success of any organisation. In ICSAN, we pride ourselves as the front runner and as professionals trained in this area. So we support the national code of corporate governance and its applications to ensure organisations are run and managed properly in the interest of stakeholders. When organisation applies the corporate governance issues, they will automatically thrive; and once organisations thrive, the economy and the nation will thrive. It’s a continuous process. Of course we will have teething problems with regards to its applications. However, just like any law, there will be controversy as to what (corporate governance) the contents will be. People will have diverse opinions on how it is to be executed. The good thing is that a step has been taken (by government) and we believe that this will help improve the corporate governance landscape. Good enough, the steering committee that put together this code has as participants three of our members. That tells you about the experience our members have to handle things such as this. Beyond governments, what role is ICSAN playing to ensure this is more entrenched within corporate bodies? One of the things we are doing is our Corporate Governance Platform, a radio programme through which we are educating people about corporate governance principles and how this particular national code can be applied.  We are making Nigerians understand that it is not a code meant to stifle operations in any organisation, but rather, enhance their values. How would you appraise your administration over the last two years? First, let me say the administration I’ve been privileged to chair over the last two years is not the administration of the president alone but also members of the Council. Overall, I think we have tried our best to take the institute further from the level we met it especially in the facets of publication and knowledge dissemination. For the first time, we had the institute’s journal which is professional in nature. The first edition is already out and we hope it would be continuous. We’ve also improved on the institute’s magazine so as to make it more professional. Before our administration took off, the institute had signed two linkage programmes with two universities-Babcock University in Ilishan-Remo Ogun State and Leeds City University in Ibadan, Oyo State. In the last two years, we’ve been able to sign three others- International University Seme-Podji in the Republic of Benin; Caleb University in Imota, Lagos and Afe Babalola University in Ado-Ekiti.  There are also two others in the pipeline. I therefore believe that my successor and the Council will do much better than what we have done. We were also able to introduce the insurance scheme as well as issuance of identity cards to our members.