Kaduna State Government has applauded Promasidor Nigeria Limited for its career development initiative, Harness Your Dream, which was held for the sixth time recently. A pan-Nigerian project, the corporate social investment project this time took place at Sardauna Memorial College in Kawo New Extension of the state capital. The Permanent Secretary of Kaduna State Ministry of Education, Mrs Nana Kande Bage, who flagged off the state edition of Promasidor Harness Your Dream, described it as “an excellent programme,” while she encouraged the students from six schools to pay attention to the presentations. She called on other corporate organisations to toe the line of Promasidor, particularly in the area of developing and empowering the youths. “Other corporate organisations should follow the example of Promasidor as this kind of initiative will further boost the interest of the students in schooling,” she admonished. “I thank Promasidor for choosing Kaduna State to be part of this programme. I feel highly delighted that Kaduna is the sixth state where this initiative is being held,” the Permanent Secretary further said, as she turned her attention to the students: “I encourage you to make good use of this opportunity. If you allow such opportunity to slip off your hand, you may not get it again. Work hard so that you will excel in future.” Earlier, the Principal of the host school, Nura Hassan Yaro also expressed gratitude to Promasidor for considering his school worthy of hosting the programme. He stated his belief that it would make so much impact on the career choices of the students of the schools selected. Other schools represented at the Kaduna edition of Promasidor Harness Your Dream are: Dalet Girls Secondary School, Kawo; Government Girls Secondary School, Kawo; Government Secondary School, Kawo, Government Secondary School, Badarawa and Dr. Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi Government Secondary School, Hayin-Banki. Addressing the students and other key stakeholders at the event, Promasidor’s Head of Legal and Corporate Communications, Mr Andrew Enahoro said that more states would benefit from the initiative as the company is committed to giving back to the society. 