Labour and Employment Ministers in the ECOWAS region, at a meeting in Abuja, last Monday,  adopted key policy documents on the future of work and decent job for all in the West African region. The two documents: “Directive on Minimum Standards Towards Harmonisation of Labour Laws in the ECOWAS region” and the “ECOWAS Regional Programme for Decent Work (DWRP),” were extensively deliberated, revised, validated and adopted during the two-day meeting. The theme of the meeting: “Strengthening Social Dialogue for the Promotion of Decent Work in the ECOWAS Region”, was to promote decent work for ECOWAS citizens. At the meeting,  ECOWAS Commission President Jean-Claude Kassi Brou said the two documents would be key framework that ECOWAS and member states can apply to achieve the ILO Centenary Declaration for the future of works, adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 108th Session in June in Geneva. He said the policy documents would address the challenges to shaping a fair, inclusive and secure future of work with full, productive and freely chosen employment and decent work for all. He urged the ministers to adopt the documents and all the recommendations therein. He said: “To enable the ECOWAS Commission to put in place, regional mechanisms that facilitate and enhance the social integration of our citizens in our community space and create conditions for a job decent and regulated at member state level without xenophobia and other forms of discrimination.” He pointed out that the presence of the labour ministers at the Abuja meeting was a strong demonstration of their commitment to resolving the critical issues on Labour and Employment in the region. ECOWAS Commission president commended the Nigerian government and Ministry of Labour and Employment Permanent Secretary, Mr. Williams Alo, for hosting a good meeting and warm welcome; while commending the International Labour Organisation (ILO) for the mutual collaboration being enjoyed in their work on labour and employment in the ECOWAS region. Meanwhile, Nigeria has called on ECOWAS member states to show commitment and political will in the implementation of labour policies and programmes in the sub-region. Mr. Alo, in his address, emphasised that the sub-region needed renewed commitment and passion to drive the tenets of Decent Work and other labour policies. He said: “We cannot continue to be paying lip service to issues of labour administration in the sub-region. The time has come for us to make a radical departure from the past if we are to bequeath to future generation an ECOWAS sub-region that prides itself in the attainment of the tenets of decent work.” The Permanent Secretary pledged Nigeria’s continued support to the ECOWAS Commission in its determination to addressing knotty employment and labour issues in the sub-region. Director, ILO Country Office and Liaison Office for ECOWAS, Mr. Dennis Zulu, advised the ministers and the partners to use the opportunity provided by the meeting to ensure that the ECOWAS Social Dialogue Forum, realises its potential and be an effective, efficient and durable mechanics enhancing the quality of work and results in the labour and employment sector in the ECOWAS region. Zulu assured that as tripartite organisation, social dialogue will always be ready to provide technical support for the work. 