Digital banking is where the world is heading. Banks with eye on the future are already taking advantage of the digital space to grow their business and add value to customers. Banks are expected to reinforce their commitment to seamless services and support for the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) financial inclusion project. First Bank of Nigeria Limited has, in its 125 years of operation, migrated to a lender committed to Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) funding, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Banking is getting more interesting by the day. Digital banking, the new route far-sighted lenders are taking to achieve better results for their customers, has brought  speed and efficiency to the industry. Hence, banks with eyes on the future are taking strategic steps to ensure they take advantage of the new information technology that is defining the sector’s successes and reach. This is because the competitive business environment requires intense focus and resources to remain efficient and invest for the future. Financial pundits said it requires resilience and adaptability for an institution in this environment to sustain operation for 125 years and still play big in the industry. FirstBank of Nigeria Limited, which has marked its 125 years of operation has migrated from old analogue lender, to a 21st Century digital bank that meets the needs of its customers. The bank has remained strong, maintaining a healthy capital base and confidence of its customers. Speaking on the bank’s status in the industry, FirstBank’s Chief Executive Officer, Adesola Adeduntan, said despite the regulatory headwinds and business shocks, the fundamentals of the lender have remained very strong with the group’s asset quality. The bank chief said that FirstBank has come a long way. It was opened in 1894 by a shipping magnate, Sir Alfred Jones, as the Bank of British West Africa, with 12,000 British Pounds Sterling as paid-up capital. The name was changed to First Bank  of Nigeria in 1979. The bank marked 100 years of operation in 1994, same year Nigeria won Soccer World Cup. The bank has also produced two Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governors, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and Joseph Sanusi. Adeduntan said the bank has through expanding, due diligence on risk assets targeted towards profitable transactions, deepening of the effectiveness of the middle office through improved credit monitoring, collection support and prompt identification of early warning signs in portfolios and by re-instituting a more conscious risk environment through training, coaching and enforcing stricter sanctions for non-performance, remained ahead of other lenders. According to him, the bank has also focused on loan and remedial management, voluntary reduction of Single Obligor Limit (SOL) and  increased board oversight by significantly raising the bars of credit approvals through the Board Credit Committee to remain viable despite the daunting business environment. The bank chief said building an efficient organisation is at the thrust of the bank’s new strategies and management has reiterated its commitment to driving enhanced profitability through improved revenue generation, cost optimisation and shared services. This, he added, will be achieved by exploring group shared services to optimise spending across subsidiaries and centralised data centres, optimising procurement to implement best practices, tightening budget controls and improving technology leverage and implementing an Enterprise Resource Planning/Management (ERP) framework to eliminate process redundancies. On the future of the lender, he said management recognises that an institution can hardly have an outlook beyond that of its operating environment. “The adverse impact on our loan book and the distortion occasioned by the shocks in the global market place notwithstanding, the silverlining in all of this is that the bank’s fundamentals remain very strong and evergreen. The expanded breath of our service and product offerings through the Holding Company structure is expected to come to the fore at a time when the commercial banking sub-sector is under significant pressure,” he said. According to the bank chief, the challenging macroeconomic environment, the dwindling oil price and the resultant impact in the widening of the funding gap for the government present opportunity for project and infrastructure finance, debt capital raising and financial advisory offered by our Merchant Banking and Asset Management group. “Similarly, the insurance business of the group continues to ramp-up in its growth trajectory, supported by the seamless integration of the acquired general insurance business. All of these are in addition to the effort of the Bank to fully integrate its West African operations to our FBN Bank (UK) Ltd to drive significant growth in trade finance,” he said. According to the lender, following a detailed model incorporating the bank’s future business growth strategy, potential economic shocks and the current banking group capital adequacy ratio of 18 per cent, a healthy 200 basis points buffer to the regulatory minimum capital requirement for systemically important banks which came into effect in June, 2016, there are no immediate plans for any fresh equity raise. The bank said it is  implementing a priority approach towards capital allocation and optimisation. “We are reviewing our dividend pay-out policy by increasing the level of earnings retention thereby reducing dividend pay-out to focus on optimising our balance sheet and retaining a substantial portion of FirstBank’s profit to boost capital position and drive growth,” the bank said. Adeduntan said the lender has over the years built an enduring brand that is immediately recognisable as dynamic, dependable, lasting and innovative. “These unique moments in history, have helped create a global brand that has made dreams become reality for millions across the world. Over the last decades, we have easily become one of the most recognised brand in the Nigerian financial landscape, and indeed, in corporate Nigeria.  Financial pundits speak Speaking on the bank’s anniversary, Chairman, Board of Parkway Projects, a financial technology firm, Richard Obire, said it requires resilience and adaptability for an institution in this environment to sustain operation for years. Related to that, according to him, is the capacity to have created an institution, which did not depend on one personality. “There have been several management successions. That speaks of the capacity to have built an institution. It is a legacy bank with tradition of excellence. They have managed to reborn themselves. When several new generation banks came and gave the bank a fight, it responded adequately,” he said. He said: “FirstBank today, banks the old people, the young and the youth’ markets. The bank has done exceptionally well.” Founder/Chief Executive Officer, Bank Customers Association of Nigeria (BCAN), Uju Ogubunka, said as the name implies, FirstBank has nothing to do with second or third, but remains the first. The bank, he said, has followed the sound principles of banking operation and continually complied with the rules of the game. He said the bank painstakingly chooses its leadership, and management personalities and that has made to thrive. Aside support for SMEs, its subsidiary, the FBN Holdings, established for investments in the services’ sector is hinged on contributing to building infrastructure and improving power generation through lending to investors and off-takers. Adeduntan  said the bank has continuously impacted the word with its business. He said: “This is a remarkable day as we officially flag off the commemorative activities marking the 125th Anniversary of our iconic pan-African institution. FirstBank clocks 125 years on March 31, certainly a big deal for us and our very supportive stakeholders. Today is a special day as we witness the hoisting of our 125th anniversary flag in celebration of this uncommon milestone in the annals of Nigeria’s history.’’ Adeduntan explained that the flag symbolises the identity, impact, permanence and reverence of an institution. “As a long-standing institution, which even predates Nigeria as a unified entity, FirstBank is entrenched in the nation’s development; woven into the very fabric of society, with our involvement in every stage of national growth and development. At the amalgamation, independence and through the seasons ever after, we have been here marching hand-in-hand with you and our dear nation. We have enabled financial, technological, industrial and societal advancements, achieving very many firsts over time,” he stressed. According to him, the bank has been resilient and supportive through periods of rapid and radical changes, pioneered and charted the course in the financial industry and the nation at large. The bank marked 120 years in 2014 and has consistently partnered with Western Union. In 2017, it had achieved over six million digital banking users and has also been named as the best retail bank in Nigeria in 2018. The lender has also achieved over 2,700 Automated Teller Machine (ATMs) and had First Bank launched the first cash deposit ATM in Nigeria in 2011. “Agent Banking spread across the country (18,000 agencies) – the highlight of this entails we promoting financial inclusion across the length and breadth of Nigeria. Number of branches across the country are in 730 business locations. Our alternative channels are among the first to launch whatsapp banking, then you can have firstmobile and firstonline also included. It was also second bank in Africa and first in Nigeria to issue 10 million cards,” the bank said. The bank was also recognised by Inters-witch as the first financial institution in Nigeria to achieve 100 million sustained monthly transactions in electronic payment, in December 2015 and again in May 2016. In 2008, we were the first Nigerian bank and first quoted company in the country to hit N2 trillion market capitalisation.