Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC),Chief John Odigie Oyegun has accused his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole of turning himself into an agent of disruption, trying to frustrate the smooth running of government in Edo state. Oyegun also accused Oshiomhole of playing god in Edo politics even though he claimed to have buried godfatherism in the state, advising him to stop disgracing the APC in Edo state through the ignoble role he is playing in fuelling the crisis in Edo state. Speaking through his Public Affairs Adviser, Chief Ray Morphy, Chief Oyegun said he is yet to come to terms as to why Comrade Oshiomhole has easily forgotten that he never interfered in Edo state affairs as the National chairman of the ruling party while he held forte as the then governor. He also wondered why the APC national chairman choose to forget that Governor Obaseki should be supported as the only APC governor in the South-South geopolitical zone rather than vilifying and destabilising his administration. The former Edo state governor who was reacting to recent public ulterance by Governor Godwin Obaseki accusing Oshiomhole of being behind the crisis rocking the state House of Assembly, said the APC Chairman was “blatantly and brazenly engaging in anti party to the extent that the party in Edo is now riven with confusion and division”. He asked members of the Progressive Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor being hampered by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party. Oyegun said: “The recent outburst by Governor Obaseki and the report by the House of Representatives ad-hoc committee, indicting the current National Chairman of the APC, have confirmed my earlier claim that Oshiomhole is not only the architect, but also responsible for fuelling the crisis in Edo state. “In the face of these confirmations, I want to urge Oshiomhole to stop disgracing the ruling party and the good people of Edo state. I wonder how he could easily forget that I never interfered or bothered about how he ran the government as the then governor of Edo state all the while I occupied the position of the party’s National chairman. “I am yet to come to terms why it has become difficult for Oshiomhole to realise that Governor Obaseki is the only APC governor in the entire South-south and should be allowed to concentrate in giving the people of Edo the dividend of democracy. “It is shocking that a man who boastfully claimed to have buried godfatherism in Edo state politics could become enmeshed in playing God to his successor. Oshiomhole is not only guilty of godfatherism, but also guilty of anti-party activities considering the ignorable role he has been playing and his shameful involvement in the whole Edo crisis. “Rather than dissipating energy in fomenting more crises, Oshiomhole should rather concentrate in ensuring that the federal government policies conform with the party’s manifesto and campaign promises to the good people of this country. “I appeal to him once more to stop disgracing the governing party APC and Edo state. He should give the governor a breeding space to concentrate in doing the job of serving the people of Edo state. “I want to also appeal to the Progressives Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor hampered by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party in the state”. As at the time of this report, Oshiomhole’s media aide, Simon Egbebulem was yet to react to the allegations.