The new board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has promised to deliver on the vision and mission of the Fund. The board said high performance would be achieved in line with the provisions of the law establishing the Fund. Its Chairman, Austin Enejamo-Isire, said this in Lagos when the board members paid a condolence visit to the late Dr Mohammed Yinusa’s family, a member of the board who died recently. Until his death, Yinusa was the Nigerian Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) President and represented NECA on the NSITF Board. Enejamo-Isire, who quoted the Fund’s vision to be the “leading social security institution in Africa, leading the change agenda, social policies, economic empowerment and poverty alleviation in Nigeria, said the Board will engage more on advocacy for employers and other stakeholders to embrace the scheme. He said: “That is the vision of the fund; that is what this new board wants to pursue and realise, because in realising that, the mission has also stated that a deliberate proactive action in the provision of social security protection is safety net for all Nigerians.” He described the late Yinusa as a man with enormous capacity, huge professionalism and well-packaged in such a way that will attract anyone, and regretted that members were not able to strategise long enough in moving the board to the desired level before his sudden death. On more awareness for the scheme, he said: “When you propagate what is the inherent benefit in any policy; be it social or commercial, if that benefit is properly sent across to the beneficiaries, they will embrace the scheme. “We can only ask that the human capital content of the Fund be embedded into a team spirit for us to deliver this result. We know we are on course to delivering qualitative service to Nigerians and can set the standard for social security delivery in the African continent. “We will try and see how we can key into creating awareness and sending this message into the sub-consciousness of the employers, and if that is done, you need not to preach further, the people will embrace the scheme naturally.”