Ghana’s National Insurance Commissioner (NIC) Justice Yaw Ofori has described Nigeria’s insurance capital requirement as fair. According to him, there is no need to compare Ghana’s new minimum capital requirement with that of Nigeria’s as the country’s market is five times bigger than Ghana’s. He spoke with reporters on the sidelines of the just-concluded insurance industry yearly conference in Abuja. The NIC last month raised the insurance (life and non-life) companies’minimum capital to GH¢50million from GH¢15million;  reinsurance companies also went up to GH¢125million from GH¢40 million; and  insurance broking companies increased to GH¢500,000 from GH¢300,000. Reinsurance broking companies were, however, maintained at GH¢1million. The increase was by at least 233 percent; reinsurance companies 212.5 percent; and insurance broking companies by 66.7 percent. The deadline for meeting this requirement was slated for June 2021—two years from now. Earlier on May 20, this year, NAICOM raised paid-up share capital of a Life insurance company from N2 billion to N8 billion; Non-Life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion and Composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion. Re-insurance companies on their part, were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. The increase was by 400 per cent (Life); 333.33 per cent (Non-Life); 360 per cent (Composite) and 200 per cent (Re-Insurance), while the insurance companies got a 13-month ultimatum to recapitalise or lose their licences. Following the announcement by Ghana NIC, insurance operators believed that Ghana insurance regulator was fairer to its operators, with lower capital requirement and longer time frame for the recapitalisation. But Ofori thinks otherwise. For him, the capital requirement as requested by NAICOM is fair for the business. He believes that Nigeria  is about five times Ghana’s size, believing  that with Nigeria’s market size at about five times that of Ghana, the capital requirement of Nigeria should have been five times of Ghana’s capital requirement. He urged insurance operators not to see the regulator as being difficult or anti-insurance, but as a body that has their interest in mind. He said: “Nigeria’s minimum capital requirement is higher than Ghana but we should understand that Nigeria is bigger than Ghana. Nigeria is like five  times and the economy is bigger. If you look at Africa, Nigeria has the largest population, a very strong market, I think it’s about the third or fourth when it comes to insurance on the continent. “So, definitely Nigeria is a big player and if you want to do business in such a country, you should be ready for the game. I don’t think that Nigeria didn’t think it through, rather I think NAICOM did a good job. Nigeria is a big market so let’s not draw the comparison. Different market, different strategy. I don’t know about the time frame that was given but even for us in Ghana, where we gave two years, our operators are still complaining that the time is too short. Insurance business is such that no matter what you do people will complain. “But as regulators, we want to give the right dosage. It is like when you have a child suffering from malaria and the medication you want to give is chloroquine which tastes very bitter. As the mother or father, you will insist that the child takes the medication to recover. So, I believe that they should not see the regulator as being anti-insurance. The regulator is actually there to support the industry but as a regulator, you will step on somebody’s toes and they don’t like it.’’