Operatives of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested a suspected pickpocket said to have confessed to earning N18,000 daily. Lawal Daodu, 31, the police said, snatched bags, stole phones, money and valuable items in Ikeja and on Lagos Island. He was reportedly arrested around 5pm last Friday after an unsuccessful attempt to steal a phone from a victim at Ikeja Under Bridge. According to the police, the suspect had stolen two Android phones from two victims and was on the third mission when he was caught. The third phone he was attempting to steal was said to have fallen and that drew the owner’s attention, who informed RRS operatives attached to an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) stationed nearby. “While the suspect was explaining the source of the phones in his possession, one of his victims, who was trying to catch a glimpse of what was happening, saw his phone in the suspect’s hand,” the police said. Daodu confessed to the police that he usually operated at the Computer Village, Ikeja and Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos Island. He said: “On Friday, I was at the Computer Village as usual. I had stolen two phones in the morning, which I sold to my customers at the Computer Village. In the afternoon, I resumed to steal phones. “I was stealing the third one when the owner shouted, which attracted RRS officers’ attention. They arrested me and unfortunately, as I was trying to prove my innocence, one of my victims saw his phone in my hand. “I don’t operate every time. I go out twice in a week. Sometimes I make at least N18,000 from pickpocketing. There are times I make more than that, especially when I steal expensive phones. “I started pickpocketing in 2017 and I have never been arrested until now. I buy and sell clothes at the Computer Village. I steal occasionally. “I sell stolen phones to Afeez and Lanre. They are street guys at the Computer Village. I was trained by Bello. I have not seen him recently.” Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), said the suspect was assisting detectives to arrest buyers of the stolen phones.