If the people are ignorant of the government’s responsibility, the government should not be ignorant of its responsibility.  It is interesting that an important observer asserted:  “When we break down the issues, we’ll see that what we are suffering from in this country is very deep level of ignorance.” The speaker, Resort Group Chairman Dr Wale Babalakin (SAN), said this at the June 20 annual lecture of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) in Lagos. He spoke on the theme “Infrastructure Development and Growth in Nigeria: Prospects and Challenges.” Babalakin argued: “In the course of the evolution of the country, we got our educational system wrong. So you have a system of education that doesn’t teach people what they should be asking for. They don’t even know what their rights are. You can go through primary, secondary school and university today without knowing that it is important to have a clean environment. You could go through these whole processes and not realise that government owes you anything. You could go through these without knowing that it is fundamental to building a society that we all learn to tell the truth and you say you want to develop infrastructure. Where do you start from?” He illustrated the problem with an anecdote: “Last week, I had a meeting somewhere in Surulere on Ajao Street. I got there at about 1:30pm. The water level was about one and a half feet and I saw students returning from school rolling up their trousers and wading through the water. I saw mothers doing the same thing and they were smiling all the way because really, they don’t believe it’s anybody’s responsibility to ensure that the place is drained. They believe it is their lot that they found themselves there and God can by miracle take them out and they would not look back. They would expect the other people too to go and pray to God to take them out of the situation. When you have that level of lack of demand or any form of entitlement, how do you begin to drive the system? How do you start?” It is significant that a few days before Babalakin’s lecture, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) had launched an investigation into N900b constituency projects in states. The probe seeks to verify constituency projects executed by immediate past senators and members of the House of Representatives in the 8th National Assembly between 2015 and 2018. The verification will involve 180 key projects in the 36 states, with at least five projects identified for tracking in each state. The first phase will be conducted in 12 states across the six geo-political zones of the country: Kogi and Benue (North-Central); Adamawa and Bauchi (North-East); Sokoto and Kano (North-West); Imo and Enugu (South-East); Lagos and Osun (South-West); and Akwa Ibom and Edo (South-South). A report said the commission “will make recoveries on projects/contracts confirmed to have been inflated or in which contractors underperformed or did not perform at all.”  ICPC Chairman Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye said: “The level of implementation of constituency projects in 16 focus states for 2015 is revealing. Out of 436 constituency projects for the year that were tracked, 145 were completed, 77 ongoing while 211 were not executed at all. For 2016, out of a total of 852 constituency projects in 20 states in the 2016 Budget that were tracked, 350 were completed, 118 were ongoing, 41 locations not specified in the budget and 343 not done or performed. In 2017, a total of 1,228 constituency projects in the budget were tracked for performance as at June 2018. Out of these, 478 were completed, 173 in unspecified location, 200 ongoing, 13 abandoned and 364 not started. The level of performance of constituency projects is therefore disputable.” In summary, about 2, 516 projects were tracked between 2015 and 2017; 918 were not done, 395 were ongoing and 214 could not be located. Owasanoye added: “Constituency projects are intended to be developmental, such as provision of water, rural electrification, rural clinics, schools, community centres and bursary for indigent students. In the light of annual budgetary allocations to constituency projects and based on actual releases by the government, it is firmly believed that the impact of constituency projects on the lives of ordinary Nigerians ought to be more visible…The concern is that in Nigeria, rather than address the needs of constituents, many constituency projects have become avenues of corruption.” This picture highlights the relevance and significance of Babalakin’s observations in his CIBN lecture.  The probe is commendable. But it means that constituency projects before 2015 may never be probed. This is why Babalakin’s conclusion that public ignorance about the government’s responsibility is responsible for the country’s infrastructure deficit deserves attention.  What did affected constituents do about undelivered constituency projects? Could they have done something? If they did nothing, why was that the case? A big player in the business world, Babalakin is a big promoter of public-private partnership (PPP), which has helped infrastructure development in other countries.  In 2016, at the Nigerian Economic Summit in Abuja,  Babalakin had listed the enemies of public-private partnership in Nigeria: the attitude of the government, lack of respect for sanctity of contracts and the rule of law, lack of investor security, corruption and malice. Not surprisingly, in his CIBN lecture, Babalakin shared some of his group’s experiences regarding the Murtala Mohammed Airport Domestic Terminal 2 (MMA2) and the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.  He said MMA2 “was built against the run of play, those who gave us the project did not want the project completed… How do you cope with that?”  He continued: “It’s been 12 years since we completed MMA2 and no government… has done anything comparable. This is because infrastructural development is… about serious commitment and a lot of intellectual rigour.” ”The Lagos-Ibadan expressway project is unthinkable,” he said.  ”We signed the contract in 2009 to design, build, operate and transfer… they terminated the concession for lack of performance without disclosing to the public that they had held us down for 22 months.”  Babalakin added: “It is sad that seven years after the project was cancelled, the road is only 40% ready. They are building 40% of what we wanted to build and the project has no design. It is just a repeat resurfacing of the 1977 road. The architecture of that place has changed phenomenally since 1977 and our design accommodated all the changes… Our total cost was N112b. Now, over N350b has been spent on 40% of what we planned to build and they are still at 40%.” Babalakin, who turns 59 today, is a vocal visionary. Nigerians need to demand that the government should play its role responsibly.