The new Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Melee Kyari, yesterday met behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He was in the company of the immediate past GMD, Maikanti Baru. Kyari, who assumed office on Monday, promised to automate all the NNPC systems to stamp out corruption in the sector. Speaking with State House correspondents alongside his predecessor,  Kyari said he was aware of the enormous responsibility before him and promised not to disappoint Buhari and the country. He said he will work closely with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to fight corruption in the corporation. He said: “We are going to work with the EFCC and other institutions; institutions that are involved in controlling and contending any form of corruption in our system. “This is in line with Mr. President’s cardinal principle to fight corruption so that this country can benefit from its resources. “There will be corruption where there is no discretion. So we will automate our systems and processes so that discretion is reduced to the barest minimum. ” We need the help of EFCC wherever we see infractions in our systems, compromise our systems,” he said. On the responsibility ahead of him, he said: “It is clear, I was part of the team that has been working assiduously since he (former GMD) resumed office. ” I understand the gravity of the assignment given to me, the trust that is associated with this work and the high expectations of Mr President for us to make the company, a global company of excellence and to deliver to the citizenry the benefits of  the oil and gas industry.” “We are focussed in ensuring that we deliver this in the shortest possible time and in the most efficient way. I assure all of us that we will do this work with integrity. I will ensure that by 2023 Mr. President will look back and confirm that he has not misplaced his trust first in Dr. Baru and transferring it to us is a testament of the confidence Mr. President has in the Corporation. “We will make sure at the end of the day that the Corporation becomes an integrator of the economy,” he stated Baru said it was his expectation that the new management of NNPC would do more than double what he did.