Telecoms technocrat, Engr. Ernest Ndukwe, over the weekend, emerged board Chairman of telecoms giant, MTN Communications Nigeria Plc. A former Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), Nigerian Communications Commission(NCC) Ndukwe is fondly called Mr. Telecoms for his vast experience and rich contributions to the growth of the industry over the years. A highly respected professional, his  career has gone full circle. Starting from the private sector as the Managing Director of a notable telecoms firm, he moved into government service at the helm of the industry regulatory agency as EVC of NCC and back to the private sector and now Chair, MTN. President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusol Teniola, said the appointment is healthy for the industry. Teniola said: “Mr Telecom has provided us with his wisdom and unbiased opinion as to the direction of the industry at large. MTN has acquired a statesman and a knowledgable practitioner to man their ship. We look forward to working with him and his board to continue to grow this industry to its fullest potential.” A cerebral  manager, Ndukwe was an adjunct faculty at the Pan Atlantic University/Lagos Business School and also a Director of the School’s Infrastructure Centre. His passion for human capacity development in the industry led to the birth of the Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), an international centre for telecommunications and information technology studies, during his tour of duty as EVC of NCC. He would always state that the greatest legacy of his tenure in government is the liberalisation of access to telecoms and making the benefits and impact of ICT available to the masses especially the poor and the traditionally disenfranchised groups. A recipient of the national honour of the Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic, OFR, Ndukwe is a past Chairman of Administrative Council of African Telecommunications Union, ATU, and a past Chairman of the West African Telecommunications Regulators Assembly, WATRA, which he helped pioneer. He was also a Vice Chairman of Telecom Development Advisory Group (TDAG) of the ITU representing Nigeria. In April 2014, he was decorated with an ITU Gold Medal Award “in recognition of his important contribution to global Information and communication technologies and to the work of ITU”. Ndukwe has represented Nigeria at various international events and is a regular resource person at international conferences including ITU.