The Bayelsa State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend urged all aspirants, who picked the party’s nomination forms for the governorship primaries to play by the rules. The chairman of the party, Chief Moses Cleopas, insisted that aspirants should demonstrate a high level of civility in the activities leading to the forthcoming primaries in the state. Cleopas, in a statement in Yenagoa, expressed joy at the large number of credible, competent and reputable politicians indicating interest in the governorship of the state on the platform of the PDP. He said that the large number of aspirants was clearly reflective of good leadership provided in the state by Governor Seriake Dickson over the years. He said the party expected its aspirants to conduct themselves within the provisions of its constitution and guidelines since only one person would emerge a candidate after the primaries. Moses said that the large number of aspirants was a reflection of the strength of the PDP and Dickson’s leadership style. He explained that the PDP sustained its image as one solid, united and cohesive party to attract serious-minded gubernatorial aspirants. Moses expressed confidence that Dickson would lead the party to ylanother electoral victory in the November 16, 2019 election after the emergence of the party’s candidate in the primaries scheduled for September 3. He said it was a fact that the governor led the party to its victories in the hotly contested elections in 2012, 2015 and the National Assembly elections and and would be available to repeat the feat in November. He commended the national leadership òf the PDP for its continuing direction and support over the years “which is not taken for granted.” He praised teeming supporters of the PDP for their steadfastness and urged them to remain focused. Cleopas said: We assure all the aspirants òf free and fair primaries. The process for the selection of a gubernatorial candidate for the PDP will further strengthen the party for the inevitable victory come November 16, 2019″.