First and foremost, aspartame is a widely used, low-calorie, artificial sweetener and one of the most popular sugar substitutes in low-calorie food and drinks, including diet sodas. It is also a component of some medications. Aspartame is also available under the brand names NutraSweet and Equal. Despite its extensive use and popularity though, aspartame has become a source of controversy in recent years with several studies claiming the sweetener has adverse side effects. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved aspartame for use in food and drink back in 1981. Agencies in Europe, Canada, Nigeria and many other countries also approve its use. Furthermore, the following authorities endorse it: World Health Organisation, United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation, American Heart Association, American Dietetic Association, National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control [NAFDAC]. In 2013, the Europa journal conducted a review of hundreds of studies looking into the effects of aspartame. The EFSA ruled aspartame safe for human consumption and set an Acceptable Daily Intake or ADI of aspartame at 40 milligrams (mg) per kilogramme (kg) of weight. The EFSA’s acceptable daily intake for aspartame is 10 mg lower than the amount the FDA consider safe. However, the amounts set by both the EFSA and the FDA are far lower than most people consume in a day. A can of diet soda, for example, contains only about 190 mg of aspartame. A person would have to consume more than 19 cans of soda to reach the ADI limits. I do not know how many people in Nigeria consume as much as 10 cans of soda in a day. Effects on body weight Aspartame contains four calories per gram (g), similar to sugar. It is, however, around 200 times sweeter than sugar. This means that only a tiny amount of aspartame is necessary to sweeten foods and drinks. For this reason, people often use it in weight-loss diets. Pros Cons Although aspartame is approved by the Food and Drug Administration, there are some resources that say it is unsafe for use. Here are some of the controversial dangers of taking aspartame. By contrast, a content of the latest research found no evidence that the low-calorie sweeteners aspartame, sucralose, and stevioside, were effective for weight management. A full text published in Trends in Endocrinology and Metabolism cites several animal studies that report a link between regular intake of non-nutritive sweeteners and increased food intake. Further research on human participants might lead to a better understanding of the link between aspartame consumption and appetite control. Though I am not canvassing support for aspartame, note that the Acceptable Daily Intake [ADI] of aspartame is 40mg per kilogramme of body weight. Meanwhile, a can of diet soda contains only about 190mg of aspartam. A person would need to consume more than 19 cans of soda daily to reach the ADI. 