In a bid to satisfy the yearning for improved English grammar skills in the youth educational sector of Nigeria, MTN Nigeria through its tween and teen proposition, mPulse is sponsoring the first ever private school leg of the Lagos State Spelling Bee competition. From Monday, June 10, 2019, the first batch of the intra-school competition began across 70 private schools in Lagos State, with the second batch of the competition slated for October, this year. The second phase will usher a three-week inter-school competition, which will have schools compete in various Districts, culminating in a grand finale during the last quarter of the year. Ifako International School; Barachel Schools; Chrisland Schools; Caleb International School; Dansol High School; CTC School, etc, are among the over 37 schools that have competed so far in the keenly contested Spelling Bee. The champion will, among other gifts, ultimately become the first kid-CEO of MTN Nigeria, as MTN Chief Executive Officer, Ferdi Moolman, will welcome the winner to occupy his seat for one day. Speaking on MTN’s sponsorship of the competition, Chief Marketing and Strategy Officer, MTN Nigeria, Rahul De, said “the importance of a competition that enables young minds to exercise their creativity in English Grammar cannot be overemphasized. This will help thousands of students improve their spelling knowledge, increase their vocabulary, learn a variety of concepts and develop correct English usage that will set them apart and expand their opportunities.” He shared his excitement about the competition; “The Lagos State Private Schools Spelling Bee is a great way to encourage a reading culture in our children and as we know, readers are leaders. We have found a way to encourage these future leaders to strive for even more.” The mPulse Lagos State Spelling Bee competition has continued to deliver an exhilarating and informative experience for all the participants, parents and schools involved as well asthose following the competition on numerous online and social media platforms.