Claim – Are there 80,000 cows from the North with the virus of cow pox? Conclusion – No Full text A recent WhatsApp message circulated in groups claim there are currently 80,000 cows from the north with virus of cow pox. The broadcast reads: “Poison 80,000 cows from the north with the virus of cow pox. Please call all your family, tell them not to buy or eat cow meat from tomorrow by Nigeria government. There is virus of cow pox now. Send to people you know, you might save life. Please make sure you inform your loved ones.” This message may have been making rounds due to the current agitations against Ruga settlements, which many states and individuals have rejected, leading to its suspension by the federal government. Verification of claim Cow pox is an infectious disease caused by cowpox virus. The virus is zoonotic, meaning it is transferable between species such as from animal to human. The transferal of the disease was first observed in dairymaids who touched the udders of infected cows and consequently developed the signature pustules on their hands. Cowpox is more commonly found in animals other than bovines, such as rodents. Cowpox is similar to, but much milder than, the highly contagious and often deadly smallpox disease. The Nation and Dubawa check revealed a similar message was released in October 17, 2017 in a Facebook page titled “Never Give Up”. A google reversed image search revealed the picture attached to the 2019 claim making round is the picture of small pox vaccine blister popped while the first possible post that showed the picture was in August 10, 2011. Contacts were made to the various groups this was posted but no one seemed to know where it originated from. Everyone simply said they spread the news to educate others. Emails to the Federal Ministry of Health and Federal Ministry of Agriculture through their official email on the issue were not replied as at the time of filing this report. Boko Haram is a deadly Islamic sect operating in North East Nigeria, Cameroon and some neighboring countries. Its usual methods, namely bombings, shooting, destruction of properties and kidnap is well known but in saying the sect could have poisoned 80,000 cows with the “Cow Pox” virus would mean that Boko Haram may have added bioterrorism to its method. However, truth is it is nothing but a hoax. The message on WhatsApp and Facebook platforms is not based on any information from competent authorities. A nutritionist in the Niger Ministry of Health, Dietitian Asmau Abubakar Muhammad said cooking meat in high temperature can kill bacteria and virus, except for some that have been said to withstand high temperature which she said cow pox is does not belong to. “High temperature can kill bacteria and virus but there are some bacterial that can withstand high temperature but a micro-biologist can classify these bacteria. “But I can tell you that cooking to the right temperature can kill any virus or bacteria in meat.” Conclusion The claim that there are 80,000 poisoned cows from the north with the virus of cow pox and its picture is false and misleading. It is meant to create fear and panic among Nigerians.