Sir: The discourse on the plight of refugees and the migrants is again on the international media radar with usual terrifying headlines. The recent dastardly act where at least 53 refugees were killed, including six children and 130 injured, including 9 Nigerian nationals, in air strike on Tajoura detention centre, Libya comes to mind. There are approximately 500 refugees and migrants held in the detention camp, and the detention camp was apparently struck twice, with one missile hitting an unoccupied garage and another hitting a hanger and which contained some 120 refugees and migrants. According to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, there are reports that following the first impact, some refugees and migrants were fired upon by guards as they tried to escape. This is inhuman! The UN envoy to Libya, Ghassan Salame, told the Security Council in May that ‘nearly 3,400 refugees and migrants are trapped in detention centres exposed to or in close proximity to, the fighting’. Reports indicate that the UN has not handled the situation in Libya with all seriousness it deserves and should also be blamed for not taking swift action before the attack on the refugees’ camp after warning from officials. As the world-governing body responsible in promoting peace and security, the UN can pressure the warring parties to a ceasefire immediately, in order to give enough time to evacuate the refugees and migrants to a safe location or even relocate them to a nearby country. Elsewhere, in Italy it’s another blow to the refugees and migrants as the far-right populist party has passed a law to fine any boat rescuing refugees from sea up to £50,000; those who repeatedly violate the law risk having their boat seized. Italy’s cabinet approved the measure two weeks after the anti-immigrants league triumphed in European parliamentary elections. Matteo Salvini, Italy’s interior minister and deputy prime minister has repeatedly accused charity rescuers of being complicit with people smugglers. Both the Italian authorities and the Libyan UN-backed government have also compounded the problem and hardship faced by the refugees and migrants through violation of international maritime laws. The international community must rise to its responsibility to protect refugees and the UN should pass a resolution to criminalize rejection of refugees and migrants while on board. Because moves to force refugees from waters back to war zone is not just a flagrant violation of international law, but height of insensitivity! It’s commendable the recent pronouncements by the UN that the parties involved in the Libyan attack should be treated as war criminals, while the parties should also return to  UN- mediated political talks and urged other countries not to intervene or exacerbate conflict in Libya. The time for action is now!  smilefaceglobalpeace