Former banker and member, Ikoyi Club Nwachukwu Ignatius Dike passed on in Lagos after a protracted illness. In this tribute, Kingsley Dike, a retired US Army officer, Atlanta, Georgia, recalls the fond memories of his uncle, especially his wise counsels. No time is death welcome in the family. But the death of Mr. Nwachukwu Ignatius Dike on June 21, 2019 has been  very devastating to me. I enjoyed very close relations with him that I could conveniently say I am one of his many disciples and protégé in the family and beyond. He was a good man who was interested in bringing out the best in other people. From a very early stage, I was a beneficiary of his many wise counsels. He featured in our growing up at home in Kwale, Delta State. He admired and honoured his uncle my father Chief Joseph Dike and the relationship was mutual. He was my father’s favourite among his nephews. Thus, he has a major influence in our choices of what to do and how to go about it. He was instrumental, in line with my father’s mentorship, in encouraging all of us to seek admissions in federal universities, himself a graduate of Economics at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). He later had a brilliant career with Hallmark Bank and Unity Bank. He was a leader in the community and gave back to society. First, he served in the UNN’s Students Union Government. He was a member of the Rotary and Apapa clubs and was active in organising their community outreach programmes, particularly in supporting indigent families with holiday cheers during the Yuletide and scholarship scheme of UNN Alumni Association. He was a loving father to his four children and dedicated husband to his wife Nzolu. Thus, you saw the pride and glow when I attended the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), and Jonathan and Harrison the University of Ibadan. As the teenage years came with their natural propensity for us to disagree and fall-out with our disciplinarian father Chief Dike, Nwachukwu was the mediator who ensured that we stayed the course without deviating from his uncle’s vision for our development. As he used to say, you might disagree with Chief Dike in other issues, but he was never wrong with his instincts on what career path to follow and how to go about it. Nwachukwu would be greatly missed. I will forever miss the boisterous laughter. Always a happy person who saw the good in every situation and every human being. He was the centre of the Dike family, reaching out to everyone and abreast with our problems and triumphs. I remember the many long conversations I had with him from the various locations my served in the United States Army. In Iraq he would patiently listen to my war stories and pray for my safe return. In Germany we would delve into world history and the impact of WW2 on decolonisation in Africa and in South Korea, he was so concerned for my safety when I told him my unit was stationed about 100 miles from the DMZ, the most fortified border in the world. Every time he sees any news about the U.S. Army or soldier on CNN, Nwachukwu would call my family to know how I was doing; if I could not be reached. Thank you for your care and may your sweet gentle soul rest in peace. Nwachukwu, 59, was survived by relatives, among whom are his uncle Chief Joseph Uzor Dike, the Iyasele Onowu of Onuaboh; his brothers and sisters: Mr. John Dike, retired Chevron Oil communications expert; Mrs. Julie Oshilim of the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja; Mr. Festus Dike, a Lagos-based banker; his cousins Mr. Ferdinand Dike and Ms. Magdalene Dike, both of the Delta State Judiciary, Asaba. Adieu Brother Nwachukwu.