The BBNaija ‘Pepper Dem’ housemates once again took part in another round of nominations on Monday night. As with each nomination process, the housemates get to put up two of their fellow housemates up for possible eviction. With last Sunday’s eviction hammer still fresh in their memories, the housemates have come to understand the rules of the game. They each took turns in the diary room to make their nominations as usual, but it turned out that ‘Biggie’ had other plans. In what could have been Jeff and Thelma topping the list with six and five nomination nods respectively, Biggie in yet another twist announces that all 16 housemates have been nominated and hence up for possible eviction next week Sunday. The reason for this decision as Biggie later revealed was their punishment for disobeying house rules which he said included: refusal to attend morning workout sessions, whispering and speaking inaudibly amongst other infringements. Khafi unluckily does not have the option to replace or save herself as her Veto Power, which she won during the Veto Power Holder Game of Chance on Sunday night, was made redundant. She will now join the rest of the nominees who are up for possible eviction on Sunday, July 28. Adding flavor to the show, Basketmouth, Bovi have been selected as the hosts of exclusive Big Brother Naija recap show, as video streaming service, Showmax, launches in Nigeria. The launch brings two important firsts – the first time a wide range of popular Nigerian series can be binged from the beginning, and a partnership with Big Brother Naija featuring live streaming of the Sunday night evictions as well as two new BBNaija shows that are exclusive to Showmax. One of the new shows will be hosted by comedians, Basketmouth and Bovi, who will provide hilarious commentary on happenings in the Big Brother Naija house. The video streaming service features a dedicated slate of Nigerian TV shows and movies, international hit series, Hollywood blockbusters, and a Big Brother Naija partnership with live streaming and exclusive new BBNaija shows. Speaking about the new service, Niclas Ekdahl, CEO of MultiChoice Group’s Connected Video division, said: “We’re aiming for the sweet spot that other services may have missed. Taking a generic service and tacking on a few Nollywood movies won’t cut it, so we’re coming in with a strong mix of bang up-to-date Nigerian shows, international hits and favourites from across Africa, and now, as something completely new: on-demand and live Big Brother Naija content.”