Preamble This is another season of Hajj. This season comes up in the month of Dhul Hijjah every year to accentuate the divine authority that brought it to mankind. The word Hajj means aspiration towards a higher spiritual pedestal and Dhul Hijjah is the last month of Islamic calendar. Hajj is a divinely ordained pilgrimage based on piety for Muslims who can afford it and not a manmade tourism. Thus, the visa issued to Muslims who perform Hajj annually is that of pilgrimage and not one of tourism. Whilst pilgrimage is an ordained spiritual exercise, tourism is a mere pleasurable journey. A whole chapter (chapter 22) in the Qur’an is divinely dedicated to Hajj and named the Chapter of Hajj. And that is where the Muslims derive their spiritual authority to perform Hajj. Similitude of Hajj The similitude of Hajj in the life of a Muslim is like that of pregnancy in the womb of an expectant mother. The experience may vary from woman to woman as the foetus in the womb undergoes various stages of development before it reaches the stage of delivery. By the time the child is finally delivered, the mother feels a relief of her life while the child assumes a ‘tabula rasa’ (clean slate) that makes him absolutely innocent. After Hajj, a pilgrim becomes like a newly born baby spiritually if he strictly adheres to the rules and regulations of Hajj as ordained by Allah. But returning into the world of iniquities after Hajj, automatically makes him/her like a person in a snow-white attire who finds himself in a palm oil market. Unless such a pilgrim spiritually guides his loins, he/she may immediately become a tainted entity both in body and in soul. Rigours of Hajj Muslim pilgrims who are going on Hajj must be prepared to go through series of rigour both spiritually and physically. The rigour of getting legitimate money with which to perform Hajj; the rigour of getting the travelling documents including passport, visa and yellow card; the rigour of taking care of the home front before embarking on the Holy journey; the rigour of boarding the plane with a sense of high risk; the rigour of going through the security checks at the embarkation point from home  and disembarkation point in Saudi Arabia;  the rigour of performing the Tawaf and Sa’y; the rigour of moving from Makkah to Muna on the 8th day of Dhul-Hijjah and from Muna to ‘Arafah on the 9th day of Dhul-Hijjah as well as back to Muna via Muzdalifah on the 10th of Dhul-Hijjah; the rigour of throwing the pebbles at the Jamrat in Muna on the three or four days known as Ayamu-t-Tashrik; the rigour of performing Tawaful Ifadah at the Haram in Makkah; the rigour of performing the farewell circumambulation otherwise known as Tawaful Wada‘i,  all in the midst of millions of people can be too much to forget easily after Hajj. Whoever is not bothered by the money spent on Hajj should at least be bothered by the various stages of the rigour involved including that of visiting Madinah. To lose all these efforts to the forces of Satan after Hajj is like losing one’s travelling passport after obtaining visa. The prayer of every genuine pilgrim is to retain the validity of Hajj and its spiritual value forever. Prerequisites for Hajj Performance Performance of pilgrimage is based on certain fundamental conditions. These include genuine intention and high spiritual standard, attainment of puberty, very sound health, regular and sincere practice of the first four pillars of Islam ie: Salat, Zakah, and Sawm, all of which are fervently based on faith (Iman). Hajj without these pre-requisites is like a tree without roots. Money is one of the major pre-requisite for Hajj performance but it is not absolute. The day of Arafah in Hajj, shows, very vividly, the similitude of what mankind will experience on the Day of Judgment. Looking at the unique dress which pilgrims wear for Hajj and how they assemble at Arafat while leaving their luggage behind in Makkah, one will realize how ephemeral this world is. It must be remembered that some of them may never return from Arafah to the place where their luggage is kept and some may end up in hospitals. Meanwhile, pilgrims on Hajj this year must be weary of the burning scourge of the heat in Saudi Arabia. The must avoid roaming about in that heat. They must constantly drink water to avoid dehydration. The weather experts had predicted in 2015 that the current weather situation in Saudi Arabia during Hajj would remain the same for 15 years. Purpose of Hajj The various stages of preparation through which pilgrims must pass before arriving at Arafat are symbolic of our peregrinations on earth as human beings. Like the Day of Judgment after death, Arafat is the climax of Hajj performance. Anybody who misses Arafat misses Hajj. But Arafat is not by physical appearance alone. It takes a combination of factors to participate effectively in the great assembly at Arafah which serves as the climax of Hajj. Process of Hajj For Hajj to serve its spiritual purpose in the life of a pilgrim, certain steps must be taken before leaving home. They are as follows: Admonition While admonishing Muslims on spiritual journey including Hajj and emigration, Prophet Muhammad (SAW) once said: “Actions shall be judged according to intentions. Whoever embarks on a spiritual journey for the sake of Allah will be adjudged according to intention. And whoever intends to embark on such a journey for the purpose of marriage or material gains should not expect any reward beyond that for which he intends”. Step by Step of Hajj The spiritual steps to take in the performance of Hajj are as follows: Miqat is the specified place for the knotting of the intention for Hajj performance and wearing of Ihram dress. Of the six available Miqats, five were appointed by Prophet Muhammad (SAW) while the sixth one was pinpointed many years after the demise of Asian pilgrims. But the one earmarked for pilgrims from Nigeria cannot be reached by those travelling by air. It is over-flown while crossing the Red Sea. But what most Nigerians do according to rule is to wear their Ihram dress in Jeddah which is adjudged right through a Fatwah issued by highest scholarly authority in Saudi Arabia. Thus, Nigerian pilgrims can now wear their Ihram dress on arrival at the pilgrims’ airport in Jeddah if they fly directly to Jeddah. However, pilgrims whose first destination in Saudi Arabia is Madinah have no problem with Miqat. Such pilgrims should just wear their Ihram dresses at the Miqat in Madinah. (i)     Tawaful-Qudum Tawaf means circumambulation of the Ka’bah. The very first Tawaf to be performed by any pilgrim on entering Makkah is called Tawaful Qudum (meaning welcoming circumambulation). It is performed before the pilgrims settle down in their residences. Tawaful Qudum is an obligatory Sunnah from which only pilgrims from Makkah are exempted. (ii)    Residence in Makkah or Madinah Most Nigerian pilgrims often seek their accommodations in Makkah or Madinah close to the Haram. This is to enable them to walk to and from the Haram conveniently at the times of any Salat. To minimize pilgrims’ regular occurrence of missing their ways, they are provided with hand bands bearing the addresses of their residences. And this enables official Hajj guides to show them the way. Pilgrims are therefore advised to wear such bands at all times. It is also important for pilgrims to always be with their identity cards provided by Nigeria’s National Hajj Commission (NAHCON).This is to enable them to be identified in case of sickness, accident or even death. (iii)   Movement to Muna Pilgrims’ statutory movement to Muna is on the 8th of Dhul Hijjah. They must spend the night of the 8th of Dhul-Hijjah in Muna where they should observe Salatus-Subhi of the 9th day of Dhul Hijjah, which is Arafah Day, before proceeding to the Plain of Arafah.. Such movement must commence from Makkah after Tawaful Qudum. There is no movement to Muna from Madinah since there is no Tawaf in Madinah. The Day of Arafah All pilgrims proceeding to the Plain of Arafat are advised to stay under their tents and concentrate on the spiritual activities that take them to the place. They must reach Arafat before the mid- day when Salatu-d-Dhuhr and ‘Asr should be observed combined and in congregation. Any pilhrim who is not at Arafat by mid-day is considered not to have taken part in the assembly and therefore missed Hajj. Immediately after observing the combined Salatu-d-Dhuhr and ‘Asr the Imam who led the two Salat is expected to give a sermon. Listening to such sermon is as compulsory as giving it by the Imam. The great assembly of Arafat terminates shortly before the sunset (Magrib) while the pilgrims return to Muna via Muzdalifah. Muzdalifah Camp Muzdalifah is a transit camp on the way to Muna from Arafah. At that camp, pilgrims are expected to halt their journey to observe the two Salats of Magrib and ‘Ishai combined. They are also expected to pass the night there and observe the Salat-s-Subh of the following morning before proceeding to Muna where they will sttle down for three or four days as an obligation of Hajj. Muzdalifah is adjacent to Muna and it is thus a walking distance to the Jamrat (the stoning place) for pilgrims who are healthy enough to carry out the exercise. The Jamrat Stoning the devils (Rajmu Jimar) begins a day after Arafat and continues for the next three or four days that the pilgrims are supposed to spend at Muna. This exercise is obligatory and without it Hajj is considered incomplete or even invalid except when and where a pilgrim is hindered by certain inevitable conditions. There are three points at which stones are to be thrown. These are Jamratus-Sugrah, Jamratul-Wustah and Jamratul- Kubrah. On the first day in Muna, only seven stones are to be thrown at the Jamratul Kubrah which is the last and biggest of the three Jamrats. On the remaining two or three days in Muna, seven pebbles are to be thrown at each of of the three Jamrats beginning from Jamratus-Sughrah which is the first and smallest. Where to pick Stones It is part of the rules of Hajj that the first seven stones to be thrown at the Jamrats be picked at Muzdalifah. All other stones may be picked in Muna after the first day of stone throwing. Picking such stones at the point of throwing them is forbidden. All stones must have been picked before leaving the tent for the ‘Jamrat’ or on the way to the ‘Jamrat’. For pilgrims who decide to spend three days in Muna, the total number of pebbles to be thrown is 49 (7 for the first day, 21 for the second day and 21 for the third day). For pilgrims who choose to spend four days, the total number of pebbles to be thrown is 70. The Majzarah (Abattoir) Slaughtering of all sacrificial animals is done at the abattoir in Muna. Pilgrims do not need to bother themselves by going to the abattoir for the purpose of carrying out this obligation. They can simply buy the guaranteed ticket sold by designated Saudi banks or agents. The receipt is the evidence that one has performed that duty. The slaughtering is done on behalves of the pilgrims by some authorized butchery artisans who are paid by the Saudi Hajj authorities from the money paid for those animals. The animals to be slaughtered at Jamrat range from rams to camels. A pilgrim should slaughter one ram or more while seven pilgrims may combine to slaughter one camel or five of them may jointly slaughter one cow. Tawaful Ifadah Tawaful Ifadah is compulsory for all pilgrims including those who are not strong enough but can be carried on wheel. Without Tawaful Ifadah, Hajj is invalid. Any pilgrim who chooses to go for Tawaful Ifadah on the first day of Ayamut-Tashrik must return to Muna before the sunset. Such a pilgrim must not break the camping rule at Muna by going to Makkah without performing Tawaf-ul- Ifadah. With the completion of the camping days in Muna which is climaxed by Tawaful-Ifadah and the arrival of all the pilgrims in Makkah, Hajj has come to an end except for Tawaf Wada‘i otherwise called farewell Tawaf. That Tawaf is also an obligatory Sunnah. Conclusion Throughout the Hajj exercise, what should be uppermost in the mind of a pilgrim is the spiritual benefit. Hajj is made compulsory only once in a life time for those who have the wherewithal to undergo it and can satisfy the conditions attached to its performance. On arriving home finally, pilgrims are not expected to start organizing parties in celebration of a successful Hajj performance as ignorantly done by some Nigerians. Maintaining Hajj is a necessity for those who know the value of doing that. Whoever is privileged to perform Hajj once should be grateful to Allah forever as no one is sure of getting another chance. After a successful Hajj, the general greetings are as follows: Hajjan mbruran! Wa Sa’yan mashkuran! Wa Tijaratan lan taburah! 