Acting Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman Ibrahim Magu has deplored the United Kingdom’s failure to try former Petroleum Minister Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke or extradite her and others to Nigeria. He has also lamented the difficulties in repatriating the loot stashed abroad. JOSEPH JIBUEZE highlights some of the assets recovered from Mrs Alison-Madueke and seeks lawyers’ views on some of the issues Magu raised. On August 23, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) will move a motion for the permanent forfeiture of 2,149 pieces of jewellery and a customised golden iPhone seized from former Petroleum Minister Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke. The application, like others before it, is unlikely to be opposed. The Federal High Court in Lagos on July 5 ordered the temporary forfeiture of the items. Several other assets and funds traced to Mrs Alison-Madueke have been forfeited to the Federal Government, without any objection. Mrs Alison-Madueke is named in several corruption cases. The EFCC claims she is on the run. In no fewer than two cases, those charged with her have been convicted; others pleaded guilty. The former minister is in the United Kingdom (UK), but according to Acting EFCC Chairman Ibrahim Magu, not much progress has been made towards trying her there. ‘No visible result’ Magu is dissatisfied with the delay in trying Mrs Alison-Madueke in the UK. According to him, the matter “has dragged on in the UK for more than four years with no visible result and no end in sight”. Speaking when he received a team of International Criminal Police Organisation in Abuja last Wednesday, Magu said the amount involved in the case against Diezani in the UK is about $2.4billion. Earlier, on June 25, Magu had lamented the difficulties in repatriating stolen assets. “The process of repatriating money stashed abroad has been very frustrating and disappointing, yet we have done everything possible, gone out of our way to encourage our sister agencies, but cooperation is almost nil,” he said. Magu spoke when Country Director of an international development firm, DAI Nigeria, Dr. Joe Abah, visited him. Noting that “the Swiss have been more cooperative”, Magu observed that “the others never disclose their findings”, and are “very reluctant to get the proceeds repatriated”. Detectives storm Nigeria Magu’s complaints came after UK detectives visited Nigeria in June for what appeared a final lap of investigation ahead of Mrs Alison-Madueke’s trial. The detectives, who met with EFCC operatives, were said to have gathered more evidence and sought a few clarifications on some findings at their disposal. It was learnt that EFCC has traced N47.2 billion and $487.5 million to the ex-minister. The agency also claimed that Diezani has N23,446,300,000 and $5 million (about N1.5 billion) in various Nigerian banks. Some of the forfeited assets The EFCC has secured final forfeiture orders on some Diezani’s assets and funds. They include about $37.5 million Banana Island property; Heritage Court Estate, Plot 2C, Omerelu Street, Diobu Port Harcourt; 135 Awolowo Road/ Plot 808 Awolowo Road, Ikoyi; and 7, Hurnburn Street and 5, Raymond Street, Yaba, Lagos. The ex-minister, who was arrested since October 2, 2015, has been restricted to the UK with her probe said to be costing fortunes. ‘Temporary forfeiture of N14b jewellry’ The Federal High Court in Lagos on July 5 ordered the temporary forfeiture of 2,149 pieces of jewellery and a customised gold iPhone seized from Alison-Madueke. The items, valued at $40 million (about N14.4b), were recovered from her Lagos home. EFCC, in an ex-parte application, said the items were suspected to have been acquired with illicitly acquired funds. The jewelry, categorised into 33 sets, include “419 expensive bangles and 315 expensive rings. Others are 304 expensive earrings, 267 expensive necklaces, 189 expensive wristwatches and 174 expensive necklaces and earrings. The rest are 78 expensive bracelets, 77 expensive brooches, and 74 expensive pendants. EFCC said: “The respondent’s known and provable lawful income is far less than the properties sought to be forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria.” ‘Loss of Port Harcourt land’ On July 9, the court ordered the final forfeiture of a plot of land in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, belonging to Mrs Alison-Madueke. Justice Chuka Obiozor held that the property was illicitly acquired. EFCC said the land, measuring 7,903.71 – 8,029.585 square metres, is on Plot 9, Azikiwe Road, Old GRA (UAC Property on Forces Avenue), Port Harcourt. Neither Mrs  Alison-Madueke nor the other respondents – Donald Chidi Amangbo and a firm, Sequoyah Properties Limited – challenged the final forfeiture application. EFCC’s lawyer Ebuka Okongwu told the court that the interim order was published in The Nation of April 15, but that none of the parties filed any counter-affidavit. Ordering the forfeiture, Justice Chuka Obiozor held: “In the absence of any counter from the respondents, I have no reason not to grant this application. “The second and third respondents are not challenging the application and the first respondent (Diezani) opted out of the proceeding.” $4.760m penthouses lost On February 28, last year, ordered the final forfeiture of two penthouses valued at $4.760m allegedly belonging to Alison-Madueke. They are: Penthouse 21, Building 5, Block C, 11th floor (Bella Vista Estate) Banana Island, Ikoyi; and Penthouse 22, Block B (Admiralty Estate) also in Ikoyi, Lagos. Justice Mojisola Olatoregun said: “The second, third and fourth respondents have no objections to the application. I, therefore, have no hesitation in ordering a final forfeiture of the properties to the Federal Government.” Mrs Alison-Madueke, Donald Amangbo, Schillenburg LLC and Sequoyah Property Limited were the respondents. The commission said the companies in whose names the companies were acquired belong to the former minister. 58 houses gone On October 11, 2017, the Federal High Court in Lagos ordered the final forfeiture 58 houses belonging to Alison-Madueke. Justice Abdulazeez Anka held that the properties should be forfeited since no one came forward to claim or justify ownership after the interim forfeiture order was advertised. Mrs Alison-Madueke, Donald Chidi Amamgbo and three firms, Chapel Properties Limited, Blue Nile Estate Limited, Azinga Meadows Limited and Vistapoint Property Development Limited were the respondents. EFCC lawyer Ambrose Ozioko said the commission complied with the court’s directive to publish the interim forfeiture order in The Nation of August 28, 2017. Justice Anka held that since the forfeiture application was not challenged, he had no option than to grant it. N7.6b forfeited On August 28, 2017, the court ordered the final forfeiture of N7.6billion allegedly stolen and hidden by Mrs Alison-Madueke. Justice Anka held: “I’ve read the motion on notice seeking the final forfeiture of the sum of N7,646,700,000 reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activity. I am of the view that the application has merit and is hereby granted as prayed.” EFCC’s lawyer Rotimi Oyedepo said the money was part of “huge sums” allegedly diverted by Mrs Alison-Madueke from various subsidiaries of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). According to him, it was “fraudulently converted from NNPC by Mrs Alison-Madueke”. He said the commission published an advertorial after the court ordered the money’s temporary forfeiture, but no one came forward to claim ownership. $153m forfeited On February 16, 2017, Justice Muslim Hassan ordered the final forfeiture of $153million allegedly belonging to Allison-Madueke. EFCC said the money was laundered for the former minster. The judge ordered the forfeiture of unclaimed sums of N23.4billion, $5million as well as $40million (N9.08billion). EFCC said all the laundered money was $153million, some of which was converted to naira. “I am satisfied that all the conditions in Section 17 (1) of the Advance Fee Fraud and other Related Offences Act have been met,” the judge held. The section makes a property that is reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful act forfeitable to the Federal Government. Co-accused convicted Mrs Alison-Madueke’s name features in various money laundering cases, in which some of his co-accused have been convicted. For instance, On January 25, Justice Mohammed Idris sentenced a former Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Administrative Secretary in Kwara State Mr Christian Nwosu to seven year’s imprisonment. EFCC found him guilty of accepting bribe from Mrs Alison-Madueke. Also sentenced to seven years was a former INEC official Mr Tijani Bashir. EFCC said the convicts conspired to take possession of N264.880 million, which they reasonably ought to have known formed part of an unlawful act – gratification. Nwosu, who had initially pleaded guilty to receiving N30million bribe from Mrs Alison-Madueke, to rig the 2015 general election results at his arraignment on April 5, 2017, changed his plea to not guilty when he was re-arraigned. Justice Idris said: “Their actions were a disgrace to the institution and a threat to democracy …This country must not be allowed to descend into anarchy, despondency and political infamy by the conduct of an official of government.” Ex-INEC chiefs lose N387m On July 23, last year, Justice Hassan ordered the forfeiture of N387million found in the bank accounts of four former INEC officials. EFCC said the respondents allegedly benefited from N23billion which Mrs Alison-Madueke allegedly shared to influence the 2015 general election. They are Victor Chukwuani, Okesiji Adeniran, Gabriel Oke and Torgba Nyitse. Another INEC worker convicted On May 3, 2017, Justice Idris convicted an INEC employee Yisa Adedoyin for accepting over N70million bribe from Mrs Alison-Madueke to rig the 2015 general election results. Adedoyin pleaded guilty to the charge. Through a plea bargain with EFCC, Adedoyin paid N10million fine and forfeited a parcel of land measuring 100ft by 100 at Taoheed Road, Budo-Osho Village, Ilorin South Local Government Area in Kwara State. Oyedepo said EFCC received an intelligence in late 2004 that Mrs Alison-Madueke got gratification from various oil firms, such as Northern Bet Oil and Gas, Auctus Integrated Company and an oil magnate Adesanya Laitan. “The total sum received was $115,010,000. It was kept in the custody of a bank which received instructions to convert the sums to naira and distribute to the 36 states and the FCT,” the prosecutor said. Pending charges Mrs Alison-Madueke, who is said to be on the run, is named in the money laundering charges against former Federal Capital Territory minister Mrs Jumoke Akinjide and others, as well as those of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Mr Dele Belgore and former National Planning Minister Prof Abubakar Suleiman, among others. Other assets linked to Diezani EFCC claimed in a document that Mrs Alison-Madueke allegedly bought choice mansions in Abuja, Port Harcourt and Yenagoa in Bayelsa State. The document said: “On plot 10, Frederick Chiluba Close, in the serene, upscale Asokoro District of Abuja, lies a tastefully built and finished duplex. “In the compound, there are also a guest chalet, boys’ quarters, an elegant swimming pool, fully equipped sports gym and a host of other amenities. “Investigators have discovered that the property acquired by the ex-minister in December, 2009, at the cost of N400 million was never declared in any of the asset declaration forms filed by Alison-Madueke. “Also linked to the former minister in Abuja is a mini estate at Mabushi. The estate located on Plot 1205, Cadastral Zone B06, Mabushi Gardens Estate, houses 13 three-bedroom terrace houses, each with one bedroom en-suite maid’s quarters. “It was purchased on April 2, 2012 at the princely sum of N650 million. “In Aso Drive, Maitama, Abuja, Alison-Madueke reportedly acquired a six-bedroom en-suite apartment made up of three large living rooms, two-bedroom guest chalets, two bedroom boys quarters, two lock-up garages and a car park. It was bought on July 20, 2011 for N80 million. “Down South in Nigeria’s oil city of Port Harcourt, the former minister’s acquisitive appetite took her to Heritage Court Estate, located on Plot 2C, Omerelu Street, Diobu Government Residential Area, Phase 1 Extension, Port Harcourt. “The Estate, which is made up of 16 four-bedroom terrace duplexes is equipped with, among other facilities, a massive standby power generating set. Mrs Alison-Madueke did not blink as she shelled out N900 million for it on May 30, 2012, “In neighbouring Bayelsa State, an apartment with two blocks of flats, all en-suite, and with a maids quarters were also traced to her. The house located on Goodluck Jonathan Road, Yenagoa is sitting on a large expanse of land. The apartments have four living rooms, eight bedrooms and gold-plated furniture.” Her bid to return In October 2017, Mrs Alison-Madueke filed an application in the Belgore/Suleiman case, urging the court to compel the Federal Government to bring her back to Nigeria to face trial. Through her lawyer Dr Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN), she prayed the court to give her an opportunity to defend allegations against her in the charge in which she was named. EFCC opposed the application, contending that it was a bid by Mrs Alison-Madueke to escape justice in the UK. It added that she was released on bail in the UK, and that investigations had reached an advanced stage and her trial imminent then. Dismissing the application on November 1, 2017, Justice Rilwan Aikawa referred to EFCC’s counter affidavit in which it was stated that while in the United Kingdom, Mrs Alison-Madueke was invited by the Metropolitan Police. ackling the challenges Experts believe that an effective implementation of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, which took effect from June 20, would enhance asset recovery and extradition of those on the run abroad. The Act has provisions that enable anti-graft agencies to identify, trace, freeze, restrain, recover, forfeit and confiscate proceeds, property and other instrumentalities of crime; obtain and preserve computer data, and obtain/render assistance from/to other countries. It is believed that the Act would assist Nigeria in the repatriation of looted funds and other proceeds of crime stashed away in foreign countries, among others. Beyond mutual legal assistance’ Former international prosecutor Charles Adeogun-phillips said the issues around Mrs Alison-Madueke’s UK trial go beyond mutual legal assistance. He said: “I have practiced in the area of white collar criminal litigation in the UK, Nigeria and at international courts at The Hague for over 25 years. “I can assure you that the lack of cooperation is simply because the evidence being made available is not enough to support a prima facie case, let alone, capable of discharging the burden of proving the case beyond all reasonable doubt. “Magu is an investigator, not a prosecutor. In Nigeria, he makes decisions on which cases to investigate and prosecute despite the fact that he has no burden to discharge. “He needs to understand that those jurisdictions do not work the way we do here. “In the UK, the investigating authority such as the UK Crime Agency refers the results of all its investigations to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) for review. And it is only the Prosecutors at the CPS that can decide whether to prosecute a suspect or not. “And in so doing, there are certain criteria that they must follow because they are utilising public funds derived from UK tax payers to conduct these trials. “There has to be something in it for them also. So, they will examine if it is in the public interest to conduct such a trial.  Or they will examine if the cost of the trial can be recovered. “To that end, he needs to also understand that criminal trials in those jurisdictions cost a lot of money to conduct. “As such, no prosecuting authority will be willing to stick their necks out in that regard, unless there is a very reasonable prospect of not only securing a conviction against the defendant, but also the prospect of recovering and/or securing the forfeiture of substantial assets located in that jurisdiction, which could help towards offsetting the substantial cost of prosecuting the case in that jurisdiction.” Adeogun-Phillips added that Nigeria’s criminal justice sector situation was also a factor. “Those jurisdictions will not transfer suspects located in their jurisdictions to Nigeria because of the plain and obvious fact that there are serious concerns about the fair trial rights of suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings in Nigeria. “Magu has to understand that the world is watching us. He needs to understand that these jurisdictions have embassies in Nigeria that follow press reports of how we abuse the fair trial rights of suspects in Nigeria. “The well-publicised arbitrary arrest of suspects and in some cases even their lawyers do not speak to Nigeria as a jurisdiction that affords and/or guarantees fair trial rights in criminal proceedings.” The Founding Partner at Charles Anthony LLP also believes that the Federal Government’s reluctance to obey court orders cannot portray Nigeria as a jurisdiction where the rule of law prevails or is observed. He referred to President Muhammadu Buhari’s comment that national security overrides the rule of law. Adeogun-Phillips added: “Magu has to understand that it is the same evidence that he has collected in Nigeria and that he has shared with the UK and other places that has been found to be incapable of supporting criminal charges against suspects located in those jurisdictions. “So, if the evidence is not good enough for prosecutors in London, how can they be good enough for EFCC prosecutors here? So, therein lies the problem, not one of Mutual Legal Assistance or a lack thereof.” Way forward Adeogun-Phillips said the perceived delays regarding Mrs Alison-Madueke’s UK trial may not be unconnected with the two countries’ prosecutorial approaches. “I guess maybe because in Nigeria, investigators and prosecutors get away with shifting the burden of proof on the suspect or defendant to demonstrate their innocence. But that is not the law. “The law says that it is duty of prosecutor to prove the case and if the defendant is able to raise any doubt in the prosecutor’s case, such doubt must be resolved in favour of the defendant.  That is the current state of the law in the UK, Nigeria and before International Criminal Courts. “So, what Magu needs to do is to seek international financial help to train and build the capacity of his people so that they can operate based on these international standards. “There are plenty of international agencies and governments that I know will give the EFCC money to train their staff and will even fund international criminal prosecutors like me to train his staff. That is the kind of assistance that he needs. “If these governments see that he is working with the calibre of seasoned prosecutors that have a reputation and that they can identify with, they will give him all the assistance that he needs because they can see that he is proceeding in the right direction,” Adeogun-Phillips said. We must reform our system first’ Special Presidential Investigation Panel on the Recovery of Public Property Chairman/Special Assistant on Prosecutions to the President Chief Okoi Obono-Obla said Nigeria must get its act right first. He said: “We cannot rely on foreign nations to fight corruption for us or bring into book those who have pillaged and plundered our resources and common patrimony.These foreign nations are not really serious in helping us to fight corruption. “These foreign nations are playing politics as far the issue of fighting corruption is concerned! Their attitude is ambivalent and patronising. They say one thing and do the other. “They condemn corruption in the day but in the night they fraternities with corrupt people and provide safe havens for these corrupt leaders to keep their loot. “They then impose very technical and nearly impossible conditions when we want to take back looted resources taken to their countries. “My experience with a foreign nation which my Panel tried to partner with to bring into book those who took resources out of this country leaves much to desired. It taught me a lesson.All these mutual legal assistance agreements or treaties are mere platitude.” Speaking on the need for reforms, Obono-Obla said: “We must reform our systems, including judicial system and the law enforcement systems! The government must invest heavily in these sectors! “There must be judicial reforms! Brilliant, progressive, intellectually inclined, honest, industrious judges must be appointed.Judges of high probity must be appointed. The legal profession must also be reformed.” ‘We must develop our institutions’ Asked if there is anything Nigeria can do to force the hands of those holding onto the loot abroad, Obono-Obla said: “There is nothing Nigeria can do. You don’t expect Nigeria to start to meddle in the domestic affairs of foreign nations or in their judicial systems.Doing that will be at variance with international law. “Look no foreign nation can help us develop.We must make a conscious and determined effort to develop our institutions, systems and indeed our country. “The relationship with foreign western powers with countries in Africa, Asia and South America over the centuries has been paternalistic and exploitative. “China was not developed by foreign powers. Japan was not developed by foreign powers! Singapore was not developed by foreign powers! You have to develope in your own terms in line with your historical experiences and peculiarities. “So, there is nothing Nigeria can do to force the hands of these foreign powers. “Indeed, when you seek their help to prosecute looters who have fled from here to there, they tell you that you must first show that you have prosecuted them here,” Obono-Obla added. Shittu: treaties must be respected Law teacher and prosecutor Wahab Shittu said extradition is a legal, political and complicated process involving rigorous procedures. He added: “There is need to study the treaty regime between the UK and Nigeria, especially the Mutual Legal Assistance treaty between the two countries on criminal matters. “ls there a formal extradition request from Nigeria to the UK authorities on Dieziani by the AGF? If yes, have we fully complied with the treaty arrangements and provisions? Have we furnished the requisite details and particulars to the UK authorities? “Has the UK authorities responded to our request and in what manner and specifics? ls there a reluctance from the UK authorities to respond to our request and if so on what grounds? Are such grounds for alleged refusal in the context of the provisions of the treaties? “I raise these posers because treaty obligations are binding on parties who are signatories under international law based on the principle of pacta sunt servanda, meaning all agreements must be respected.” He expressed the hope that the UK authorities will do the needful in due course. “The general view is that the UK legal system works compared to the delays associated with our justice delivery system here. “Generally, mutual legal assistance treaties on criminal matters cover broad areas, such as intelligence gathering, information sharing, technical assistance, international cooperation and prosecution. “And given the international attitude, which regards corruption as a crime against humanity, such mutual assistance treaties are taken very seriously where there is proven evidence and particulars of corruption,” he said. 