Sir: The alarming insecurity situation coupled with the multifarious socio-economic cum political challenges confronting Nigeria has indeed created the atmosphere of uncertainty and its attendant catastrophic consequences for the nation. The country is presently on the brink and precariously sitting on the keg of gunpowder which might explode unless our political leaders take decisive action to stem the current slide to precipice by urgently dousing the escalating tension in the land. Recently some highly respected leaders such as former presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan including some eminent and highly revered personalities such as the Nobel Laureate, Wole Soyinka and former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Emeka Anyaoku as well as religious leaders also added their powerful voices to the unprecedented challenges and other socio-economic and political crisis confronting the nation. President Buhari is urged to hearken to the advice of these patriotic leaders and collaborate with them to find urgent solution to the present seemingly intractable problems which might tear the country apart if not handled with utmost urgency and collective wisdom. The Buhari administration must not portray itself as being completely overwhelmed by the magnitude of the challenges but must rather demonstrate its capacity and the political will to deal decisively with the ugly situation by pulling the bull by the horn. The lingering crisis occasioned by the rampaging herdsmen and notorious bandits terrorizing the nation,  the spate of kidnappings and wanton killings  across the nation, the unending Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast among other security challenges are danger signals that the nation is on the verge of collapse. It is not an overstatement to emphasize that things have really fallen apart even as mutual mistrust, suspicion, deep rooted animosity and unprecedented level of disunity among the various ethnic nationalities in the country have reached their crescendo and awaiting the inevitable to happen. To further compound the already messy and disturbing situation in the country is what could rightly be described as reckless and ill-conceived threats by various ethnic leaders particularly from the North who recently ordered their people in the southern parts of the country to immediately relocate to the North. These are ominous signs that Nigeria’s cup has already overflowed and only God can prevent the impending doom which might ultimately lead to the dismemberment of the country.  Enugwu-Ukwu, Anambra State.