Felachamp Promotion, managers of fast-rising professional boxer, Tunde Olojede has said that plans are in top gear for the Nigerian to have his European boxing fight in France or any other European country. This much was disclosed by the Chief Executive Officer, CEO of the promotion outfit, Oladimeji Akinde in a chat with NationSport from his base in France. According to Akinde, a former Lagos State boxing champion, the outfit decided to sign Olojede, who campaigns in the Super Bantam category because of the huge boxing potentials buried in him. Olojede, 4fights, 3 wins and 1 loss (2Kos) joined Felachamp Promotion after fulfilling the required standard and he is now ready to show the stuff he is made of. Akinde stated that they have drawn up a routine for the professional pugilist that would make him a world champion in no distant time. Olojede may not be a popular figure in the professional boxing circle in Nigeria or Africa for now, but Akinde believes with the kind of plans Felachamp Promotion has for him then his opponents would be scared to fight him in the boxing ring. “We have an addition into our fold, Olojede has signed for us and we are ready and he is raring to go, he has given us his words that he is battle ready for any boxer in his weight category that comes his way, as it is our tradition in our company, we don’t just any professional boxer we also innate qualities and that was what we found in him. By the time we finish our plans with him every other Nigerian boxer would want to sign up with us,” Akinde told NationSport. Highlighting some of the plans they have for the pound-for-pound professional boxer, Akinde hinted that Olojede would be handed the opportunity to hone his boxing skills in some European countries, have three more fights before eying the national title in his weight category. Continuing, Akinde posited that the dearth of professional boxing promotions is why Nigerian professional boxers are finding it very hard to make headlines, “Professional boxers in Nigeria are struggling, it is not their fault but that of the promoters. They hardly stage boxing fights in the country and to make matters worse, if you are a professional boxer not based in Lagos State, nobody would know or remember that you are in existence.” He, however, urged more corporate bodies to come to the aid of professional boxing in Nigeria, which has been in the Intensive Care Unit, ICU. “Nigerian professional boxers need more sponsors the few companies staging boxing promotions are trying but we need more in the country nothing stops the Nigerian Boxing Board of Control, NBB of C to be sanctioning fights on a weekly basis, it is for the good of these boxers,” he enthused. 