Today is one of those rare clinic days when a care giver turns up his or her prescriptions pad and the readers of this columns may kill many birds with one stone as it were. The answers to their enquiries in this presentation can not be exhaustive. In fact,  hardly is there  any answer to any question that is a mother of all answers. The care giver’s prescription pad is, therefore, at best a reflection of how his or her mind is working within a template of circumstances. QUESTION… (1) Two women reported vagina candidiasis. One was young and single, the other married and in middle age. The single girl in her secret place, extruded a butter colour discharge which did not smell offensively. She under took  Laboratory test which we’re suggested to rule out human papiloma virus (HPV), which may cause far more serious problems than candida, yeast or fungi may inflict on this and other regions . she was happy the trouble was from Candida . But by the time the test result came, her vaginal itch had progressed to urinary pain. She was on a low health budget. Her situation reminded her care giver of:  THE LAW OF UNATTAINABLE  TRINITY. The law established that perfection is hardly achievable in human endeavour because three basic ingredients required for it are hardly ever available in the right mix. The ingredients are: That means, for example, all the skills engineers on earth with all the money on earth at their disposal cannot build a 25-storey building in one day. Where all the skills on earth are assembled with little money to work with, what can they achieve in one month? The older woman and her husband are perplexed. They  had patronised, one after the other, therapies which did not appear to work for them. Sexual relationship was an ordeal. She was easily bruised and experienced pain. Urination, too, was painful. Lately, the, lower abdomen, too, was roaring with pain. Sometimes, blood was sighted in the urine. She was advised to see her doctor for a pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) assessment. Surprisingly, to the husband, all investigations have cleared her of Candida infection and he wondered if this was possible. For the young girl on a low health budget, the bird’s nest had to be the bird’s size. She was advised to try; Aloe Gelly is an aloe vera leaf extract blessed with anti-microbial curative properties. It is to be mixed with oregano oil. Where the budget is larger, the super or extra strength oregano oil may be preferred. Where the budget is kinder still, the amalgam lotion or cream of these prescriptions is  used as a douche and left on overnight, with a medicated panty liner worn over the night brief. In the morning, feminnle Wash rinses  off the cream and debris of  “annihilated ” candida. It is advisable to wear a panty liner over the day brief, to prevent discharges, if any,  occurs,on the brief which may cause reinfection of the vagina. After the “war” on candida for two or four weeks, some women prefer one or two weeks of the insertion of vitamin E soft gel to not only rehydrate the tissue but to also promote tissue regeneration were any damage had taken place. At the end of the tunnel, the PROBIOTIC should be in waiting. It is an assemblage of friendly bacteria which would repopulate the vagina with its kith and kindred to overcome “enemies’ of this region afterwards. The case of the older woman appeared more complex, with urinary tract infection joining the league of troubles. That explained why Amazon  A-F was the star war head on the prescription pad. It is a complex of  about eight or more Amazon forest tree barks which has displayed vast anti- microbial activities against candida in clinical tests. Even in the forests,fungi, the family to which candida belongs as a yeast form have no effects on these trees. Thus, when candida toxins or candida itself is wreaking havoc in the blood stream (Allergies e.tc.), Brain, (frogginess, headache etc), lungs (asthma etc), intestine (bloating, pain, indigestion, cancer etc) the care giver hardly fails to lob Amazon A-F from the prescription pad. To complete this effort, mango seed extract and Golden seal root may be in the recipe. Indian women, for example, douche with mango seed extract as a  contraceptive before sex. If mango seed extract will killed in_ coming sperm, it would also kill resident germs. Bladder infection in this case is not to be underplayed. For the germs  having a field day in the bladder may soon congregate in the kidneys and torment them. Corn silk is back in season now. For whoever can go through the trouble of harvesting and drying them without compromising the biological quality, corn slik is a good addition to a regime for urinary tract infection (UTIs). So are Cranberry and Marsh mallow.  QUESTION… (2)  A woman wanted to know if herbal medicine could cure her “HSG  blocked tubes’ challenge. Like uterine firbroids, blocked tubes are headaches for many women who ignorantly or carelessly allow vagina infections or PID to get out of hand. When the tubes are blocked, an egg maybe unable to descend from the ovaries to be fertilised there and to be later implanted in the uterus as pregnancy. Luckily for many women, this problem responds to anti-inflammatory, anti- oxidant and enzyme therapies. Nigeria’s “hot weather” economy has kept many of the useful  plants medicine out of the reach of the poor. Neprinol used to be a star enzymes  weapon  for creating thorough fare in blood tubes and for desolving growth such as uterine fibroids throughout the body. These are proteolytic enzymes taken with meal, these enzymes aid digestion. Taken between meals, the immune system uses them to fight systems foreign to the body such as tumours and congestion. One of them is PAPAIN, which is found in pawpaw tree sap, sap of the unripe fruit, leaves, black seed of the fruit and, to some extent, in the ripe fruit. BROMELAIN comes from the woody stem of the pineapple. Worm silk provides yet another, SERRA PEPTASE, with which it dissolved its rock’ hard cocoon “womb” when it is matured to emerge from this casing. Amla has demonstrated help in inflammatory conditions as presented in some blocked tubes. Ashoka, Yarrow, is a great healer of female troubles. But on this prescription pad , the care giver’s  preferences were The ideal of camphorated  castor oil came from EDGAR CACEE, that legendary Christian seer and healer who made most of his diagnosis and prescriptions in trances. He suggested that camphor be ground into powder and mixed with castor oil to form camphorated castor oil. This is to be massage deep into uterine fibroids and PID areas or such other areas which need help. Edgar Caycee suggested that a heating pad be placed over such areas. Literally speaking, this helpsd to drive into blood circulation -the camphorated castor oil, which by itself, promote blood circulation. In our time, there is less need to grind camphor to powder and add it to castor oil to extract camphor oil. We now have castor oil and camphor oil which can be mixed for use right away. We may have no electric heating pad in Nigeria. Were is constant power supply, anyway?  But we improvise that with the age-old  hot water bottle. The clean woman is a device inserted into the vagina like Tampax  about two or three days after the menstral cycle and left on for about five days during which a herbal cleanser is pumped in with the aid of an applicator. This therapy is reported to clean up the vagina, cervix, uterus and the tubes, and sometimes even stimulate sluggish ovaries and blocked tubes. Funyan kang pill does the job as well. Its major benefits are improved blood circulation and oxygenation throughout the pelvic region where these organs are located. QUESTION …(3) A gentleman who was  fighting colon cancer and had regained near normal bowel motion using  intestinal cleansing herbs and organic coffee Enema to detoxify sighted blood in his urine. He had been advised of some antioxidant herbal supplements  to include in his anti-cancer  natural therapies. But blood in urine appeared more urgent. There was as yet no report by the urologist  of any links to bladder infection or to bleeding from the prostate gland. Thus, the concern of the care giver at this point was to stop the bleeding. Shepherd purse stops  bleeding anywhere in the body. But if did not cross the mind in this case. Diatom (diamatoceus earth), rich in silica, is a good candidate for the job. But it is now as scare as gold. It mops infectious agents and uses its almost 90 percent silica content to strengthen connective tissue through out the body. It is possible stinging nettle and horse tail, also silica endowed, can do the job as well. The jobs go, however, to  Nimosa Pudica and Sangra do Grado. Nimosa is an extremely  sensitive plant which has demonstrated well respected astringent abilities and stops bleeding, thereby. Recently, it stopped skin itch in a bed-ridden police man who also profited from its anti-microbial and digestion improving support. He had been down with failed digestion which produced feaces in pallets, itching and weeping skin eruption. Not only had the skin itch begun to abate within days of nimosa’s activity, the moisty skin eruptions  have begun to  disappear as well. Its been a long time since I was privileged to see Sangra do Grado at  work. If my memory serves me right, it was popular in the Amazon region for neutralising the poison of snake bites and, later, as an indefatigable HIV fighter. Its abilities to stop bleeding is not in doubt as well.  QUESTIONS… (4) One woman and several men reported either low or high blood pressure. Many people have heard of the havocs which elevated blood pressure may impact on the organ such as damage to vision, the liver or the kidneys, or to the over working and over burdened heart.  But few people appeared to recognise that low blood pressure may kill faster than high blood pressure. High blood pressure worries many men, perhaps because of the anti-hypertensive drugs which their doctors give them. This is because these drugs deminish penile erection and their libido as well. Dangerous low blood pressure may be the result of beta-blocker  eyes drops used also in glaucoma  and some other eye diseases to lower eye (occular) pressure. These drops block the absorption  of calcium which is thought to calcify eye muscles and inhibit fluid drainage function,  the result of hypertension.  Blocking calcium out of the heart muscles, however, may inhibit their contractive activity and produce over relaxed heart and arteries. In emergencies, adding salt preferably sea salt in a glass of water and drinking the solution may help to raise the blood volume and increase blood pressure. Carrot juice also raises blood pressure, although eating the whole carrot does not appear to do so. Bean pollen raises blood pressure as well. In low and high blood pressure, there are standard plant medicines considered to be good for all seasons. Most  of them are said to be ADAPTOGENIC. This means they raise the body from low gear to middle gear or drop the body from high gear to middle gear. As the care giver suggested, these include Hawthorn dialates the heart arteries to make more blood flow through them, thereby reducing hypertension. It  also improves the mechanical pump action of the heart at little or no stress. CoQ10 energies the heart. Any wonder that the largest concentration of CoQ10 in the body is in the heart? Therefore, It is advisable to eat the heart if you must eat meat, the care giver advised. Selenium acts like Vitamin E which improves oxygenation and strengthens weak muscles. Like Lecithin and Omega – 3 fats, Vitamin E helps to emulsify cholesterol in the blood stream. High cholesterol blood content, especially of the highly  damaging low Density Lipoprotein  (LDL) is the reason some doctors add statin drugs to anti_ hypertension protocols. These drugs unfortunately not only  help to reduce the heart rate in order to save the heart from stress, weakness and collapse. They may also block the production and absorption of CoQ10 throughout the body, including the heart. Thus, de-energised and forced to reduce pumping rate in order to save it from overwork, it pumps blood to the male organ less than it requires for effective penile turgidity and staying power. This gives serious concern in the other room.  It is, therefore, not suppressing that when hypertensive men even in their seventies stand before the shelves in a health food store, they think less of their hearts but more of erectile function. Some of them even jovially ask young female shop keepers for help. It is only when the relationships between erectile dysfunction and anti-cholesterol and ant- hypertensive drugs have been well explained to them that they begin to think about Hawthorn, CoQ10, Magnesium, Omega -3, Vitamin E, Lecithin and others or propitiary  blends such as  AMAZON HEART SUPPORT. Heart sufferers and non-sufferers alike often under place the value of Vitamin B-Complex in heart health. Vitamin B -1 and Garlic have been found to help cases of enlargement of the heart, especially when consume.