The All Progressives Congress in Osun State has said Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, earned his ministerial nomination to his exceptional leadership and performance for eight years as the state governor. The party described his two-term tenure as governor in Osun State as historic, saying Aregbesola had earlier demonstrated his political and administrative prowess years as a successful Lagos State Commissioner for Works. In a statement by its spokesperson, Kunle Oyatomi, the party said: “We hail Aregbesola as a Hero and denounce those who deny his historic transformation of Osun from a backward state to a pace-setting progressive environment as losers and mean-spirited. It is not party patronage that has given Ogbeni Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola his new ministerial opportunity to serve the Nigerian people. “It is predominantly Ogbeni’s performance in Osun between 2010 and 2018 that has made him a Minister.
Osun salutes him; he is our Hero!! “Besides, It is most especially gratifying that regardless of the monstrously evil attacks of lies and demonization of the person and actions of Ogbeni, orchestrated by the PDP and other hateful opponents, his personality did not diminish and his unparalleled performance escalated in recognition locally and internationally. “What stood out about Aregbesola in the midst of this opposition ‘carnage’ was that the worse the attacks got, the more spectacular his achievements as governor became. Not only that, the PDP-led Federal government at the time paid attention and acknowledged the transformation in Osun. “Also, the British Parliament in London noticed and invited Ogbeni to get a glimpse of how this unusual leader was making a grand success from poverty!!
The United Nations was so impressed about what Aregbesola was doing on many fronts that it recommended the Osun model of feeding school children to countries in the Continent of Africa!! “That is what a leadership asset is made of and that’s what qualifies Ogbeni for a higher role in governance in Nigeria today. Aregbesola’s triumph in Osun was a huge scale up on his record in Lagos as Commissioner. Today, as a Minister in Abuja the expectations are high that this exceptional politician will break records.”