Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, Monday condemned the continuous killing of Nigerians in South Africa. He warned that further attack on Nigerians in South Africa would no longer be condoned. Lawan expressed concern that about 118 Nigerians have so far lost their lives in different attacks over the years, out of which 13 were by South African police. A statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mohammed Isa, said Lawan spoke when he hosted the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr. Bobby Moroe. Moroe and his delegation paid the visit to brief the Senate leadership on his government’s investigations to unravel the causes of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and steps being taken to stop such attacks. The meeting, according to the Senate President became pertinent considering the incessant attacks on Nigerians residing in South Africa. Lawan said: “We in the parliament must speak and prevent any further killings. These killings must stop. This is the era of social media where corpse of a victim may spark violence that may go beyond the control of government. “The South African government must as a matter of urgency, do whatever it takes to protect the lives and property of Nigerians living there, just as Nigerian government remained committed to the safety of South Africans residing here and their investments. “I believe we have faced enough, we will no longer take it anymore. We want to write the names of Nigerians killed, and the South African parliament must act fast to put a stop to this menace. “Over the years, 118 Nigerians have been killed, while 13 out of these were killed by South African police”. He recalled the enormous contributions of Nigeria to South Africa during the apartheid rule, adding that, “we must establish events leading into these killings, including the recent one of Mrs. Elizabeth Chukwu, who was killed in her hotel room.” Nigeria, he said, would no longer condone such killings. He urged South African government to as a matter of responsibility protect Nigerians residing there. While commending the High Commissioner for the updates, Lawan said, “The update on the cause of late Mrs. Chukwu’s death is heartwarming. It is a sign that something has been done in this regards.” Mr. Moroe was said to have expressed regret over the killings of Nigerians and extended his country’s condolences to the families of the victims. The envoy was quoted to have said that an inquest had been instituted to investigate all cases of xenophobic attacks in the country. The inquest, he said, would reveal the cause of the menace and find solutions across board. He reiterated the commitment of South African Government and its law enforcement agencies to get to the root of the matter while bringing to book perpetrators of the attacks. Moroe said, “Our government will continue to be committed to good relationship with Nigeria. Your sentiment has gone deep into our heart, and you will be happy that the same sentiment has been our concern in South Africa. “On behalf of the government of South Africa, we express our sincere condolences to Nigerian government for this unfortunate incident.”