Former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Deputy National Chairman Chief Olabode George spoke with reporters on why the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be dissolved and other national issues, MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE reports. Why are you calling for the dissolution of INEC? I want INEC scrapped, so we can start all over again. There is no half measure to the remedy. I am an engineer of 50 years above; when you have a smart card and you go to a place where they request for your card, when the card is inserted into a machine, they will clear you. You can then vote. But today we go through lot of stories; telling us that they are still test running the system without heading somewhere. My suggestion is that they should clear the whole thing and start all over again. We have another four years now, we can invite top experts who gave the model to come and teach us about it. In India, about 800 million people voted; mind you that is not the total population of India but the voters. I was so keen and watching the ongoing election every day. It took them two weeks and at the end of the day, the Prime Minister was declared. The government is rolling way without any protest; their new leader even attended the G20 meeting. Now, one major concern for all Nigerians, irrespective of political affiliation, is how to get the electoral process working. I am ready for any discussion concerning INEC. A situation where the final result of election is being determined through the court process cannot be the best way out. I am ready to challenge Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. I am not a professor, but we can meet in the worst location, the burial ground even at 3 am in the morning. I will be there to discuss with him. This system has collapsed; in the 21th Century, we are still doing manual collation. They use motorcycle, molue and Marwa tricycle to dispatch electoral materials. I am shocked and this thing is global. People are looking and watching us; they are wondering what is happening in the country. The proposal for Ruga settlements has received lots of criticism. What is your take on the matter? Let me use Lagos State for the example. In Lagos, the only thing we have here is the lagoon; this has made it a fishing community and you hardly see any serious agriculture. So, when you bring your wares, you negotiate with the people, if the people want to buy from you, they buy. If you make enough money and you want to build a house, you are free to go ahead. There is negotiation between Lagosians and those who came with their wares. So, whatever deal that is desirable must go through negotiation. Veering out of this formal pattern will only trigger crisis. Already, people are complaining of the Fulani army of occupation. The government is planning a policy that will compel every state to provide land to enable Fulani settle for herding. But why is Oga trying to tow this line? When we had for President Goodluck Jonathan, who is an Ijaw man, why didn’t he replicate fish ponds in every state for the Ijaws who are predominantly fishermen? When Baba Obasanjo was there, why did he not enforce that everywhere must have farm settlements for his people? I don’t agree that government should get involved; let the negotiation be between the real owners of the land and the visitors. Land is vested in the state governments and not Federal Government. So, if they want to do animal husbandry, the business should be between the land owners and the visitors. But, to enforce it will be arbitrary. Again, I don’t think this is the right time to be involved in things like this. Everybody is now suspicious of one another; instead of the gap between the various tribes closing up, it is getting wider. That is my fear, because my background is military, where we don’t have tribal sentiments. When we go for operation, we don’t look for Yoruba man, Ibo man or Hausa/Fulani man to go for certain operations. Once you are in the military, the spirit of camaraderie is fully observed. That is what this nation must be thriving to achieve, but there is so much distrust and fear in the land. Irrespective of where you come from, there are three major things in life; you have no control over the day you are born, the tribe you are born into and the day you will die. You don’t have control over these things, so what is our problem? How do you know who you will be when you reincarnate? Why are we creating problem, instead of closing them? Let there be togetherness, nationalism and see each other as brother. Government says the reason for the settlement is to douse the tension between farmers and herders… Implementing Ruga will blow it out of control. But maybe the tension would not have existed, if all things had been going on well. But the suspicion now is high and people are also asking why it is it coming now. Why did the Ijaw people not replicate fish ponds everywhere, when they were in the saddle? Why did the Yoruba not replicate the plantation of cocoa everywhere when Obasanjo was in office? You may have a good intension, but it is heavily rejected by the people from the South. The best way to do it, because we are in a democratic society, is to call for national town hall meeting. The governors will nominate the elders, obas, youths, women from each state. At the meeting, people will ask questions and deliberate on the germane issues that are threatening our unity. The suspicions will be rolled back to give room for convivial society. It is better to jaw-jaw than to war-war. The votes from the people put you there. In a normal civilian society, order should be from bottom top and not the other way.