Youths have been advised to be more involved in national development plans and programmes to help facilitate rapid growth in the country. Chief Executive Officer Core Media Services Olajide Adediran regretted that attention to youths on national development have not been sufficient, adding that more need to be done considering their role in any society. Adediran made this call during a presentation on the topic: The challenges of leadership and national development in Nigeria, during a two-day advanced leadership and management training programme for students running Masters of Public Administration (MPA), Lagos State University (LASU). Speaking at the Aderemi Makanjuola lecture theatre of LASU, Adediran bemoaned the lack of emotional intelligence among youths, advising them to start their leadership career from their respective communities. He made references to the first premier of the Western Region, the late Obafemi Awolowo, late Moshood Abiola, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, among others on how they utilised their youthful ages to find solutions to challenges they encountered during their time. “If you cannot influence people positively, there is no reason to lead them. Some leaders in Nigeria today lack emotional intelligence. “Young people like you play a crucial role in the prospect for development and that is why you should be involved in national development plans. “Young people should be involved at all stages of the projects and programmes including envisioning and planning process, adult mentors, education and allies which are needed to support young people’s efforts and enhance their measures to address poverty and unemployment. “It is a long journey and a long gap because as a nation, we are still battling with bad roads, poor water, and quality education which are something that should have been done for so long. Until we cross that path and have people get involved, development cannot just happen. The gap of involvement is there and we need the government to allow people cover that gap for us to witness that development,” he said. In his opening remarks, vice chancellor LASU Prof Olanrewaju Fagbohun said leadership is about addressing issues affecting the people and finding lasting solutions to them, as well as developing the country to compete with others. Fagbohun, who was represented by his vice ( Academic), Prof Olumuyiwa Noah said: “It is imperative this training is coming at the beginning of a new administration in Lagos. We can say it anywhere today that Lagos State is different from other states in Nigeria because of the kind of leadership and development witnessed over the years,” Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE the Dean, Faculty of Management Science, Prof. Babatunde Yusuf, described followership challenge as one of the major problems militating national development. “In Nigeria today, we are having a problem of leadership; but today’s lecture shows we are also having followership problem. There is need to change our orientation and out culture if we want to move forward. National development cannot be achieved by relying on the leaders alone but we have to force them to get it right. “For us to get things right, the followers must also get things right because leaders emerge from them. That is why LASU will continue to contribute to discussions that will aide economic development and growth of Nigeria,” he added. Acting Head of Department, Public Administration, Dr. Omoniyi Ajulo also recommended transformational leadership as the solution to national development.