Ultra-view display and auto pop-up selfie camera are the hottest trends to watch for this season! Huawei launched today the latest edition of the Y series, the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019. This phone has some of the most amazing features ever: An ultra-view display and auto pop-up selfie camera plus other premium features usually found in flagship devices. The phone is trendy and powerful. Let us dive right into four features that we love on the HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019. Truly bezel-less design and massive screen HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 features the most unique form of bezel-less design, HUAWEI Ultra Fullview Display. The screen measures 6.59 inches and it instantly catches your eye, being utterly different from what we’ve been used to – it is free of notches, holes or sliders.  Designed to allow a maximum view, it caters to those demanding users who won’t settle for an average screen when it comes to gaming, watching movies or simply browsing through your favorite apps. A cool auto pop up camera: What made this phone comes with such a big viewing experience is the new auto pop-up camera. It is 16MP and it is invisible to the eye and hides within the body. It is automatically activated when you want to take a selfie and it rises within one second.  On the back of the device there are three cameras: 16MP + 8MP + 2MP. Both the 16MP + 8MP enable you to capture images that are clear with top quality and high contrast. The 16MP lens comes with an F/1.8 aperture so extra light comes into the sensor so that you can capture vivid and colorful pictures even in dark environments. While the 2MP camera works in tandem with the 16MP to provide you with pictures that have a lifelike depth of field. Outstanding performance With a huge 4000mAh battery, you can play games and stream videos for an extended period of time without having to worry about your battery dying or needing charging breaks. At the core of this device, is Kirin 710F chipset, which provides your phone with an excellent performance and increases power efficiency.  And to understand your needs from the phone and allocate resources accordingly, EMUI 9 learns and analyzes users’ behavior for a smoother and more optimized experience while using the phone. In addition, HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 comes with 4GB RAM and 128GB ROM so there is enough storage for all your pictures , videos and any other data you might want to store in your phone. Gaming experience from the future To maximize the joy of having a big screen, HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 brings you a gaming experience right from the future. So you can identify your gaming scenarios and match them with real-life sensations, like reloading or waves from an explosion. Price and Availability The HUAWEI Y9 Prime 2019 is now available on Jumia, 3CHUB, Pointek and SLOT stores nationwide in three colors: Midnight Black, Sapphire Blue and Emerald Green for just NGN83,900.