A coalition of youths in Bayelsa State has contributed N21million to enable a former President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Udengs Eradiri, purchase the nomination and expression of interest forms of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The youths said they were determined to ensure that Eradiri, who is the Commissioner for Youths in the state, contest the primary election of the PDP and win the party’s ticket ahead of the November governorship election in Bayelsa. Speaking in Yenagoa, the state capital, the youths led by Johnnny Jonathan said they were disposed to having youth in the mould of Eradiri as their next governor insisting that it was their time to take over leadership in the state. Jonathan said all the youth groups in Bayelsa were united in the project to make Eradiri the governorship candidate of PDP adding that to show their seriousness, they contributed money to buy the ticket for him. He said the youths would accompany Eradiri to purchase the forms at the PDP Headquarters in Abuja before weekend. Jonathan said the action was in line with the promise of Governor Seriake Dickson to hand over leadership to a youth in the interest of the state. He said the best legacy the governor would bequeath to posterity was to ensure that a youth like Eradiri emerged the flag bearer of the PDP to enable the party have easy victory at the poll. He said: “Bayelsa youths have come of age. We are now more responsible and ready to take over leadership. The next governorship election is our turn. Our moment has come and we don’t want to joke with this opportunity. “Therefore, after our various meetings and consultations, we came to a conclusion that we need a youth-friendly governor to succeed our amiable Governor Dickson. The governor has over the years shown interests in the affairs of youths in Bayelsa. He has done his best. “But it is our firm belief that the best gift he can give to youths in Bayelsa is to support one of us to pick the governorship ticket of the PDP in the forthcoming primary election. Our preferred candidate is the former IYC President and Commissioner for Youths, Udengs Eradiri. “Eradiri has shown capacity in leadership. Having served in many capacities in youth leadership, Eradiri understands our problems and has the right disposition, temperament, intelligence, knowledge and skills to solve our problems. “We know that as a believer in the Restoration ideals of the government, Eradiri will consolidate on the achievements of our incumbent governor. We have what it takes to win election for PDP because as youths we control over 60 per cent of the voting population. “To demonstrate our seriousness, we have raised money through contributions to enable Eradiri buy the forms of the PDP. We are calling on Eradiri not reject our offer and to ensure that he buys the forms before the weekend”.