Assistant Comptroller-General of Customs in charge of Enforcement, Investigation and Inspection Aminu Dahiru led the destruction of N14.8 billion worth of tramadol in Sagamu, Ogun State. He spoke with reporters on the sidelines of the event. Muyiwa Lucas was there. How do you react to the destruction of prohibited drugs by Customs? What you see here is a product of teamwork. We are cooperating with ourselves to fight crimes and overcome the illicit trade in prohibited drugs. This is one way to protect the lives of our citizens from destruction and save the society from the many dangers of criminality associated with trade and consumption of illicit drugs. What you are seeing here is a product of uncompromising enforcement coupled with diligent investigations by customs officers from various commands where these seizures were made. In the course of our anti smuggling assignment, some of our men came under attack, rejected bribes, got wounded and some even died in the line of duty. We are not deterred. We are forging ahead and will remain resolute in this battle against drug smuggling and any form of smuggling. By the grace of God, we shall continue to be victorious. For this destruction, I am congratulating members of my committee for carrying out this national duty. Because this is beyond state, it is a national duty, service to humanity and as service to humanity don’t forget, it’s service to God. I sincerely appreciate them and I equally appreciate the Controller-General of Customs as well as Director-General of the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) for giving us the entire enabling environment to carry out this assignment. At the initial stage, we were scared that we may not be able to do it, but with the assistance of other sister agencies like Nigerian Army, we have made history and I want to congratulate Nigerians for being part of this. I said sometime ago that Nigeria Customs Service has promised hence forth to be celebrating Nigeria at every moment and this is exactly what we are doing. Is this the first time you are destroying drugs of this magnitude under this administration? Yes. This is the first time we are destroying such an amount of tramadol. If these seizures were not made and dangerous drugs of this quantity were allowed into the society, we will have huge problems on our hands as a people and a country. How would you describe the synergy between Customs and other regulatory agencies? It is very good and has continued to improve. The synergy that has been existing between us and other sister agencies has been commendable. There is this cooperation that where a regulatory body is concerned with a seizure or importation, Customs draw their attention to it. When  we  have a seizure or consignment meant for them we normally hand it over to them. For example, when we seized items that have anything to do with the ecosystem, we hand over to the National Environmental Standards Regulatory and Enforcement Agency (NESREA), likewise any hard drugs like marijuana, we hand over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Now this is for NAFDAC to regularise. So that is why we are partnering with them for this destruction. The drugs being destroyed today is a meagre volume compared with the cumulative quantity we have been handing over to NAFDAC and NDLEA over the years. Are these all the drugs seized nationwide or your committee has more seizures in other parts of the country? We are starting the destruction here because of the high volume of seizures made in the South West where a lot of Customs activities take place. We shall be doing similar destructions in Port Harcourt, Kaduna and Bauchi where we have Customs zones. Residents and stakeholders in these areas should await our invitations soon. Even as we are here, some of our anti-smuggling officers have been receiving threats for their exploits. Smugglers of these drugs are unhappy because we stopped them from making money through destruction of lives.