Ohanaeze Youths Council have called for the unconditional release of the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria, El-Zakzaky and other detainees who have been granted bail by various courts across the country. The group made this known through a press statement by its President-General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro. It urged President Muhammadu Buhari release Ezakzaky to avoid the possible eruption of religious war. The group expressed fear that the continuous protests by the Shiites may lead to greater violence if the government is not quick about averting it. The statement reads in part: “Federal Government should as a matter of urgency release all political detainees granted bail by any Court of Competent Jurisdiction especially the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria, El Zazaky before the clash between the Shiites and security agents snowball into full scare war. The group feared that the country may divide if care is not taken. They said: “What happened in Abuja on 22nd July 2019 if care is not taken will repeat itself and Nigeria might disintegrate through civil disobedience and disturbances. The violent Protest of Shiites in Abuja has opened the eyes of other groups who may wish to follow the recent antecedents of Islamic Movement in Nigeria violent Protest, and it is a threat to the unity of Nigeria. “With banditry in the North West, Boko Haram in the North East, armed herdsmen terrorizing the Middle belt and Southern Nigeria, and OPC, Biafra Agitators and Niger Delta Militia all waiting for the herdsmen, ultimatums and Counter Ultimatums of Northern Ethnic Youths vs Southern Ethnic Youths, presidency needs to urgently address these issues and release El zakzaky unconditionally with others or President Muhammadu Buhari cannot Survive fighting all insurgents in every zone in the Country. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth council worldwide is in support for the 2019 National Youth Dialogue/Confab packaged by Nigeria ethnic Nationalities Youth leaders where the issues threatening the unity of the country will be addressed and solutions proffer. We urge the Federal Government to tow the part progress and Support every peaceful means to avert all these insecurity situations in the country”, the youths said. Ohanaeze also applauded President Mohammadu Buhari for the appointment of Uche Ogar(Abia), Chris Ngige and Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra) Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi) Geoffrey Onyema Enugu),Emeka Nwajuba (Imo) and Chibuike Amaechi (Rivers) into his cabinet. Ends