Ondo state government has reaffirmed its commitment to providing support for its residents as it partnered Facebook through its partners, 360 media to organize a capacity building training on digital marketing for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) owners in the state. At the training on “Social Media Marketing” held on Tuesday in Akure, the Ondo state capital,participants, mostly youths were trained on the advantages of internet marketing through the social media to grow their businesses and achieve their dreams. A Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on innovation and partnership, Joel Ogunsola said the government decided to partner Facebook in order to provide small and medium entrepreneurs in the state the opportunity to expand their customer reach by projecting their message on global platforms like Facebook, thereby promoting exposure. According  to him,” We decided to organize the programme to develop micro, small and medium entrepreneurs in Ondo state. We have a mandate, within this mandate of developing and growing small and micro entrepreneurs. “We have the incubation and acceleration programme, the enterprise development services, the business support service programme and Ondo State employment trust programme. “So, partnering with Facebook was very strategic for us, for us, this is a long term partnership that just begun today. “The idea is to see small and medium enterprise owners in the state to actually grow their businesses using social media as a tool for the sale of the businesses.” Also speaking, Bamidele Oloyelogun, speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly advised the participants to make good use of what the learnt during the training. Oloyelogun who was represented by Festus Adefioye, deputy chief whip of the House thanked the government and Facebook for organizing such event in the state. He said”People believe you are a criminal when you carry a laptop not knowing that you can now transact billions of naira online. “I thank the organizers, and to the participants, please don’t misuse this opportunities, at the end, there are more advantages than disadvantages, so kindly take it serious.”