The emergence of Tayo Alasoadura as Ondo State nominee for ministerial position is poised to alter some political permutations in the state and boost Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s political stamina, reports Damisi Ojo in Akure The political ripple effects arising from the agitations by Nigerians over President Muhammdu Buhari’s new cabinet took a new twist since Tuesday when his list containing 43 ministerial nominees was released to the Senate for approval. There had been hue and cry over the delay in forming the new Federal Executive Council (FEC). The delay drew a lot of spontaneous reactions with economic experts arguing that it would negatively affect the nation’s economy. The list of the nominees sent to the Senate comprises 14 returnee ministers and 29 new appointees. Among the new appointees is Tayo Alasoadura from Ondo State. Alasoadura, a former lawmaker representing Ondo Central Senatorial District in the Eighth Senate, is a close ally of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The popular belief in the Sunshine state is that Governor Akeredolu is the big masquerade behind the choice of Alasoadura as the representative of the state in the new cabinet of President Buhari. The governor had earlier said Akure, the state capital, should be given the opportunity to produce the minister that will represent the state at the next cabinet of President Buhari. Akeredolu made the case for the ancient city while speaking at the reception held in honour of Alasoadura. Until now, no indigene of the state capital had been appointed a minister since the return of Nigeria to democracy in 1999. The governor blamed the people of the senatorial district for the defeat of Alasoadura in the last general election despite his performance at the eight National Assembly. He said Alasoadura, who was the Chairman, House Committee on Petroleum (upstream), performed very well to deserve being reelected. Despite the hint given by the governor, the nomination of Alasoadura came as a surprise to most people in the state. The former senator was not among those expected to clinch the slot. Most insiders speculated that if the position would be given to an Akure indigene, it would either go to Mrs. Olubunmi Ademosu, the Special Adviser to Ondo State Governor on Public and Inter-Governmental Relations or to Engr. Tunji Ariyomo-Light, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Utilities. Both of them were said to have once lobbied for the job. No prominent person from the Northern Senatorial District eyed the job. Akeredolu hails from Owo Local Government Area in the district. That was why nobody expected that the position would be clinched by anyone from the zone. But from the Southern Senatorial District, we learnt that three strong politicians lobbied for the job. They are Isaac Kekemeke, the immediate past State Chairman of the party; Engr. Ife Oyedele, the Executive Director, Engineering and Technical Services, Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC) and Chief Olusola Oke, a former APC governorship aspirant and the Alliance for Democracy (AD) candidate in the 2016 gubernatorial election in the state. Kekemeke, who is also a former member of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Commissioner and Secretary to the State Government (SSG), is a native of Ese-Odo Local Government Area. The legal practitioner failed to secure the state ministerial slot in 2015 as he was said to have narrowly lost to Prof. Claudius Daramola, the immediate past Minister of State for Niger Delta. This time, it was gathered that Kekemeke romanced APC national leadership for the job, but it could not click. He is one of those eyeing Akeredolu’s plum seat. The former lawmaker is already seeking support from the APC members for his quest for the party’s nomination to contest the 2020 gubernatorial poll in the state. There were speculations that Oyedele was the favorite of an Abuja mafia for the state ministerial slot. Regarded to be a close political associate of President Buhari, Oyedele was said to be the person who designed the logo of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). The NDPHC boss, who hails from Okitipupa Local Government Area, was also said to have played an important role in the formation of the APC in 2013. It was learnt that a group of Abuja politicians sought the ministerial job for him so that he would be well-placed to displace Governor Akeredolu in the 2020 election. Oke, who is from Ilaje Local Government Area, also wanted the ministerial job to enhance his chances of winning the next state governorship election. The two-term governorship candidate and South West Coordinator of President Buhari Campaign Organisation in the last election, was speculated to have secured the nod of APC National leaders for the ministerial ticket. But recently, there was a report that Oke might drop both the ministerial bid and governorship ambition as it is said that he is being considered for the chairmanship of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), a position, which Ondo has never occupied. There is no doubt that the appointment of Alasoadura will significantly alter the political calculations and permutations in the Sunshine state ahead of the 2020 gubernatorial poll. Being a reliable political soulmate of Akeredolu, the appointment of Alasoadura is considered to be an added advantage to the governor. Analysts are of the opinion that the appointment is a succour against seeming conspiracy against Akeredolu. According to them, if the state ministerial slot had been secured by a political rival of Akeredolu, the position would have been effectively deployed to whittle down his influence and probably chase him out of the Alagbaka Government House in 2020. To them, it would have enriched the foe with enormous political energy to wrestle the party’s nomination with the governor. In Ondo State, ministerial slot has always given ambitious politicians an opportunity to dislodge the incumbent. It gives such politicians the power, influence, political vantage and stamina to effectively pursue their aspiration. For instance, the late Dr. Olusegun Agagu contested the governorship of the state against equally late Chief Adebayo Adefarati in 1999. Adefarati defeated Agagu. But Agagu was appointed a minister by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The former governor did not take his eyes away from the governor’s seat. He took advantage of his ministerial position and kicked Adefarati out of the Alagbaka Government House in 2003. The immediate past governor of the state, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, is another study on how to deploy the power and influence of a ministerial position to dislodge an incumbent governor. Mimiko joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) few weeks to the 2003 gubernatorial election. After the victory of Agagu, Mimiko was appointed the Secretary to the State Government (SSG). While Agagu’s mind was preoccupied with the development of the state, Mimiko was eyeing his seat and seeking opportunities to shove aside his boss. An opportunity came when the Ondo-born politician was appointed a minister, following the sack of Mrs. Mobolaji Osomo. Mimiko effectively utilized the position to push Agagu off the gubernatorial seat and achieve his ambition to rule the state. Given these realities, informed sources said appointment of Alasoadura will be a blessing to Akeredolu because the former senator is a strong loyalist of the governor. The loyalty of Alasoadura to his political associates has always been like that of a dog to its owner. Though he contested the governorship ticket of the APC against Akeredolu in 2006, after he lost the shadow poll, he has been one of the strong pillars behind the governor. Not a few observers of political events in Ondo State believe that it is God that is helping Akeredolu to fight his numerous political battles considering the level of conspiracy against him. A prominent APC stalwart in Ondo State, who spoke in confidence, said “Divine power has been assisting Governor Akeredolu to crack his nuts. People should realise this fact of his life. If God is with you, nobody will be against you and succeed. I can’t say what God considers about him. It may be his love for the state and passion for her development. It may also be his attitude of not playing politics with issues affecting the state”.