Seven real estate experts have formed a group to enable them handle big ticket jobs. Known as the Real Royal Professionals, the group has got the nod of Estate Surveyors & Valuers Registration Board (ESVARBON). With the approval, the consortium will operate as a body of experts in surveying and valuation. The lead consultant of the group, Chima Emele, said the consortium would fill the need for bigger firms in the profession. At the inauguration of the group in Lagos, Emele said it would promote the value espoused by ESVARBON, which is for firms to merge to successfully bid for large jobs from the government, companies and individuals given the the expertise in different fields each of the firm would bring to the table. According to Emele, this is because it is better for firms with expertise and core competencies various aspects to form a bigger body to pitch for accounts. He said: “Our group of seven members have various competencies as individuals and have agreed to work together to deliver services to our clients. We believe we will be more relevant as a group that we are now rather than individuals. We have fellows of the institute, associate members, lawyers, tax consultants, accountants and many more. The consortium is positioned to handle any job, indeed all that it takes to deliver competitive service rather than individual companies is in our kitty.” Emele said the institution has been urging firms to merge to have access to bigger jobs, adding “that the bigger the merrier.” The idea, he said, is that instead of individual firms that may not make huge impact on the society as units, coming together will enable the consortium to deliver better service. He said: “If a job is advertised and we give you our profile and you see the calibre of people there, you will not have any option but to consider us for the job because we have professionals in all aspects of agency management. The beauty of the team is that we cross-fertilise ideas, debate, fine-tune and come out with the best idea, process and procedure for our clients. For instance, I am a professional in plant and machinery; another member is a facility management expert, property valuation, agriculture valuation and agency. In essence, any job we prospect for, we have a specialist that will be in charge to ensure we deliver the best to our prospective clients. It is the best for the profession, the nation and also for the public who may need our service,” Emele said. He said there is a memorandum of understanding (MoU) binding their operational guideline on their actions and resolutions in all that they do. Furthermore, he said the consortium has an arbitration unit that can resolve issues and disputes including model for profit sharing. Head of Department of Estate Management, Yaba College of Technology, Pastor Benjamin Ajayeoba, while commending the consortium, hailed the firms for coming together as most of them are his former students. He encouraged them on professionalism, integrity and openness. Noting that that is the only way they can succeed.