With Nigeria signing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement, what are the benefits? Arguably the continent’s most ambitious integration initiative, AfCFTA’s goal is to create a single market to be followed by free movement and a single currency union. We bring you views expressed by experts at different fora on the benefits of the deal. Here are the benefits in the words of those who know: 1. When AfCFTA takes effect, there will be a single continental market for goods and services in Africa. 2. There will be free movement of business persons and investments. 3. The agreement will pave the way for accelerating the establishment of the continental Customs Union. 4. According to the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) Competition Commission Chief Executive Officer Mr George Lipimile, AfCFTA will expand intra-African trade through better harmonisation and coordination of trade liberalisatiion. 5. It is expected to enhance competitiveness at the enterprise and industry level, and support economic transformation through exploitation of economies of scale, continental market access and better reallocation of resources. 6. AfCFTA’s Continental Competition Rules, Lipimile said, will introduce a “one-stop shop” for cross-border transactions, expectedly easing the cost of doing business on the continent. 7. There will be no duplicated legal hurdles to cross due to reduced filing fees for registration requirements, and the risks of different decisions from different competition jurisdictions will be eliminated. 8. Unlike the national competition authorities whose jurisdiction is limited by national boundaries, AfCFTA competition rules would provide extra-territorial powers to investigate restrictive business practices across the continent. 9. Nigerian Chief Trade Negotiator/Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations Director-General Ambassador Chiedu Osakwe, who played a major role in AfCFTA negotiations, said AfCFTA establishes a legal order for trade within Africa previously not had. 10. Regional Integration & Trade Division Director at the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), Dr Stephen Karinga, said AfCFTA will break trade barriers and provide enterprise opportunities. “If we don’t break down the barriers now, we’re limiting the opportunities available to young entrepreneurs in years to come,” he said. 11. Former South Africa Representative to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Ambassador Ishmael Faizel, said AfCFTA will spur industrialisation. “Our challenge in Africa is to build industrial capacity,” he said. 12. Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Economic Matters, Dr. Adeyemi Dipeolu, said AfCFTA can spur Nigeria to create “continental infrastructure”. 13. Former Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen said AfCFTA will enhance “collaborative relationship among African nations given our common resolve to build a new Africa founded on common identity, integration, common economic development, tenets of social justice and accountable leadership”. 14. Professor of International Law and Jurisprudence, Akin Oyebode, said Nigeria’s signing of the AfCFTA will make the country competitive “so that we’ll never apologise for being Africans”. 15. Political economist Prof Pat Utomi, who believes signing AfCFTA is worth the risk, said: “We need to grow intra-Africa trade. We could co-produce. We have to find a way to encourage manufacturers to play in a global value chain where they will be more enriched.” 16. Pioneer Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Section on Business Law (SBL) chairman George Etomi said AfCFTA will enable Nigeria “get our own fair share of the world trade, not only goods, but services”. 17. Etomi added that when trade barriers are opened, more opportunities would open for lawyers. “There will be myriads of agreements to be drawn and dispute resolutions to be handled,” he said. 18. A lawyer and partner at KPMG, Wole Obayomi, believes that AfCFTA will benefit law firms when they adopt continental partnership models that will enable them develop capacity to handle complex high-end deals. Obayomi said: “Inernational corporate organisations want firms that can deal with them cross-border. If you’re part of an international network, opportunities will be vast.” 19. Former Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) executive chairman Mrs. Ifueko Okauru said AfCFTA would serve not only for country integration and corporation, but regional integration. 20. Former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun said AfCFTA would create more trade opportunities for states, and lead to more investment/industrialisation. 21. Former Edo State Governor Oserhieme Osunbor said with AfCFTA: “Intra-Africa trade will lead to the creation of wealth and employment.” 22. Regional Trade Adviser at the African Union Commission (AUC), Babajide Sodipo, said with AfCFTA, Nigeria will have an expanded market. 23. Shodipo said AfCFTA will result in more investments because investors would prefer to invest in Nigeria as an AfCFTA-compliant country with access to a billion people rather than 200million people. 24. Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) President Mr Babatunde Ruwase said AfCFTA could be an economic game-changer. “The reality is that there is a great deal of value in economic integration…” he said. 25. Adjunct Professor at the Centre of Comparative Law in Africa, University of Cape Town, South Africa, Prof Faizel Ismail, said AfCFTA has the prospect of catalysing the process of transformative industrial development, cross-border investment, democracy and governance in Africa. 26. A multilateral diplomat and former African Union (AU) consultant Dr Babafemi Badejo said AfCFTA would boost intra-African trade as a way to spur economic development.