Chairman Crystal Courts Hotel, Lagos, Prince Emmanuel Obi, has urged the Federal Government to focus more on developing the tourism sector, saying that tourism can only grow in a good operating environment where security and social amenities are available. Prince Obi stated that the inability of government to effectively address tourism challenges would truncate the growth of the hospitality businesses across states. Advising Nigeria to take a cue from Kenya, Obi pointed out that to achieve tourism growth, the government should be able to provide necessary social amenities such as good roads, security, electricity supply, tourism sites amongst others. According him, the industry should be able to afford guests places to go such as museums, landmark centers, beaches, which must be secured to assume full blown hospitality environment. He noted that for hospitality to thrive in the country, the environment must be made conducive enough, stressing that what Nigeria does presently is just to operate hotels, which has not attracted enough tourists and visitors. Obi who appealed to Lagos State’s Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to help harness Lagos State tourism potentials, said government should provide practitioners with incentives at all levels as indication of taking the sector serious. He stated that growing the hospitality business depends on the impression on one’s mind, noting that the term is highly abused in the country mind. “We don’t really have hospitality in this country. Hospitality is not just about hotel”, he said. According to him, the tourism potential in this country is tremendous but has not been adequately harnessed. “Every nation of the world that is thriving in tourism would always have a museum of history, arts, monuments, libraries, landmarks, old building and these things make tourism tick. Eko Atlantic is the haven we have. Government should create synergy with private owners in making Eko Atlantic a haven for the visitors to see”. “The numbers of hotels on the streets in Nigeria have actually shrunk due to lack of patronage. So, there must be a definition while setting up a hotel. The visitors we have in this country are business men who came for conferences and seminars, they didn’t come to have fun,” he added. Narrating his experience, Obi said: “I believe in setting  up one and  make it work very well before going to the next one. My hotel is barely five years now but I have been in hospitality business for the past 24 years. “In a couple of years,  Crystal Courts Hotel shall be one of the leading hotels with  very comfortable brand as signature”, he promised.