Association for Formidable Education Development (AFED) National President Mr Emmanuel Orji, has called on international agencies like the United Nations to recognise the role of low-cost private schools in educating children that would otherwise not have been in school. Speaking at a briefing ahead of the group’s Africa Education Conference holding between July 25 and 26, Orji sought support from these organisations. He expressed concern that Nigeria may not meet the 2030 Universal Education for all Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Four. He said because AFED schools charge low fees, they are able to reach less privileged children – educating even more of them than the government in some places. He urged the agencies to change their thinking that it is only by supporting public education that the Universal Education goal could be reached. Orji said: “We think the United Nations as a credible organisation should not only talk about targets without supporting member nations with innovative ideas such as low-fee paying education system that can help in achieving the SDG. “We, therefore, implore the United Nations and other international organisations to: reconsider her stand in the belief that only state owned and managed schools can be efficient in achieving the SDG target; reconsider partnering with non-state actors like AFED to make these objectives achievable and in time. “We wish to inform the general public to join us in the quest to give education to the African child. The association has on so many occasions said that government can reduce the number of out-of-school if conscious and concrete collaboration are established with low-fee paying schools association like AFED. This fact was authenticated by the research work done by DFID through its programme named DEEPEN between 2015 and 2018. “It is high time the United Nations and other international organisations supporting education development in the sub-Sahara Africa changed their stand on state owned and low-fee schools.” The AFED President said these possibilities would be explored at next week’s conference scheduled to hold at the Ade Ajayi Main Auditorium, University of Lagos (UNILAG). He noted that speakers for the conference which has as  a theme: “The SDGs educational target: Facts and fictions”, include renowned economist, Prof Pat Utomi; CEO Leading Learning, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo; renowned researcher in low-cost education, Prof James Tooley of the University of Birmingham; and rights activist, Mr Femi Falana.