Actress and entrepreneur Lizzy Anjorin has acquired a new house. Sharing the news on her Instagram account on Thursday, Lizzy flaunted a picture of the house and acknowledged the supportive role her mother played in her life. “Congrats to us maami,” she wrote. “It’s a huge LIZZY ANJORIN PARADISE. Though it might look like kitchen or toilet to some people. “I wanted to hide it before but I noticed my house/s are always ready during June/July…It will be stupid of me not to give testimony so that those people with good heart can praise and exalt your name (ALLAH) on my behalf.” Recounting how the months of June and July which brought rains to them, the actress stated: “June / July?? Is the month I and my rested mother suffered most as homeless hawkers… Maami, you thought me how to hide at edge of heavy materials during rain. We tie our cloth together so that breeze and water will not overflood me. “June and July?? No matter how careful we may be, we often sleep on our feet standing due to flood. Throw away things we took on debt due to slippery of floor during raining season. Our eyes always shed stream of tears. People we took debt from humiliate and call you names before me. If they refuse to supply us on credit, we always settle for snail hurting. We picked small snails, boiled and washed and take to market and sell. “June/July month we go hungry and suffer most. June/ July?? The month I had my baby in Jos with zero rest of mind or love expect my mother in law ( iya ijebu thank you ma). “June /July?? Let’s stop here. I will talk about u some other time but thank u for smiling at me now I appreciate your kind gesture. Thank u for been my best friend now & forever .. Thank you Allah for making me eat enough and sleep in a good place with enough cloth to cover my tiny body.” “MAMI thank you for teaching me how to do it alone. Thank you for giving me wonderful names, Thank you for not allowing me to change my SURNAME ….”ANJORIN ” Rest on maami forget our rough old story, I will chose you as my mother in my next life ..Na mama you be. When I dey tell you then say I will rewrite your story …you will say SEGANMIDOGO means (CHANGE MY SHAMES TO GLORY)”