And I would do anything for love I’d run right into hell and back I would do anything for love I’d never lie to you and that’s a fact But I’ll never forget the way you feel right now Oh no, no way And I would do anything for love Oh I would do anything for love I would do anything for love, but I won’t do that No, I won’t do that – Jim Steinma  I will do anything for Love. This is certainly a familiar love song and it goes on and on talking about the things lovebirds would do for the heart they cherish and want to keep forever like diamonds. The song which has been recorded by different artistes overtime points to the promises, love heights and the other side that remind us all about love’s reality zone. So many lovebirds are willing to do everything and anything for the heart that they love. The stakes are higher when it is reciprocated and everyone is happy and intoxicated by the love environment. Unfortunately, the love season differs. It changes with emotional chameleon taking charge of the stage at different phases of the game. When some set out to betray the love process from the onset, others simply get carried away midway and forget the sweet promises and vows of sticking to one another till death do them apart. When the chips are down, those who have hearts as strong as the lion learn to move on without causing a stir. However, not everyone gives up so easily. Those in this category would fight as well as take back a pound of flesh, or even more. A recent video of a battered widow beaten to a state of coma by a jealous wife and her sister comes to mind here. The images naturally bring tears to the eyes and you cannot help but pity the woman at the receiving end. As a widow, she must have been a lonely heart and that vacuum obviously led her to trouble. Perhaps, she didn’t even give the man her consent. Or she may not even know that he was ‘happily’ married. Whatever transpired between the twosome is a personal secret. We are not in their shoes and cannot make any assumptions here. They would be able to tell their story; that is if it is something they want to go viral like the video in question. Next, your mind goes to the woman at the centre of the emotional scandal, the wife. Naturally, she would have been nursing emotional wounds overtime. Sadly, that is the story in a cheating game. Someone must be at the lower end and the emotional trauma would someday give way to what happened or even worse. Nights of pain, crying in the dark, waking up to curse the day they met, how she is going to pay them back and subsequently unleash emotional terror. Unfortunately, you don’t have to take the law into your hand to vindicate yourself. Also wrapped in the love triangle is a sister who has also gone through tough emotional times. Guilty? Yes. You can’t take the laws (emotional) into your hands, without fully understanding what’s going on in the space. You just cannot be the victim, the prosecutor and the jury. When in a deep emotional mess, the wise thing to do would be to step aside and allow other people to come in and find answers and solutions for you. Jungle justice won’t work. This is certainly crude and it would only get you into more trouble. As a matter of fact, it may actually mess up the whole process and you will end up losing what you set out to save in the first place.  To survive, it is better to have a great strategy that would definitely make you smarter, wiser and you would be able to recover, repossess and realign your ‘loot’ without stress. Interestingly, sometimes the emotional space can be unfair to the real victims. Some things are not visible and there are no arguments that would justify that you have been robbed in the emotional transaction. Here, the best thing perhaps would be to let go of the loot instead of fighting over a heart that has already been repositioned. Everyone is part of the emotional jury here and you can give your verdict depending on what side of the emotional coin that you are on. We would all have something to say. It’s tough judging a desperate housewife flogging a helpless rival in despair. The crux of the matter is that they wear the shoes, they know where and how it pinches and you cannot pass a verdict except you have been down that corridor yourself. If you have, then simply do a flashback and recall the things that went on in your mind. Thank God, you didn’t carry out your plans. Imagine what would have happened if you had done what you wanted to do then. God forbid!