Blockchain, a technology that uses online distributed ledger, is creating jobs. Stakeholders speak on the opportunities in the subsector on the sidelines of a MeetUp forum in Lagos, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Blockchain, also described as distributed ledger technology (DLT), is changing the economy by making transactions more efficient and reliable. This is because it helps organisations and individuals organise data into blocks, which are chained together in an append only mode. The system enables recording of interactions and transfer “value” peer-to-peer, without a need for a centrally coordinating entity. Organisations are deploying the technology to speed up transactions. This has created jobs opportunities for Nigerians. Founder/coordinator, Blockchain Nigeria User Group, Chuta Chimezie, said Blockchain technology helps to maintain and verify digital records in “blocks” that can be shared between various parties. Also called “distributed ledger technology”, ledgers can be updated instantly in any  location. The information can never be erased. Chimezie said Blockchain is among the most sought-after abilities workers will need in the future. He said the development of Blockchain distributed ledgers for businesses is one of the fastest-growing jobs. To take advantage of such opportunities, youths must acquire skillset in programming languages. According to him, for Blockchain technology to gain traction, it will require more developers to acquire the skills to work with the technology. For the moment, he said developers that do have experience in the field are in high demand. He said there are jobs for Blockchain project managers, engineers and web designer. He added that people with experience in specific Blockchains are in higher demand. He said local firms are posting a plethora of Blockchain jobs, but there is a dearth of talents to fill them. The Managing Director, Jelurida Africa DLT, Adedayo Adebajo,  said the organisation is empowering Nigerians in viable and feasible business ventures they can engage with the use of the Blockchain. Aside conferences, he said Jelurida teamed up with the Nigeria Blockchain Alliance (NBA), a sub-division of the Cryptography Development Initiative in Nigeria (CDIN), to organise a Campus Blockchain Hackathon. The objective, he explained, was to engage the academic community on the importance of Blockchain technology, its relevant use cases and more specific, its adoption for enterprising solutions. The first of the campus hackathon sponsored by Jelurida was held last year in Kwara State University. According to him, it was a delightful moment to witness, as the enlightened young minds were able to create amazing and relevant use cases for the Blockchain technology. Hackathon is one of the many platforms that Jelurida is employing to create technological awareness and to make Blockchain technology popular in Africa. The second campus hackathon programme took place at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. The programme was held, in collaboration with ABU developers (ABUdevs) and KadICT Hub. He said  the students were exposed to the use-cases of the Blockchain Technology and enlightened on creative and innovative solutions that can be worked on using the Blockchain technology, especially ideas on governance (E-voting), agriculture, education and real estate. He said students were made to think creatively about how Blockchain can be used for financial inclusions and services in their schools.  Ideas and Blockchain based solutions were also generated and pitched by the students. He said the organisation is promoting activities to generate business ideas from startups and small businesses towards the goal of a decentralised and transparent ecosystem. He said his organisation has developed training programmes to enable Nigerians benefit from opportunities emerging from the sector. His words: “There are lots of available jobs in the Blockchain space, but there are not enough of people to apply for them as the current graduates aren’t equipped with the experience required.”