The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Gani Adams on Thursday evening said they were having different meetings with different organizations and with state governments in the southwest on how to tackle the security challenges. According to him, since the governors are the chief security officers of their states and in a sensitive security situation like this, there is a need to be very careful not to jump the gun. Adams spoke in Akure, the Ondo state capital while paying a condolence visit to Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti over the death of his daughter, Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, who was killed by gunmen along Ore-Sagamu road last week Friday. The Aare Ona Kakanfo said” I can tell you authoritatively that we are meeting as a group and as stakeholders to map out strategies to complement efforts of the law enforcement agencies. He said, “I have been notified that the IGP has arranged a special squad to work on that dangerous spot of the southwest due to the letter I wrote to the IGP four weeks ago.” “We can no longer allow our people to be killed like chickens. We can’t keep quiet while Yorubas are being killed like fouls. “It is very important that we react to this issue but we will not overreact. We are being cautious so that we won’t be setup. And the law is there that we have to operate within the ambit of the law. That is one of the reasons we are being careful.” He said his own Aare Ona Kakanfo is a modern one, saying that, “It is not that of the olden days where the Alaafin and some Yoruba Obas with the Oyo Mesi will declare war and you can go to war. We have the structure of security on ground, the entire security apparatus. “We have to be careful not to go into their own trap. We have to be careful. It is good you see me in circulation to walk with you. We don’t want a situation we walk into their trap because we realize that this ugly incident is being coordinated beyond our own scene. There are some forces behind them. Adams further said, “how can ordinary Fulani herdsmen be holding AK 47. In our findings, AK 47 rifle goes for about N1 million and with many bullets. So, we are looking beyond ordinary Fulani herdsmen.” “We realized that there are some forces behind them in three phases. Those who strike in the bush, those who issued statement to back them up and those who are strategists who give instructions to those who strike and to those who issue statements” “We always react. When we tell our people to prepare, they employ non-chalant attitude to it” “I have seen this signal, I have the information. Last year I wrote our governors and a summit on security was held three weeks ago, just within three hours we couldn’t conclude on that summit.” “Now we don’t have option, we have to work with them. They are the chief security officers of their states and anything that happens within their state is an embarrassment to them. Don’t forget that they are the ones collecting all the security votes. “As the Aare Ona Kankafo, I use my personal fund. We are talking about someone that is ready to sacrifice anything for his own race and not reading political meaning to all that is happening”.