The Federal Government may have jettisoned its local contenet policy in the information communication technology (ICT) sector as it has promised to embark on general survey on HP computers and toners, partner the foreign original equipment manufacturer  (OEM)  to procure its genuine products for maximum output. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications, Mr. Musa Istifanus, made the promise during a meeting between officials of the Ministry and a delegation of HP Computer Manufacturers Company in Abuja at the weekend. Analysts say this contradicts government’s position on local content policy as contained in ‘Executive Order 5 for Planning and Execution of Projects, Promotion of Nigerian Content in Contracts and Science, Engineering and Technology’ (the Order) signed into law last year by by President Muhammadu Buhari. Represented by Director, Information Communication Technology (ICT), Mrs. Monilola Udoh, the permanent secretary described the rate of counterfeit products in the country as a problem and worrisome, assuring that the Federal Ministry of Communications would take a lead to survey all HP computers in the Federal Government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). “We will encourage registration with HP to supply genuine computer systems and parts, service the bad ones through their certified engineers and distributors to put an end to the ugly trend of illegal distributors who make consumers to pay more for bad products that end up not serving their purposes,” Istifanus said. He regretted that there are so many fake products in the market hence and urged the company to intensify enlightenment campaigns and workshops to educate consumers on how to identify fake products and their implications on their (consumers) economy. He also urged the firm to organise a workshop for all procurement directors in the MDAs to sensitise them on the negative effects of counterfeit products, how they affect manpower and how to avoid falling victims so that public funds would not be wasted on buying products that would not serve their purposes. He said product counterfeiting is a general problem, thus, Federal Ministry of communications would partner the company to avoid patronising fake products and secure toners service programme from it (HP) to safe the Federal government from avoidable costs In a remark at the meeting, Manager, HP Company, Emmanuel Eze said the firm is determined to provide consumers satisfaction having put in place certain control measures such as buying the products through authorised distributors and retailers, monitoring their activities while enlightening the beneficiaries on how to avoid counterfeit products. In a presentation at the meeting, the Business Manager (HP), Olamide Ojo said there are so many counterfeit products in the market which according to him, is a global phenomenon not peculiar to Nigeria alone, where illegal manufacturers fake their products to look like the originals which at the end failed to serve the consumers. According to him, the ugly trend of counterfeit products has not only cost the company millions of dollars but has also cost unsuspecting consumers their hard earned money and rid them from consumer satisfaction. The meeting which was meant to address the increasing rate of counterfeiting HP products in the market with the view to address the menace so that the Federal government and unsuspecting consumers would not lose their hard earned money to buy fake products that would not stand the test of time after they were purchased.