Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle has commended the Speaker of the House of representatives,  Femi Gbajabiamila, for appointing former Speaker of the House of Assembly Sanusi Rikiji as his Chief of Staff. In a statement by his media aide, Malam Nasiru, the governor expressed his gratitude for the gesture, adding that the appointment is not for Rikiji family, but for the government and people of Zamfara State. He described Rikiji as humble, trust worthy and committed person who is equal to the task. He said: “The government and people of Zamfara State stand firmly with the Speaker, fully confident that the Chief of Staff would do the state proud, much as the Speaker is bound to be the happiest in the choice of Sanusi Rikiji. We are behind him and he will not fail you.” Also, while receiving the Speaker on a condolence visit over the death of the father of Chief of Staff, Alhaji Sani Dahiru, the representative of the Emir of Gusau, who spoke on behalf of Rikiji family, thanked Gbajabiamila for the visit and the appointment of their son. According to them, Rikiji Family will continue to pray for the leadership and entire members of the National Assembly for Allah’s guidance to excel and deliver their mandate to take Nigeria to the next level. He said: “What happened to Rikiji Family is inevitable, but whenever it happens the feeling of the great loss must be there. One of the ways for having a solace is to have the loved ones who share the worries with you. Mr. Speaker sir, as you leave all your mandates coming all the way from Abuja to condole our family, words cannot  express our feelings nor our thanks for your concern.” Gbajabiamila condoled the government, people of the state and the family, and prayed for the repose of the deceased’s soul. He added: “I had wanted to be in Gusau to visit a father who has Sanusi as his biological son. Such a father has indeed all the blessings of God for that gem of personality in the Sanusi I know. May his soul rest in peace.”