Legendary hip hop star, Innocent Idibia popularly known as 2baba has waved aside his wife kissing other people as part of her job. He said this at the premiere of ‘Power of 1’ in Houston, Texas, USA over the weekend. The movie which details the role of 2Baba in staging a protest against government policy in Nigeria. Alexx Ekubo, who acted in movie and kissed 2Baba’s wife in the movie had posted a video clip of the event on Instagram. Alexx wrote: “Kissing @annieidibia1 was the second hardest part of filming @powerof1movie, the 1st been asking @official2baba how he felt about it. Peep how fast i raised my head, the shock on my face.#Team2AnnieForever” Later when 2Baba was asked how he felt as his wife, Anne Idibia, was kissed by Alexx, he calmly responded: “That’s their job. That’s what they do. As far as you no follow am come enter my house.” This elicited laughter from the audience as 2Baba and Alexx hugged each other. Produced by Buckwyld entertainment, the ‘Power of 1’ was directed by Izu Ojukwu and it hit Nigerian cinemas last year. The movie also features Jibola Dabo, Jide Kosoko, Rachel Oniga, Michelle Dede, Lucy Ameh, Padita Agu, Tommy Oyewole and cameos by Sound Sultan and 2Baba himself. The film, ‘Power of 1’ would have its London premiere on August 23 at Odeon Greenwich. In an interview granted to an online publication last year, 2Baba’s manager, Efe Omorogbe, had said the movie, a mixture of facts and fiction, details 2Baba’s incursion into political agitation in Nigeria. “I work with the 2Baba foundation and we started in 2011 to get into the political space and by 2014, we had some organisations joined us and we launched ‘Vote not Fight’ and the reason was simple,” he said. “(There) were so many predictions about the 2015 to be violent and we sat and said, yes there might be these predictions but what can we do to stop or reduce it to the barest minimum and we designed a campaign called ‘Vote not Fight, Election no be war’ and we engaged youths for months on end. “We went from place to place using 2baba’s star power and resources of these other organisations to engage young people and showing them clearly reasons why violence is not an option for 2015 election and by the time it was the election, we had covered over 744 local governments and the election was relatively peaceful. This made it clear that we could get it done. So, we’ve been working on sensitising the youths making them understand why their votes count and why they need to make it count by a singular decision. “And in January 24, 2017, 2Baba posted something on Instagram supporting the cries of the masses and it was like matches and petrol and we saw drama unfolding before our very eyes, it was very close to something we might not be able to handle so he pulled the plug to primarily douse the tension and reduce the possibility of violence where people will get hurt.”