Former President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday called for a united front against insecurity. Jonathan, who said insecurity appears from time to time in the country, added that all leaders must have a conversation that would end the carnage defenceless Nigerians are facing. “We must get the country out of insecurity,” Jonathan said while responding to questions during the public presentation of a book tittled: “Not By Might Nor By Power”, a selected messages to the world written by His Grace, the Most Rev Nicholas D. Okoh, Archbishop, Metropolitan and Primate of Nigeria. The event, which was also the launching of the Nicholas Okoh Foundation, brought together eminent Nigerians, including former military Head of State Gen Yakubu Gowon. But Jonathan, while speaking to journalists, said every generation has its challenges, adding that leaders must come together to address it. “If things are wrong, leaders, including me, we should be talking. And there are a lot of conversations going on to solve this problem,” Jonathan said, adding: “Every generation has its problem. In fact, my generation is almost gone. It’s for your generation and we must all come together to solve the problem.” “The security challenges have been with us for long, but we know that whatever is the challenge, we must come together and addressing it, The political leaders in the country and traditional leaders are talking. And we must get the country out of insecurity,” the immediate past president said. Rev Okoh cautioned against ethnic groups forming their own militia to stop the killings. “I have no solution because I am an individual. But we try to ask the appropriate authorities to do what they should do, and that is the government. “I strongly believe that individuals should not take security initiative. Because, if individuals take their own security initiative, by this way, I mean that we organise our own militias, the country will be destroyed,” Okoh who is due to retire next year, said. “Everybody will perish,” he said of ethnic groups forming their militias. He added: “But government that has the constitutional responsibility to maintain security should do so and quickly too before it gets out of hand. That is my appeal.” On why he has been speaking truth to power, the retired military officer, who joined the Anglican Church ministry and rose to the highest level, said: “It depends on what you believe to be your ministry. If your ministry represents God, God doesn’t lie. You might be poor, you must summon courage and speak the truth because it is the truth that heals. It is the truth that will define. If the person you are speaking to realises that you are lying or deceiving him, he will not help,” the Primate said. He advised young pastors not to be in a hurry, adding that he observed that many of them are in a hurry to be noticed. “If you are with God, hear from God before you speak. Don’t dish out your imagination and say, ‘God has said’ Make sure you receive a message from God and you are in tune with Him (God),” Rev. Okoh said. He said the NGO will help him in ministry even after leaving as Primate in the coming year. “I want to continue with my work as a man of God. The book is about yearly situation and the solutions I provided. At this point, I decided that the two volumes should be published. There are other books unpublished. There is a gap between what we think and what we do. We want our children and those following us to know that we have not arrived. We must back it up with moral intergrity,” Rev. Okoh added.