How has the ban on vehicle import through land borders fared? It has failed to meet its objectives, say experts. An importer, Chief Edwin Akwaeze, said the policy had failed to yield results two years into its implementation. He also said the policy was encouraging smuggling and unemployment. He added that the government was losing a lot of revenue. Akwaeze said the policy had only put the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) under intense anti-smuggling pressure, adding that seized vehicles in Customs warehouses nationwide are rotting away. “There is nothing wrong in trying a policy, but where you find it unfavourable, you have to reconsider your position. While Customs are preventing smuggling of vehicles, many smuggled vehicles still enter the country. “What they succeed in seizing along the roads is meagre compared to what escapes their surveillance into Nigeria. “The argument that they are encouraging the use of Nigerian ports for vehicular imports also does not hold. Efforts should rather be made to make the ports more competitive, user-friendly and efficient. “We must ask ourselves what is Cotonou and Cameroun doing that we are yet to do? Why are vehicle importers avoiding our ports? We have to rework our policies. “We are the largest market in West and Central Africa with the largest consumption of automobile cargo. Nothing justifies our ports being less attractive. “ Trade growth and economic development take more of tact and strategy than hard punitive policies. We stopped vehicles from paying duties at borders and the ones we seized are not available for citizens to buy or transparently dispensed through auction. Akwaeze also said many jobs have been lost to the policy, which took effect since January 2017. The prohibition order covers new and used vehicles. The ban was sequel to a presidential directive restricting vehicle imports to the country sea ports only. The order took effect from January 1, 2017. The restriction on vehicles import followed that of rice, whose imports have been banned through the land borders since April 2016. Akwaeze said the ban on rice through borders has failed as; according to him, smuggled foreign rice dominate the markets despite huge rice seizures made by the NCS. Former Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents Chairman, Alhaji Dele Azeez said the working of connectivity programme between Nigeria and Benin Customs may cause the government to rescind the ban. Azeez said the success of the scheme might encourage the government because vehicles declared in Benin as destined for Nigeria are expected to be captured in Customs data base of both countries. This, according to him, would make it difficult for smuggling to thrive. He added: “We are hoping that the scheme works with the other importation it is being tested with. “We also have the challenge of human factor. When people comply, it becomes easier. I want to believe Benin Republic officials and business people will comply by handing over transit goods destined for Nigeria to our Customs “If that is done, we will make progress faster and I am optimistic;  the government may reconsider its position on the ban on vehicle through borders.’’