Reactions have trailed call of Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) on the federal government to immediately ban the popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija. MURIC, in a statement, attacked the federal government for allowing the BBNaija show to go on. The statement reads in part: “We are being forcibly dragged to a world of nudity, shamelessness and open promiscuity. Inmates of BBNaija kiss, romance and engage in sex openly. BBNaija is Bohemian, anti-social, crude and immoral. It constitutes a potent danger to every home. BBNaija is Satanic. It is unacceptable. “Where are our norms and values? Is it part of African culture to engage in sex in the open? Where are the authorities? Is the Ministry of Information and Culture sleeping? Is the National Orientation Agency on sabbatical? Who will protect our children from this despicable onslaught? Who did this to Nigeria? “…To cap the edifice, MURIC calls for immediate and total ban on this satanic television show. We charge the Ministry of Information and Culture to move swiftly against BB Naija before moral debauchery becomes Nigeria’s middle name. Nigerian youth must be protected from themselves and the time to do so is now. We invite the National Assembly to intervene immediately and we appeal to traditional rulers to add their voices to this campaign.” However, social media users reacted to the call by the MURIC to ban reality television show, Big Brother Naija (BBN). Here are some reactions gathered from Twitter: I’m not really a big fan of BBN but MURIC calling on Buhari to ban the TV show is another example of misplaced priorities.#BBNaijia — Local Black Man (@thelifeof_real) MURIC I’ve not seen you guys cry out against Muslim clerics that rape girls, yet it’s BBNaija that’s ur headache..You think Nigeria belongs to you the show is rated 18 and let me remind you there’s parental control on DSTV ..stop making noise Falz is still waiting 4u in court -— I.G: Fikky_Pearl @fikkypearl Dear MURIC,#BBNaija doesn’t force it way to your TV screen. Your @DStvNg decoder has a feature called ‘Parental Control’. With the feature, you can password the Chanel from your kids or yourself Everyone has freedom to watch whatever they want. Be it porn or #BBNaija — David Eze (@DixLow) MURIC will leave important things like #SayNoToRUGA, Fulani Heardsmen killings only to talk against things that actually makes Nigerians happy. They’re calling for the ban of #BBNaija? Small time, they’ll say Bet9ja should be banned also. Awon alainikanse alainironu — Eyan Chukwueze@R_Thobykov My television my business!
My data my business!
My dstv subscription my business!
My time my business! Calling on Mr president to put an end to one of my preferred choice of fun, smile & happiness is abusing my emotions! Tell your MCM “MURIC & his followers” to back off #BBNaija — Chineze (Ex Mrs Walcott Ozil’s bae @Amchizzy Muric hasn’t banned fulani herdsmen from rearing cattles on the roads and messing up the street. He hasn’t banned the abokis who use sniper to preserve stockfish. He hasn’t banned the Alhaji’s from getting married to under age girls. And it’s BBNaija he has petitioned. Gbese ! — HOe TEMPERED @Nappyblaze What is MURIC doing about the little girls that are being married off in the north? What is MURIC doing to help reduce the mass illiteracy in Northern Nigeria ? Absolutely nothing . But they want BBN to stop airing . It’s either i leave Nigeria or Nigeria leaves me . — Nwa Theresa @somtopapi