It was foremost playwright William Shakespeare who said, in his book Julius Caesar, that “when beggars die there are no comets seen, the heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes”. This aptly describes the reaction to the murder of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, daughter of Afenifere leader, Reuben Fasoranti. At 92, the nonagenarian must be used to some age related pains, but none could be compared to the grief of losing a child. Mrs. Olakunrin was cut down in a hail of bullets last week Friday on the Ondo-Ore highway by hoodlums whose identities are yet to be unveiled. Various groups and personalities, including Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, governors of the South West states, All Progressives Congress (APC) national leader Bola Tinubu and Afenifere chieftains have visited the Fasorantis’ Akure residence to register their condolences. Others, including President Muhammadu Buhari, the Senate, former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan as well as Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka have not only expressed their condolences, they expressed great displeasure at the worsening insecurity and its effects on social relations in the land. Daily, avoidable deaths are recorded in all parts of the country. It appears the security agencies have no clue what could be done to stem the tide. The worst of all for national harmony and cohesion are the incessant clashes between herdsmen and farmers, as well as interethnic tension arising from activities of AK 47-wielding herders wreaking havoc all over the country. It is no surprise, therefore, that the killing of Mrs. Olakunrin has been attributed to the murderous gangs, even before investigation commenced. Already, Yoruba leaders have served notice that any more such activity, be it murder, kidnap or robbery traced to the herders could attract reprisals of monumental proportion. And, in a riposte, the Ango Abdullahi-led Northern Elders Forum has served notice it could withdraw all the Fulani herdsmen from the South, an action whose consequences are not lost on anyone. The presidency was quick to counter the threat by Professor Abdullahi. Situations like this when mutual suspicion trails every government policy and major pronouncement, show that the country is on tenterhooks. All that is needed to set it ablaze is an irrational action by a group. Needless to say Nigeria can I’ll afford such conflagration now. This is a point that the economy is fragile, poverty-induced violence is the order of the day and food insecurity looms. Mrs. Olakunrin is dead and throwing ethnic or religious brickbats and tantrums cannot reverse the damage. What can and must be done is a resolve to halt the decline by building a united, prosperous country in which all citizens would feel equal. All in and out of the government must resolve to make her death a turning point. The starting point is for the security forces to be professional in handling and getting to the root of this case. The criminals should be fished out. President Buhari, state governors and the political class owe Nigeria a duty to provide leadership and ensure that all Nigerians have a sense of belonging in a country where justice reigns. The governors should galvanise action among the people and make conscious efforts in ensuring that the drums of war cease in their domains. If they are able to ensure this, the mutual suspicion among various groups would decline and we’ll be able to revive peace and set the country on the path to prosperity once again.