The Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) has resolved to grow its capital base in the next two years to enable it have more funds to support Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Addressing reporters on the sidelines of the DBN Lecture Series in Abuja yesterday, the bank’s chairman,  Dr. Shehu Yahaya, said the bank has “done a five-year strategy at the DBN and that is focused on a much greater effectiveness in terms of delivery and support for MSMEs in Nigeria and this will involve substantial expansion of capital of the bank.” This he
said will involve getting many more participating financial institutions,
commercial banks, Microfinance Banks (MfBs) to participate together with DBN. The new
capital expansion he added will involve the establishment of a credit guarantee
company that will help guarantee some of the lending from commercial banks so
that they can use much more of their resources to support MSMEs sector. “That
way we can expand the business substantially,” he said. On the
planned capital expansion, he explained: “As you go forward, the idea is
to attract additional equity from impact investors as well as multilateral
development institutions. Although the government will remain a shareholder,
the relative ownership of the government is likely to be substantially diluted
in favour of private as well multilateral development institutions.” Within
the next two years, DBN he said plans to bring in additional capital, “they
will bring in additional equity investors and the DBN itself will be in a much
stronger position to issue its own securities so that it can expand its capital
base”. At the
moment, three institutions have equity in DBN. They are the Federal Government;
the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the European Investment Bank. Yahaya
said: “The Bank has lent more than N70 billion and impacted on more than
50,000 MSMEs.”  He said when the
capital expansion is executed, more funds will be available to more MSMEs which
contribute about 60 per cent to the gross domestic product (GDP). “We can
quote from some of our partners. The World Bank Mid Term Review of the DBN,
July 2019, and I quote: “DBN is institutionally operational and is fully
in compliance with prevailing regulations, with exceptional quality of
corporate governance standards….” “In
the short period since the DBN became operational in late 2017, it has already
established a strong record for effectiveness and professionalism as evidenced
by PFIs.” From the AfDB Annual Supervision Mission in
July 2019, I quote: “Four PFIs visited during the mission expressed their
overall satisfaction with DBN operations, describing them as prompt and
responsive” Delivering
the keynote, former AfDB President Dr Donald Kaberuka appealed to DBN and other
development banks to “resolve market failures in a market-friendly way,
and diversify the funding base not to be too reliant on the state.” Above
all, he advised that the management of DBN “must be free to take sound
independent investment decisions under the authority of boards that assure a good
oversight.” The
Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance, Dr. Mahmoud Isa- Dutse said
the Federal Government reckon with Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
(MSMEs) as the largest employer of labour. “In
many developed nations across the world, governments now recognise the emerging
power of MSMEs and go further to assist them with favorable policies, plans,
and programs to enable their success. That narrative is also changing in Africa
and Nigeria is taking the lead”. “Since
the inception of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the
government has recognised the need to pay the utmost attention to the MSMEs
because they account for almost 60 per cent Nigeria’s GDP. This administration
has demonstrated a willingness to develop this sector, by either enacting laws
or setting up government agencies and institutions to address the challenges
faced by the various stakeholders in this critical sector of the economy”,
he said. Earlier
in his welcome address, DBN’s Managing Director, Mr. Tony Okpanachi said
statistics has shown that “across the continent, and many global
economies, MSMEs are the bedrock of economic growth and development because of
the critical role they play in accelerating economic transformation and
industrialisation. In
Nigeria, he said recent data released by both SMEDAN and National Bureau of
Statistics (NBC) hav confirmed that there are about 41.5million MSMEs in
Nigeria and collectively they contribute to well over 50% of Nigeria’s GDP. “However,
access to finance is still a concern for this critical segment of the economy.
The latest figure indicates that at the Micro level, about 90.5% do not have
access to credit whilst the figure for SMEs is put at 67.9%. Other pressing
areas which rank high for SMEs are assistance in power and water supply – 83.5%
as well as tax rate reduction – 73.1%.”