Many thanks to Mr. Oyewale Bestmann who sent a long list of usages he wants addressed. We will tackle some of them in this edition and leave the rest for a subsequent edition as space permits. The misusages we have been treating have been alphabetically selected, but in deference to him, we will deviate from that rule until we finish with his randomly selected posers. Doing this, we crave the understanding of the other readers who may have become used to the alphabetical approach. Now then, over to Bestmann’s request, one by one: A select few: Often, we see expressions such as: “Only a select few are invited to the senator’s thanksgiving service;” and “The invitation is open to all, not a select few.” Both usages are correct. Whenever so used, the expression a select few connotes a small number considered to be most important. Here, it is necessary to understand the nature and function of the word select, which is ordinarily taken to be a verb. In other contexts, it is a verb, but in the context of the usage in consideration, it is an adjective used to modify the noun few (yes, a noun in this usage!). It could also modify other nouns like group, class, club and the like, as in “The girls are a select group in their set in college.” In association with few and all the other usages highlighted here, select as an adjective connotes something “of only the best type or highest quality, and usually small in size or amount” (Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary). And when you hear of a select committee, it is a specially selected group of people, usually in parliament, assigned “to report and advise on a particular subject” (ibid.). A selected few: This will describe any chosen small number of whatever, but not necessarily of the best or highest quality. Note that while the word selected is also an adjective, it is an adjective performing a different function from select in the expression “a select few.” You would do well, therefore, never to confuse the two expressions: a select few; and a selected few. When it is just a few chosen number, use the latter. But when it is a few who are of the highest quality, use the former. Remember that, for effective communication, we should always say what we mean and mean what we say. Not a few: This is used to mean many, as in “Not a few thought President Buhari defeated Atiku Abubakar in the 2019 election.” In other words, to many people, Buhari won the election. Screening exercise: Bestmann posits that the involvement of the word exercise in this phrase is redundant because screening is on its own an exercise and therefore does not require the additional word exercise. In Bestmann’s sense of the phrase, screening is as much an activity as exercise is. We agree with him that exercise in that phrase is unnecessary, verbose and arrantly redundant. The dictionary defines screening as a test or examination, and that perhaps settles it. A screening of someone for something is a complete message, as in “The doctor has scheduled a screening of the patients for typhoid.” Add exercise to screening in this sentence and see how ridiculous and bombastic redundancies can get. Census exercise: Redundancy is also the problem here. Census is obviously an exercise, a series of activities. Hear Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary on census: “a count for official purposes, especially one to count the number of people living in a country and to collect information about them.” So, it is sufficient for a country to simply embark on a census, not a census exercise. And you know why! Electioneering campaign: Again, redundancy is the issue here. Remember, redundancies are words, phrases, clauses, sentences and ideas that you could safely do without in your writing, and cluttering your text with such elements will only mislead your reader as well as betray your unhoned writing skills. In the phrase electioneering campaign, the word campaign is not required, because electioneering means “the activity of trying to persuade people to vote for a particular political party” (Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary) or a candidate in an election. What else is a campaign about? Correct usage is either electioneering or campaign, NOT both together. Simply, do not modify campaign with electioneering, because it is wrong usage. Consensus of opinion: It is wrong usage to say consensus of opinion. This is because, by definition, consensus is a generally accepted opinion or decision. So, it is inelegant, awkward and meaningless to talk of a consensus of opinion, which is like saying a generally accepted opinion of opinion. Similarly, it is tautological and therefore incorrect usage to talk of a general consensus. The offending word in that is the adjective general, which is a pivotal element in the definition of consensus. But it is correct usage to write a consensus of the people, meaning a generally accepted opinion or decision of the people. We have found Mr. Oyewale Bestmann’s posers very helpful. They threw us back to the matter of redundancies thrashed out at the inception of this column. Recall that we opined that redundancies are some of the toughest difficulties writers encounter. That is, many simply do not mind what to leave out of their writing, thereby undermining effective communication. Some more posers from Bestmann in the next edition!