The Students’ Union leaders of Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS), have opened the books into the financial activities of the immediate past executive. Its President, Faruk Barade, a 400-level Law undergraduate, is accusing his predecessor’s sales director, Abdulmajeed Kankara, of syphoning money meant for the union. According to Barade, Kankara a 300-Level History undergraduate, unilaterally collected N8,000 and had it for keeps instead of remitting same to the union’s account. According to Barade, the money is meant for rent of one of SU’ shops located at Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH). Said Barade: “When we arrived at the shop (General Shop), we realised that the former sales director has collected the sum of N8,000 — the rent for the shop. We asked for the receipt and we were shown. “I was disappointed because the former president said the amount was not remitted into the union’s account. When I called the former sales director about the money, he admitted to collecting it but he has misappropriated it. “Another bad habit of the former sales director was that while issuing receipts, he would backdate them — by writing an earlier date rather than the date the receipt was issued, so that it will look as if he had collected them during their administration. Barade recounted how he once forced Kankara to release the union’s money in his possession after reporting him to Deputy Dean of Students’ Affairs. “This is not his first time. He had also unilaterally collected N10,000 meant for kerosene in Students’ Union shop. Also he collect N6,000 from one of the tenants. “When I called and asked him about the money, he admitted to have collected but spent it. I had to report him to the Deputy Dean of Students’ Affairs before he refunded it.” Barade’s predecessor Ibrahim Kalgo a 400-Level Micro-biology student, confessed that, while in the saddle, his administration decided not to collect all rents which is due for SU from their tenants, adding that he feared his administration might not be able to protect all the funds if it had kept them. “The money I was referring to when I mentioned the remittance of the shop was the money which the tenants of our shops are due to remit. “I intentionally didn’t collect it because we might not be able to keep it since projects kept coming. “Even when my colleagues were asking me to collect it, I have to convince them that we should leave it for our successor.” While Kalgo relied on the consensus reached with his colleagues not to collect the money, he however asked Barade –led executive to collect the rents. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Kankara admitted to collecting the money meant for the rent of the shops, but claimed to have used it for another purpose. “Yes, I have collected the money and used the money for lubrication of the Students’ Union ambulance and the 18-seater bus.” He said he did not know if Kalgo, his former boss, was aware of the deal, despite earlier warning to all executive members not to collect rent for some shops. In the light of the foregoing, however, Barade has written a letter to the Students Representative Assembly (SRA), the legislative body of SU, as well as Zero Tolerance for Corruption (ZTC), an independent body that tackles corruption in UDUS, requesting investigation into the financial affairs of the immediate past administration. The letter titled: “Demand for investigation of current and past financial status of the union and breakdown of income and expenditure’ dated July 5, was co-signed by Barade and his Secretary, Sulaiman Abubakar.