Twenty-five pupils on Monday took the Computer Based Test (CBT), as entrance examination into the 16 model colleges and upgraded secondary schools in Lagos State began. One hundred and two others will take their turns to write the test at the board’s Iyana Ipaja office within five days, the State’s Examinations Board Director, Dr Oluwayemi Hassan, said. He added that the Paper-Pencil Test (PPT) for over 10,873 candidates would hold at 43 centres across the state on Saturday. Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education Mrs. Olatokunbo Adeleye, who monitored the examination, said the introduction of CBT since 2015 was in line with global trends. She advised parents to expose their children to Information Communication Technology (ICT) training. “The world is a global village and government cannot be left out. ICT compliance is key to the development of any nation. I implore parents and schools to help children become ICT compliant. Every year, Ministry of Education records an improvement in the registration of the CBT version, which started in 2015 with 17 candidates. The CBT is the best option because it is faster and easier,” Adeleye said. Hassan said from next year, the CBT would hold in Ikeja, Badagry, Lagos Island, Lagos Mainland and Epe, all the divisions of the state, so that all candidates sitting for the examination online would not come to Iyana-Ipaja. “We have 127 this year as against 72 in 2018; 55 in 2017 and 30 in 2016. By next year, the CBT will not take place at the exam board.  By next year we will have centres in the five divisions of the state,” he said. Hassan said the board had made provision for special needs children taking the examination. “We have computers for the visually- impaired, but none of them registered for the CBT option.  For the PPT option, we have braille examination questions for them. We even have a separate question for children with albinism. Their questions have larger characters; and for the hearing-impaired, we have interpreters,” he said. The Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) for JSS3 pupils, which was postponed on June 25, also started yesterday.