The Bayelsa State Government has called on desperate politicians vying for the governorship ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to leave Governor Seriake Dickson and former President Goodluck Jonathan out of their desperation to clinch ticket. The Special Adviser to Dickson on Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei urged all governorship aspirants of the PDP to focus their attention on unveiling their development agenda for the state rather than deploying underhand tactics to create division between the governor and the former President for targeted political benefits. Soriwei in a statement at the weekend reacted to an opinion articleallegedly sponsored by desperate politicians partaking in the governorship contest which targeted the former President and his family. He decried a situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election sponsored parallel publications against the governor and the former President with the regrettable intent to deepen disagreement and fault lines in the state. Soriwei, who condemned the attack on the former President fingered desperate politicians and their cronies who according to him, were reacting to the outcome of meetings and consultations between the Governor and the former President on the issue of the aspirants in the forthcoming primaries. He appealed all aides and supporters to devote their energy to the propagation of the policies and numerous programmes of the government. He also advised the people of the state to be wary of the sinister antics of desperate politicians, who had devised a strategy of division in the PDP as their political lifeline in the state. He said: “Our attention has been drawn to a scurrilous publication targeted at the former President. We have also seen the reaction from people suspected to be the former President’s publicists. We decry the situation where politicians seeking to contest the governorship election in the state sponsor parallel publications against the governor, his government and his team, and the former President and his family and his team, thereby deepening and taking advantage of disagreement and fault lines in the state. “We have read the publication by the PDP Youth Network and we condemn any attack on the former President. Our suspicion from all preliminary enquiries is pointing in the direction of some desperate gubernatorial aspirants who are doing everything possible to deepen division in the state especially between the Governor and the former President for their own selfish advantage. “They are doing this because they are aware of the meetings and consultations a few days ago, between the governor and the former President and the governor’s statement concerning the ambitions of some politician. “Our suspicion is that those desperate aspirants are sponsoring publications to take advantage of supposed disagreement between the two leaders of the PDP. The government urges the political aspirants to leave the governor and the former President out of the Governorship race and concentrate on what they would do; their agenda for the people of the state”. He stressed that the government had no hand in the opinion article which misrepresented part of the historical facts of Bayelsa. He stated for instance that the governor sat with the former President at the burials of Chief Gordon Bozimo and former Governor Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. He also cautioned all aides and supporters to concentrate on propagating the politics and programmes of the state which are two numerous to mention. He urged the people not to fall for the antics of such desperate politicians who have devised clearly, a strategy of division in the party. Soriwei who said that it was not in the character of the governor to make public any assistance to people in Bayelsa, the Ijaw nation and indeed the country public, said that there was so much anger in the PDP because of the desperate activities of desperate politicians.