A member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Adebayo Balogun (Ibeju-Lekki federal Constituency, Lagos) has given reasons for the need to construct a coastal road from Akodo Ise to Victoria Island, Lagos. In a chat with reporters at the weekend, the lawmaker said that it is evident that the existing road infrastructure in Ibeju Lekki especially the Lekki axis, cannot accommodate the emerging industrial revolution in the area. He noted that already, there are serious damages being caused to the existing roads. He also urged the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to commence the process of completing the whole stretch of the Port Harcourt – Lagos coastal road. The Ministry in the interim, should make provisions in the 2020 budget estimates for the construction of a coastal road from Ise in Ibeju Lekki to Victoria Island in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State, he said. Recall that on Thursday, the lawmaker moved a motion in the issue titled; ‘ Urgent Need to Construct the Lekki Coastal Road from Akodo Ise to Victoria Island, Lagos State. In the motion, he noted that Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area is located along the coastal line of Lagos State and is probably the fastest growing economic and industrial hub especially with establishment of the Lekki Free Trade Zone which sits on a total land area of 16,500 hectares. He further stated that “Dangote Oil Refinery which is the largest in Africa with its conglomerates like, a fertilizer plant, a petrochemical plant and a sub – sea gas pipeline project, is expected to commence operations at the local government in less than 2 years’ time. ” And with a daily production of 650,000 barrels per day will transform the Nigerian economy from a net importer of refined petroleum products to a net exporter of petroleum products; He also noted ‘that the Annual Statistics Bulletin (ASB) Report for 2019 shows that the value of exports of petroleum products by the country in 2018 amounted to $54.513 billion while its import was $54.645 billion, making export growth by $16.53 billion in 2018 from $37.983 billion in 2017 to have no impact as the value of imports already outweigh exports.’ According to him, the Lekki Deep Sea Port, which will also be sited along the coastal line of Lekki will, after completion, increase the revenue from Lagos ports from its present value of over N250b to over N600b, as importers who are currently using the plots of neighbouring countries would switch to the Lekki Deep Sea Port; “The Lekki Coastline road starting from Akodo Ise in Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area to Ahmadu Bello Way, Victoria Island in Eti-Osa Local Government Area is part of the Federal Government’s proposed Port Harcourt to Lagos Coastal road project. “The Niger Delta Development Commission in partnership with Ondo State Government has awarded a contract for the construction of coastal road from Araromi in Ondo State to Akodo Ise in Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area,” he said. Balogun noted that another Apapa Traffic Gridlock situation may happen in Ibeju Lekki Local Government Area which can negate all the benefits enumerated above, if a futuristic and proactive measure is not taken to expand the road infrastructure. “If the economic projects that contribute majorly to the federation’s account are not nurtured for sustainability, we might gradually be walking ourselves into a state of permanent recession,” he warned.