We have by far too many things to do than to begin to be bogged down by what someone did or did not do or what he left behind. I cannot begin to describe in the open to you the Ogun State we inherited. I cannot begin to describe it to you. I will not because I have made up my mind that publicly and privately, I will not discuss anything about the last administration. We have resolved to draw the line and move forward from there. We need to be focused”. Those were the words of Ogun State governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, while addressing party leaders at the state congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abeokuta, last week. To demonstrate the precarious financial situation of the state, the governor disclosed that he had to take a loan of N7 billion from five banks to pay the May salaries of the state’s public sector workforce. This was made possible, he explained, through the goodwill he enjoys with the managing directors of the banks. The commitment of the governor, right from the outset, to prioritising his government’s salary obligations to its workers in line with his campaign promise is commendable. We hope that he will continue in this spirit throughout his tenure. For, he could easily have taken the path of least resistance by following the advice of the state’s head of service who reportedly told the governor that “You are new in government and everybody understands that you assumed office and we don’t have expectation of you paying salaries now. They (workers) will understand. There is very little or no money. We can talk to them”. However, this problem no doubt arose because of the poor and untidy transition from the government of the former governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, to the new administration. The committee set up by the then governor-elect to coordinate and plan the transition with the state government team claimed it was being frustrated at every turn. This was not peculiar to Ogun. In many states, new governors have little meaningful information to work with. Precious time is thus lost as such governors cannot hit the ground running. It is perhaps necessary to enact laws prescribing handover processes from one administration to a new one, which must be strictly adhered to by exiting office holders and stipulating sanctions for any violation of such laws. Beyond this, however, if the situation he inherited in Ogun State is as bad as the governor has painted it, his administration has a responsibility to find out what went wrong, who committed what infractions and bring them to book in accordance with the law. This is not a question of sentiments. What is at stake are public resources, the use or misuse of which must be accounted for. This is not, however, to sanction witch-hunting of former office holders for partisan considerations. In deciding to draw the line on the past and just continuing with his administration’s programme, Mr. Abiodun’s dilemma is understandable. He is obviously sensitive to the impatience of Nigerians with leaders that continually blame their predecessors for the problems they inherited rather than working to solve such problems. That does not mean any proven infractions of the past must not be confronted and remedied. But then, Mr Abiodun cannot continue to rely on loans to pay salaries. It is unsustainable in the long run. Therefore, his administration must creatively design new means to enhance the state’s internally generated revenue as well as reduce its dependence on federal allocation. Even if loans are to be obtained, this must be for productive purposes such as provision of infrastructure rather than for recurrent expenditure. 