ADETUTU: Hello Omobola, please my mother retired in the year 2005, as a principal catering assistant ll Grade level 10 step 2. Her name is Adetutu. The problem is that she was not given monthly pension from 2005 till August 2010. Since then some people have been calling her from Head of Civil Service Commission that she should give them money before they will pay but she ignored them; not until February 2018, they called her back again that President Buhari has given them the go-ahead to pay. They swindled her and collected N240, 000 and she paid to their different account number with their names. Please,  endeavour to help her out as we have made so many complaints, she is 74 years old. When is she going to enjoy the fruit of her labour? Thank you PTAD: We will never request for cash to process pension. Pensioners are advised to be wary of fraudsters as pension payment is free. We require the pensioner’s telephone number to enable us get additional information. JOHNSON: My complaints is non-payment of pension              salary from August 2008.               My name is Johnson. I wish to complain that my pension has not  been paid since since August, 2008. I call on the Executive Secretary of PTAD: The pensioner is currently receiving monthly pension payment and is owed pension arrears.  PTAD ensures pension arrears are cleared as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. SANMI: This is for someone very close and dear to me. I retired as an Assistant Director of Education (GL 15) in December 1996, after 35 years of  service . My gratuities were paid in 1998 when the value of the money had fallen more than 100 per cent. I started drawing my pensions in year 2000. I am a federal pensioner.  I have not enjoyed any of the pension increases approved since year 2000. In April 2009, my pensions were harmonised to enable me enjoy the 142 per cent increment approved in year 2000. The voucher was prepared. This included the arrears accruing from year 2000. That month, I was paid only the harmonised monthly amount. The arrears were not paid even up till now. Later this harmonised amount was reduced by 50 per cent for no reason. Despite series of verification and completion of complaints forms, no action has been taken. I submitted a letter of complaint to the Akure Office of the Public Complaints Office in April 2014, without any success still. I am now 76 and I am still being denied my entitlements. This complaint and relevant documents including my Bank statement of accounts are in my records with PTAD. PTAD: We require additional information to enable us investigate and resolve the pensioner’s complaint. Mr Owoeye should please send the pensioner’s name and telephone number to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us speak to him.