Browsing through the internet shortly before the presidential election, my eyes caught a piece by one Abiodun Egunjobi writing on an online platform. It was titled: “Petition to arrest and prosecute President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria for crimes against humanity”, and addressed to the Office of the Prosecutor, Information and Evidence Unit, at the International Criminal Court at The Hague, in the Netherlands. “Dear Madame Prosecutor,” the piece began, “May I please seize this opportunity to present to you this very important request on behalf of the country Nigeria. It is a disheartening exposition on both Nigeria and international peace and security that we all cherish. ‘’Popular wisdom counsels that it takes the failure, unwillingness or inaction of good people to act for evil men and geniuses to take over and run a country. As the defender of last resort of the free world, the honorable court is called upon, in this instance, to act, not only in defense of seemingly helpless Nigerians but to mitigate the threats to humanity and international peace and security posed by the conduct of current President Buhari.” The piece then went on to describe what the writer felt were the shortcomings of President Buhari’s administration in Nigeria, adducing reasons why Mr President should be promptly presented before the ICC for prosecution for “crimes against humanity.” To date several instances of the crimes indicated below had been carried out and continued to be carried on unabated by the Buhari administration: Upon reading the article, I was immediately reminded of two incidents-one about late American president Gerald Ford and, the other, comments and actions attributed to Mike Pompeo, the American Secretary of State on the almost two decades-old American war in Afghanistan. At a point in his administration, President Gerald Ford’s then 18- year-old daughter had, in answer to reporters’ question about a policy issue her father just pronounced remarked that ‘the president was stupid’ for adopting the policy in question. Reporters hounded President Ford.  He was asked for his comments on his 18 year-old daughter’s assertion. Ford explained that he saw the clip of his daughter’s comment on television. “She said the president is stupid,” he exclaimed and then proceeded to say that his daughter, as an American citizen with citizenship rights has the right to say whatever she liked or disliked about the president or any policy pronouncements. “She didn’t say my father is stupid. How many 18 year-olds in America pass worse comments about the president and presidential policies on a daily basis, he asked? Millions! It turned out to be a presidential defense of a citizen’s rights. End of story. The other incident is recent and it involved the attempts by several human rights activists and organisations to have ICC investigate, allegations of several human rights abuses leveled against American service and other personnel in the prosecution of the war in Afghanistan over a period of years. Secretary Pompeo promptly rejected the calls and placed visa and other travel restrictions on ICC personnel wanting to travel to the US for such investigations. Against these backdrops, I thought about the request by a Nigerian citizen to have a sitting Nigerian president docked by ICC. Not in your life, I concluded! Americans defend, not only their presidents to the end, they equally defend their citizenship rights absolutely. How can and why do we Nigerians do this to ourselves? A few weeks back, at a celebratory event marking President Buhari’s victory at the polls, the Master of Ceremonies had rhetorically asked the thousand-plus guests at event how many of them have not been beneficiaries of one government largesse or the other; such as using government vehicles to convey children to school, running errands to markets, etc. ‘Let such a person stand up,’ the MC exhorted. Buhari quietly stood up to a thunderous ovation. He was the only person who could stand up. And this is the man, Nigeria’s epitome of integrity, dedicated honest service, decency and what else have you, being requested for prosecution by ICC for the impunities of officers in his administration! The moral of the incidents could be summarized as follows: Nigerians have the absolute rights to say anything they wish to say about their president, especially within Nigeria, which no other nationals enjoy; because of this, they are the only ones who can try their president on any allegations. At the same time, no Nigerian has the recourse or right to invite other countries or international agency/ies to come and arrest an ordinary Nigeria not to talk of a sitting Nigerian Head of State for prosecution. It is the height of all that is unpatriotic! For that reason, Abiodun Egunjobi is best advised to try to execute his request all by himself. Mr. President must be accorded respect and defended by Nigerians at all times. That is what people in civilised climes do for their presidents, not throw them under the bus! It is an invitation to the security organisations to get to work. Long Live Nigeria!