Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday assured survivors of the Ijegun fire incident that everything will be done by the government to bring comfort to them. The governor gave the assurance when he visited the survivors at the Gbagada General Hospital yesterday. Sanwo-Olu who spoke with the survivors at the hospital said, “I have encourage them and ordered that anything that will bring comfort to the survivors should be done immediately. I have assured them that we will ensure that they all remain alive.” He, however, advised that people should always stay away from things that can bring loss of lives and property in Lagos. Answering reporters’ question earlier before the visit, Sanwo-Out said the incident was unfortunate, adding that the state government has responded officially to the unfortunate incident. The governor said: “A lot of our agencies have responded immediately and have done the needful to ensure the residents get utmost care. “It is a secure site. It is a site that NNPC raised an immediate alarm. It is a national treasure and asset that has led to security concerns. Issues of pipeline vandalism are a serious national issue. So the federal Government is taking it up officially. “For me and my deputy, we refused to make a camera show there not because we are not doing the necessary things to those that suffered burns or the relatives of those that died in the unfortunate incident but because it is a crime scene and security operatives are working there. “You will realise that rather than visit and make camera show, we have since the commencement of the explosion taken full responsibility for the care of the survivors in the hospitals. They are responding to treatment, it is unfortunate that some of the survivors suffered severe burns.” The governor pleaded with Lagosians to understand the gravity of vandalising pipelines, saying: “these are very dangerous things. We all should desist from making economic gains from something like this. They are very volatile and dangerous. People should not, at the risk of economic benefit, endanger their lives and others within the community.” He promised that the government will continue to work with the security operatives so that “we will not shy away from apprehending culprits and let then face the full wrath of the law. “We are urging the residents within the community to contact the emergency toll-free lines whenever they see people going closer to the facilities at odd hours, they should contact the RRS and others immediately. “They can easily come and apprehend the perpetrators. We are hoping that we can get a lasting solution to the issue”, he said.