Multichoice Africa has announced the launch of a new 24-hour news service, Newzroom Afrika, on the DStv platform across the continent on DStv channel 405 from Monday, July 15, 2019. The channel will be available to active customers on all DStv packages. The expansion of news service comes just two months after the service launched in South Africa to delight viewers with programming that includes Your View Africa Round Table, hosted by South African talk-show veteran, JJ Tabane. The show gives an in-depth look at issues across the continent while interacting and engaging with the relevant subject experts. Another show to look out for is Newz World, whose lead anchor Vic Naidoo gives a round-up of continental and global news with audience engagement and an alternative to traditional news bulletins, in the form of round-table discussions. DStv viewers on the continent will also have the pleasure of interacting with respected news practitioners such as lead anchor, Cathy Mohlahlana, South African politics stalwart, Thulasizwe Simelane and self-confessed sports-fiend, Marc Lewis, alongside many others on-air personalities who form part of the channel’s compelling line-up. “We believe viewers are hungry for a different perspective that is fully independent and puts their interests first. We made sure in designing our editorial structure and choosing the members of our editorial board to hardwire the highest levels of rigour and independence into our newsroom,” says Thabile Ngwato, co-founder and co-CEO of Newzroom Afrika. “We are excited to be broadcasting into the rest of Africa, as this has been the plan from the very beginning.” Thokozani Nkosi, also a co-founder and co-CEO of Newzroom Afrika, said: “Our aim is to get viewers, all over the continent as well as across the globe, excited about news again. We provide verified, credible and authoritative news that people can trust to keep them informed on issues that matter most to them.” The CEO of General Entertainment at MultiChoice, Yolisa Phahle, said: “We are proud to bring this news channel to more of our DStv customers across the continent. The addition of Newzroom Afrika will increase the diversity of voices and perspectives in Africa’s news media space. We remain committed to delivering quality news and current affairs that keep our customers updated and informed about what’s happening in the world.” Newzroom Afrika is available for streaming on-the-go via smartphones, tablets or desktops through the DStv Now app and will be available on all DStv packages.