The imminent re-introduction of History as a stand-alone subject, at the start of the 2019-2020 academic session in September, could not have come at a better time. Try driving without rear mirrors; and see how near-impossible such an exercise would be. That is how impossible it is to build a fractious nation like Nigeria, without history. This change of policy also underscores the alarming lack of introspection that often goes with putting in place public policy, this time the de-stressing of history. It is good History is back, courtesy of a Federal Ministry of Education directive that it be returned. Still, it is only fair to note that History was never really out of the curriculum. It was only treated as an outcast. At the basic and secondary stages, it was diffused with subjects like Civics and Government. At the tertiary level, it suddenly became infra-dig for universities to offer History, without highfalutin-sounding sidekicks like “International Relations”, and “Strategic Studies”. The moot point seemed to be that History belonged to the past, and it must stay that way. Some even posit it is the age of science and technology, in which History had become an anachronism – what hubris! How do you even begin to master your environment, and using science to forge the requisite technology to boss that environment, without knowing about and mastering your past, which History teaches? Indeed, Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, put his finger on the matter, with his outrage, expressed in a 2016 press conference: “History is so fundamental to self-knowledge, identity, and understanding where you came from; and therefore where you might be headed. So, how can a subject such as History be excised from the curriculum of any school?” he queried. “Can you imagine that? History of all subjects? What is wrong with History? Or maybe I should ask: what is wrong with some people’s head?” Again, that was a sharp rebuke, of the seeming lack of deep introspection, while that curriculum was being designed. The present Federal Government has done well with this laudable move. But while even correcting this obvious flaw, it is imperative to stress the need for vibrant dialogue between policy makers, represented by government at all levels, and education technocrats, who draw up the curricula. It is not enough to just call in education experts, decree the latest government policy and ask these professionals to draw out a document that fits into the new government thinking. It is far better and much more productive to engage in serious meeting of minds over the proposals, go into vigorous debates and first establish if the new policy thrust was worth the while. If that had been done, the Basic Education curriculum of 2007, which eventually took off in the 2009/2010 academic session, would have had a better input across the board. If that had been the case, toning down the teaching and learning of History would have been unnecessary. The 2007 revised Basic Education curriculum aimed to correct the poor focus on human capacity development and poverty eradication, in the old curriculum. But how are these goals and the learning of History contradictory?  Indeed, how do you achieve material poverty eradication by first eradicating intellectual wealth, about your own being and environment, that History richly offers? Education experts must come to the policy party as active partners, not passive recipients of diktats, only buoyed by the perks and allowances such sessions offer. They must vigorously engage the government of the day, share knowledge and earn respect. That way, both parties would come out with the best possible mixes. That would make the curriculum well and truly rich; and the pupil-beneficiaries, well and truly blessed. With the re-introduction of History as stand-alone, the government must put in place adequate plans to ensure History teachers in the system are freed to do the job. The new policy should also gear universities to produce fresh History teachers, even if the overall focus is on science and technology. Welcome yesterday.  That is the only way today is sure; and tomorrow is re-assured. Welcome History, to the school curriculum.