Nigerian football fans will directly benefit from the new sponsorship deal that Budweiser sealed with English Premier League, as well as Spain’s LaLiga, which aim to bring fans closer to the international leagues. Managing Director, International Breweries, Annabelle Degroot, on Tuesday made this known stating that beyond Nigeria, fans across five continents and in more than 20 countries have also been tipped for exciting time starting from the 2019/20 season. Speaking in Lagos Degroot, explained that Budweiser has initiated “Be A King” campaign, which will inspire fans by connecting them with the kings of the Premier League, in one of the ways to get connected to the fans. She explained that,”Budweiser has a track record of innovative football sponsorships, including partnering with the FIFA World Cup over many years. “We look forward to working together to bring our new partnership to life and capturing the imagination of our fans all over the world including here in Nigeria.” “We are excited to kick off these long-term partnerships with the English Premier League and LaLiga, two world-class football leagues. “We know how much our consumers love football and that is why it is important to us as a company to help them enjoy these great football moments in grand, unique and exciting ways only Budweiser can bring to life. “We are passionate about football, and so are our consumers, so we couldn’t be prouder to celebrate the sport, the players, and most importantly, the fans.” According to Marketing Director, International Breweries Tolulope Adedeji, a nationwide plan will soon be unfolded for a direct impact as the leagues set to get underway for the new season. “Football occupies a unique place in our culture. Nigerians are passionate about football as it unites us. It has the power to transcend societal barriers such as tribe, language and religion. “So, the “Be A King” campaign is global and it will be domesticated nationwide here in the country. Football is not just the most popular sport in Nigeria, it plays an important role in the lives of the people who are endeared to it.” Premier League Interim Chief Executive, Richard Masters, confirmed the new sponsorship stating that “We are delighted to announce Budweiser as a new Premier League partner. Budweiser has a track record of innovative football sponsorships, including partnering with the FIFA World Cup™ over many years. We look forward to working together to bring our new partnership to life and capturing the imagination of our fans all over the world.” On his own part, the President of the Spanish LaLiga, Javier Tebas, expressed the brand’s commitment to growing the passion for football in Nigeria. “This historic partnership with Budweiser will only add to the growing excitement and anticipation for this year’s season and we’re thrilled to have them as partners. This agreement will, no doubt, strengthen the global visibility of Spanish clubs,” he said. The 2019–20 La Liga season, also known as La Liga Santander is the 89th since its establishment. It 17 August 2019 -24 May 2020, while, the Premier League’s 2019/20 season starts on Friday 9 August 2019. Sunday 17 May 2020 is scheduled to be the final day of the Premier League campaign. read also: 2019/2020 English Premier League: Iwobi, Ndidi face tricky opening month