•After five years, UNIZIK suspends lecturer accused of forgery, plagiarism Mr. Peter Ekemezie of the Department of Pure and Industrial Chemistry at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University in Awka, Anambra State, has been suspended by the governing council of the university. Ekemezie’s suspension is for offences ranging from alleged forgery of Bachelor of Science Certificate of the University of Port Harcourt and using the forged certificate to seek and hold academic position at the university, and using plagiarised academic publications to support his application for promotion to senior lecturer. Mr. Ekemezie has been having a running battle with the university for over five years. In 2013, a university committee found him guilty of using a forged undergraduate degree to obtain a job at the university. The university authority at that time ignored the findings of the committee. A few years after, Ekemezie was promoted to senior lecturer, despite revelations that he had submitted plagiarised publications to support his application for promotion.  Between 2013 and 2019, Ekemezie was treated with kid gloves by the university’s administration, to the embarrassment of students and colleagues at the institution. We commend the current administration and governing council of UNIZIK for resolving a matter that has dragged unnecessarily for five years. Since allegations of academic and other crimes by Ekemezie first surfaced in 2013, the impression had been given that UNIZIK has the freedom to operate in a normless space. Both Ekemezie and leaders of the university acted with unmitigated impunity for five years until the arrival of an administration and a council committed to sustenance of probity. The suspension of Ekemezie while he pursues his case of allegedforgery in court is, though long overdue, is a highly welcome intervention to save the image of UNIZIK and of academia in the country.  Apart from the irony and embarrassment of having a senior academic with a forged undergraduate certificate stay five years in a job that demands the highest form of respect for knowledge, it is ennobling that mechanisms for self-regulation of federal and state universities  in the country have been restored to rescue UNIZIK from an embarrassing style of governance. But the slowness of the wheel of justice in UNIZIK must be seen for what it is: systemic failure that had arisen from lack of will on the part of important officers of the institution to do the right thing at the right time. Although the primary culprit may be Ekemezie, there are many other officers of the university who have failed to sustain the standard of professional ethics expected from them. All officials of the university that had kept mum over the violation of academic and ethical standards deserve to be exposed and shamed for condoning Ekemezie’s disregard for the  fundamental value of higher education: commitment to moral and academic integrity. Certainly, the doubt that may have been generated about the credibility of UNIZIK in the last five years could have been avoided, had the registrar, vice-chancellor, and members of the governing council done their job in good time. All persons who by acts of omission or commission have participated in preventing Ekemezie from facing the consequence of his actions in the last five years ought to be made to account for their actions in full measure. We also commend the university’s call for verification of credentials of all staff. This order promises to restore the tradition of scrutiny of certificates that has formed the foundation of universities across the globe. Instead of waiting for elaborate and expensive visitations  to individual universities, we implore the agency with the remit to ensure quality in the universities, the National Universities Commission, to insist that all universities engage in continual self-audit, to prevent the likes of Ekemezie from obtaining jobs in our university system. We also call for speedy trial of the case of forgery against Ekemezie. It is risky for the culture of corruption and impunity that is already widespread in the country to become rooted in the educational sector, as it almost did at UNIZIK. A situation where a lecturer does not possess the basic qualifications to teach in any level of the educational system is bound to destroy academic standards and lead to miseducation of the country’s future leaders.