The human skull is always linked with superstition: good luck or bad luck.  Over all, however, it’s a symbol of death and mortality. Indeed, at a period when AIDS symbolized a virtual death sentence, the skull and cross bones helped to push the scare! Aside, people react in a certain way to human skull. Some are tagged cultist and Satan worshiper for liking human skull. If you hang a human skull on your wall or wear anything that resembles it, tongues will wag that you belong to a secret cult. But one artist, Femi Kinrin, in his inaugural solo art exhibition, entitled Humanity; dared to display ten large human skull paintings.  To him, as the human skull is a universal language. Did Kinrin consider how people would respond? “While creating these works, it never came to my mind that this is what people associate with the symbol of the human skull. How people will respond to the paintings wasn’t part of my consideration. It was not something I thought of. The last thing an artist should think of, in the process of creating a work of art, is how the public would react to the finished product. Whether it is going to sell or be accepted shouldn’t be the business of the artist. This is a serious distraction and it kind of interrupts the creative process,” the artist explained. “We (artists) shouldn’t try to control or restrict ourselves while creating a work of art. The creative process should just happen and the work should be shown and let the public react. The more controversial the piece is, the more it’s talked about, the more the work is in debate, the more relevant it becomes,” he buttressed further. In the ongoing exhibition, which opened on Saturday, July 20, at Signature Gallery in Lagos, the artist explored expressionless features of the human skull, “I have employed the human skull as the theme for my paintings because as a visual artist, it represents a subject I have chosen to explore in my quest to better understand colours and broaden my tonal range, and as a citizen of planet earth, the human skull represents Humanity.” The painter doesn’t think that an artwork is finished “until the whole community has participated; the art critics, the collectors, the gallery owners, the layman, the art lovers and the press. Your work is not completed till you show it and get reactions from these people.” Humanity to him stresses the point that human should be seen as human and not by their religion, their skin colour or their ethnic group. “I like to see humans as humans, not as white or black, Christian or Muslim, Yoruba, Hausa or Igbo. The human skull represents this ideology for me. It is a universal symbol that represents human beings, when we see a human skull we do not deduce from the skull if it is for a person that belonged to a particular race or tribe. We just know it belonged to a human being. I believe if majority of Nigerians saw things this way the country would grow faster.” Kinrin’s painting technique involves the rendition of vertically juxtaposed background. He is a figure-painting enthusiast; and is very passionate about the art of drawing. This zest reflects in his works, with lines linking to one another, to form human skull. The artist from Kogi State skilfully painted the skulls with subtle colours that made the works fascinating. You don’t notice the skull.  Rather, you notice the bright colours because they have this soothing effect on you. Indeed, you forget you are looking at skulls! This painstaking technique, he called Ice Cream. The paintings on view have different shades of pink, blue and yellow as the dominant colours, including white. The works titled Late Nights and Early Mornings, Skull and Nifemi’s Smiley, A Quartet, Blown Away, Diamond Skull, Macaroni, Diagonal Edge, Skull on a Rock and Ice Cream Rock Star; all oil on canvas, will be on view till July 30. Some of the paintings are achieved with a dripping technique, which he manipulated so well by blending the colours with the subject and the background. That makes you enjoy looking at both the subject and the background. What comes to mind, while looking at the painting, is ice cream: you just want to lick the work because the paintings are shouting ice cream! “This effect is what I was trying to achieve, even when I am addressing hard topical issue. I like to say it in a way that it lightens up your mood. I am happy that my work has this effect on people, it was actually what I set out to achieve with the colours, even though the paintings depict skulls.” Kinrin teaches drawing and painting in the School of Art and Design, Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja. With this body of works on display, he is passing one message to the public: tribalism and religious sentiment, he revealed are the problems facing Nigeria today and not corruption. “Personally, I have always thought that the biggest problem facing the country is/was not corruption but tribalism and religious sentiment. We as a nation reason subjectively rather than objectively; and that has been the bane of the problems facing the country and its people. This has brought about a lot of rot in every sector of the system,” he said. The issue of tribal and religious bigotry, he noted, are common occurrence in Nigeria, “to see presidents, governors, directors and managers fill up their cabinets and vacant positions with their kinsmen and people who worship in the same church or mosque as themselves, instead of seeing the humanity in the available options and applicants, and judging them based on their track record, experience, intellect, moral values and work ethic. “The point I am trying to make is that developed nations aren’t developed because they aren’t corrupt but because they have earlier in their history realised that the question should be how experienced or efficient an individual is rather than what language the person speaks or where they worship. When people are to be given a task to perform or when they are undergoing an interview for a vacant official position, objectivity should override subjectivity and experience and track record should override ethnicity and religion.” Kinrin was born on the 19th of October 1981. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Fine Arts from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria in 2004, majoring in painting. Aside his teaching job, he is a practicing studio artist and married with children.