The Sangotedo Market in Eti Osa, Lagos, has been shut down by the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), due to indiscriminate dumping of refuse and poor hygiene practices by traders which has created serious environmental problem in the area. According to a press release by LAWMA’s director of Public Affairs, Folashade Kadiri, on Friday evening, the closure was effected following the state governor, Babajide Sanwoolu’s executive order on traffic and sanitation matters, which stresses government’s zero tolerance for environmental abuse, including illegal and indiscriminate dumping of refuse and defacing the environment. The agency noted, that, government’s efforts at sanitising the area were being thwarted by unhygienic activities of traders, who had consistently violated environmental laws and refused to patronise assigned waste collectors. It stressed that the management was working round the clock to rid the state of waste, necessitating the introduction of “Lagos at 4 am” operation and other laudable initiatives, aimed at restoring environmental integrity in the state. The agency urged residents to support the state government’s quest to establish a sustainable and habitable environment that would be the pride of everyone. In a separate development, the Lagos State task force has impounded over 155 commercial motorcycles and 17 commercial buses for allegedly violating traffic rules at the ‘Ikeja-Along’ axis of the state in the last two months. Taofiq Adebayo, Head of the Public Affairs Unit of the task force, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), yesterday, that the exercise, which began since mid-May, was meant to control traffic and enable Lagos residents get to their destinations in the shortest possible time. ”Our major objective at that point is to control traffic. However, our major headache at that point has been the activities of commercial motorcycles, picking and dropping passengers on the highway. ”If you notice, the road is narrow at that point, as we have many people crossing the rail line , motorists driving toward the airport and people also crossing the highway. ”We only want to decongest the traffic, that’s why we have our men stationed there. The number would have been higher but we observed that they have started complying with traffic rules,” he said. According to Adebayo, the task force is also working with the Lagos State Government Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) to rid the state of street traders who disturb the free flow of traffic. He said the exercise would continue with the new Executive Order from Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu to clamp down on traffic offenders.