Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has pledged to upgrade facilities at the Adeoyo General Hospital, Ring Road, Ibadan, saying he would make the hospital a medical tourist destination in the country. The governor also promised to ensure that the radiology unit of the hospital is completed and commissioned for use within his first 100 days in office. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the governor made the promises during an on-the-spot assessment of the medical facility. The governor also asked the management and staff of the hospital to join hands with the government in restoring the glory of the hospital. He equally pledged to re-position the hospital and take the facility to enviable heights. Governor Makinde said: “If we do the right thing in this hospital, it can become the medical tourist destination for the country. If we perform very well, we will let the whole world know what we are doing here, so I want you to work with us in the journey to re-position this hospital to have its glory back. I know it is possible and doable.” The governor further stated that there was a huge gap between what he expected to meet in the hospital and what he met on ground, adding, however, that the problem is not about the capacity of the staff but the unavailability of equipment. He said: “Health is one of the pillars that this administration wants to focus on and we believe that if we have a healthy population, we will have more productivity.” Governor Makinde stated further that the government will support the hospital in terms of logistics, mobilisation and security. “We will come back to you with the specific agenda on how to develop this hospital and make it an institution that can attract patients from all over the country apart from taking care of our immediate environment.” In his remarks, the Chief Consultant of the hospital, Dr. Femi Adesanya, appreciated the governor and his entourage for the visit, promising to support the government’s vision to turn around the fortunes of the hospital and improve the health sector.