Mr. Sam Omatseye, the Editorial Board Chairman of The Nation newspaper has been named a Paul Harris Fellow by the Rotary Club International. The award was conferred on him recently by the District Governor, of Rotary Club, Gbagada, Lagos, Kola Sodipo. According to Sodipo, the Paul Harris Fellow is one of the honours and recognition which the Rotary Foundation to deserving men and women. The Paul Harris Fellow programme recognises individuals who contribute, or who have contributions made in their name, of $1,000 to The Rotary Foundation of Rotary International. The honour was established in 1957 to show appreciation for contributions that support our Annual Fund, PolioPlus, or an approved Foundation grant. While acknowledging Omatseye’s gestures through the donation, he urged him to keep serving humanity as best he can. “I want to thank you for contributing the sum of $1000 to Rotary Club International. This fund is put in a pool of fund that is invested to continually do good all over the world,” he said, adding, “You never can tell where this money will go because when we give here, and they give in well over 200 countries and geographical location of the world, where Rotary is also established, it helps in alleviating poverty, it helps in the improvement of health, especially in the eradication of polio which is the priority programme of our foundation and it also helps to build goodwill and peace in the world while not forgetting water and sanitation.” The high-point of the event was the presentation of the Club’s certificate of recognition and pin which has the bust of the founder, Paul Harris on it. While making the presentation, the district governor pointed out that the foundation, established 1905, allows its members to carry out various humanitarian services across the world. Specifically, he said, “The Foundation gives the fellowship to those who have given a minimum of $1000 to the organisation in recognition of their benevolence and support for human services. And for someone who gives multiple of $1000 every year, you’re of as a member of the Paul Harris Society worldwide. When it adds up to $10000, you’re recognised as a major donor of Rotary International. When it gets up to $250,000, you’re recognised as member of the Arch Klumph Society, named after the sixth president of Rotary International, who established the foundation in 1917 from the proceeds of that convention. He started with $26 5 but now it has grown to well over $1.6b in terms of assets and investments. That money is continuously invested and its proceed are sent to all the clubs and districts all over the world to support various humanitarian services. So if you are an Arch Klumph Society m you must have given up to $250,000. In our district we have a lot of people who are in that category including Austin Avuru, Alh. Aliko Dangote, Kensington Adebutu, Emeka Offor, Olawale Smart Cole and a host of others. And you don’t have to give all at once. Once you make that commitment you can be giving your donation in peace meal. You could say I want to give over the next three years or five years. Speaking on the benefits of the award, Sodipo said, “The benefit is that you give and your good work is appreciated by people all over the world even those you don’t know. You can imagine as little as 50 cent can help immunize two children against polio, another communicable disease. $1000 can give a community borehole waster that they don’t have before. You can also use the $1000 to furnish a computer laboratory for a school. Those are the multiple effects. The pin confers on him that pride. When people that know about it will know he is a humanist, he has assisted it in relieving the sufferings of the masses. And for us at Rotary International, that money he gave is not spent in the Rotary year. It is invested. Three years later, 50 per cent of it comes back to our district, where we give to the club to do little humanitarian services. The other 50 per cent is not spent but invested in world fund to help project financing. So it has a multiplier effect.” Rotary started with the vision of one man — Paul Harris. The Chicago attorney formed the Rotary Club of Chicago on 23 February 1905, so professionals with diverse backgrounds could exchange ideas, form meaningful, lifelong friendships, and give back to their communities. In February 1907, Harris was elected the third president of the Rotary Club of Chicago, a position he held until the fall of 1908. Toward the end of his club presidency, Harris worked to expand Rotary beyond Chicago. Some club members resisted, not wanting to take on the additional financial burden. But Harris persisted and by 1910 Rotary had expanded to several other major U.S. cities. Harris died on 27 January 1947 in Chicago at age 78 after a prolonged illness. His death prompted an outpouring of contributions from around the world and his name continues to evoke the passion and support of Rotarians and friends of Rotary.