With the benefit of hindsight the current inflation figures at 0.6 per cent released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) which depicts upsurge in all the 12 Classifications of Individual Consumption by Purpose (COICOP) divisions that yielded the headline index, is anything but cheery news as members of the organised private sector (OPS) have described the so-called gains as insignificant and incapable of inducing socioeconomic growth of the country, reports Charles Okonji The economy, in a manner of speaking, is really not “smiling” despite assurances to the contrary. This is the summary of the submission made by thought leaders within the business landscape while attempting a prognosis of the cause of the parlous state of the economy. The devil is in the details According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) most prices of goods and services dropped considerably last month with inflation figures for June dropping to 11.22 percent, 0.18 percent points lower than the 11.4 percent recorded in May 2019. The report disclosed that inflation figures had in March hit the low point of 11.25 percent, after which it rose again to 11.37 percent in April and 11.4 in May respectively before lowering to 11.22 in June, hence depicting an undulating movement in both directions. NBS’s data displayed that increases were recorded in all the 12 Classifications of Individual Consumption by Purpose (COICOP) divisions that yielded the headline index. Considering month-on-month basis, the headline index increased by 1.07 percent in June 2019, which depicts 0.04 percent rate lower than the 1.11 percent rate recorded in May 2019. However, percentage change in the average composite CPI for the twelve months period ending June 2019 over the average of the CPI for the previous twelve months period stood at 11.29 percent, which is similar to the 11.29 percent recorded in May 2019. Furthermore, the aggregate food index recorded 13.56 percent in June 2019 compared to 13.79 percent in May 2019. The implication is that the rise in the food index was triggered by increases in prices of bread and cereals, meat, oils and fats, potatoes, yam and other tubers, fish, vegetables and fruits. Looking at month-on-month, the food sub-index recorded 1.36 percent in June 2019, dropped by 0.05 percent from 1.41 percent logged in May 2019, while the average annual rate of change of the food sub-index for the twelve-month period ending June 2019 over the preceding twelve-month average was 13.42 percent, 0.05 percent points higher from the average annual rate of change recorded in May 2019. In the report, it was discovered that the urban inflation rate has increased by 11.61 percent in June 2019 from 11.76 percent recorded in May 2019, showing that the rural inflation rate increased by 11.87 percent in June 2019 from 11.08 percent in May 2019. Considering month-on-month basis, the urban index rose by 1.10 percent in June 2019, upward movement of 0.05 from 1.15 percent recorded in May 2019, while the rural index also rose by 1.05 percent in June 2019, showing an upward movement of 0.02 from the 1.07 percent recorded in May 2019. Furthermore, the corresponding 12 month Year-on-Year (Y-o-Y) average percentage change for the urban index stood at 11.65 percent in June 2019, which is less than 11.66 percent reported in the previous month, while the resultant rural inflation rate in June 2019 remained 10.99 percent compared to 10.98 percent documented in May 2019, which again shows an increase. Experts’ views However, the Chairman Economic Research, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Reginald Odia, noted that the drop of 0.6 percent in the inflation rate is not significant, pointing out that it does not have direct positive impact on manufacturing and the real sector in general. Odia stated that the downward drift is very marginal and did not change anything in the general cost of doing business. He maintained that long as the current inflation rate is at double digit, which is 11.22 percent, that no positive impact would be felt on the general economy. “Our main concern is that the inflation rate is still on double digit and until it drops to single digit, the economy will not feel any positive impact. Double digit inflation is already high. “It can only be said to have dropped significantly when it drops to about 9.00 percent or less, otherwise the cost of manufacturing and the general cost of goods and services would still be high, and the players in the economy would continue to struggle and stagger. “This is the situation at the moment, but in the next few days, you will find out that the inflation rate would shoot up again, because there is no significant drop that can make any positive impact at all. “As much as we know that the drop is not significant, though, it is a way forward as we know that it has affected some products across the line. If we can continue like that, then it will be good, but I do not see it being sustained to the extent that can lead to any significant change in the nearest future.” Odia expressed that policies like bank rate (lending rate), have not changed much, saying that business activities in terms of manufacturing and the real sector is still very tough. “Our import rate is still very high; we import almost everything that we consume, including petroleum products.  Recently (few days ago), the country just signed an agreement for exchange of crude oil for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS). That is for Nigeria to give them X amount of crude and in returns for X amount of refined product. All of these cause a lot of fluctuations on inflation,” he emphasised. He maintained that the only way inflation can drop significantly is when Nigeria starts refining its crude oil locally, saying that the demand for forex will drop, and every other parameter would begin to go down. He said, “As long as we are still where we are, I do not see anything that would trigger a significant drop in inflation. “This little drop in inflation is a good move, but it cannot affect consumption positively since it is not significant, this is because drop in inflation cuts across some other barometers. You cannot experience drop in inflation when other factors along the chain are not responding or reacting positively. The drop in inflation that we have seen has not reflected in manufacturing advantageously or to any significant rate.” The MAN boss said that the slight downward shift inflation may have been coming from a particular sector. “We just finished our council meeting and all the concern of manufacturers is that there is no real change experienced. Also, our members just concluded a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, which we complained of high taxation, multiplicities of taxes, and the ease of doing business.  The government has not drawn up a plan, for instance, the ministers are not there and we do not know the direction the government policies would go, whether they are prepared to fight inflation, or to boost investment in the real sector. All these are the things that determine the direction of economy. Currently, the economy is just floating. I will attribute the marginal drop to a little more money that came into the country through oil revenue in the previous month.” Speaking to The Nation in an exclusive interview, the Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf noted that inflation was 11.22 percent year-on-year in June 2019, which is 0.18 percent lower than the May inflation of 11.40 percent. He explained that the 0.18 percent decrease is very marginal. According to him, “The worry is that food inflation remains high at 13.56 percent, up from 13.79 percent in May.  This has implications for poverty and welfare, especially for citizens at the bottom of the pyramid.” The key drivers of food inflation at this time include the security challenges faced by many farming communities across the country, the climate change effect, productivity issues in agriculture and the paucity of commercial agriculture in the country.  All of these may further compound the food security outlook in subsequent months. It is gratifying however, that the core inflation moderated to 8.8 percent in June from 9 percent in May.  This is a reflection of the stable macroeconomic conditions in the past few months. There is liquidity in the foreign exchange market, the foreign reserve is robust and there has been stability in the exchange rate as well.  All of these have impacted positively on core inflation and the economy because of the high import dependent character of the economy. It is imperative to scale up productivity in agriculture, address the climate change issues and improve the security situation in order to improve agricultural output and reduce the risk of food crisis in the country. The current inflation outlook would continue to predispose the CBN to retain its monetary tightening stance, which means the business community would have to contend with a high interest rate regime in the months to come.