In the wake of the death of Precious Owolabi last week during a clash between the police and members of the Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky led Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), in Abuja, Abdulgafar Alabelewe, met with the parents of the 21-year old Owolabi, a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) attached to Channels Television in Abuja. His report. THE last Monday clash between the protesting members of the Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky led Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) and men of the Nigeria Police might have come and gone, but the negative impact it left behind will forever remain indelible in the heart of a Zaria based couple who lost their son, Precious Ayoade Owolabi to a stray bullet during the crossfire. The 21-year old Owolabi, a member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) attached to Channels Television in Abuja, was killed in line of duty, while covering the violent protest that equally claimed the lives of other civilians and a Deputy Commissioner of Police. News of the young Owolabi’s death initially sounded like a nightmare to the family, until his body was sent to their home in the ancient city of Zaria, Kaduna State last Tuesday. That was however nothing until the slain Reporter’s corpse was laid to rest at Wusasa Cemetery amidst tears and anguish by his parents, siblings and relations. Parents of the deceased in particular were still in shock as their son was lowered into the grave, after a funeral service that followed the farewell songs and a heroic final salute from members of the NYSC. Precious’ parents said, their son’s sudden and brutal death was like slicing their hearts and collapsing the whole world on their heads. The father, Mr. Owolabi Ayo, a Deputy Director, at the Department of Haematology, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria, recounted his last physical contact with Precious in Abuja, saying, “Ayoola was with me on the 14th June in Abuja. He brought KFC chicken and said, ‘Daddy, you must have dinner with me, and this is the chicken I want you to take for dinner’. So, we had dinner together, we talked, we discussed about his place of primary assignment and other things. “Up till now, it is just like I am watching a Nollywood movie. Because, I still can’t believe that, my son is dead. I didn’t know that, the straight flight to PhD I wanted for him, was going to be straight flight to heaven……. (crying)… oh my son, my son, my son… “I wanted him to have a straight flight to PhD, because he graduated at the age of 20 years, when some of his age mates are still looking for school cert…. I told him not to worry about work, that God will provide. And we were planning towards that. That was the last thing we discussed physically. “So, when the news of his death came to us on Monday, we were shocked to the bone, because that same day, about 20 minutes before we heard of his death, I sent him a WhatsApp message. Few minutes later, the elder sister called me and asked, Daddy where are you? I told her I was at home, where is mummy? I said she was in her room. Where is Deji? I said he was in his room. She now said, Daddy! Daddy! Go to the back of the house,. I asked her, what happened? You are far away in Abuja and you are asking me to go to the back of the house, to do what? She now said, the Channels Reporter that was reported dead, that was Ayoola. I just felt like the whole world just collapsed on my head! “I don’t know how the Channels Television people got my daughter’s contact. But, that was how the whole thing happened. Like I said, she was in Abuja for just a few days, so, they tracked her down and broke the news to her. Then, she broke the news to us,” he said. Talking about the personality of the late Precious, Mr. Owolabi said, “Precious Ayoola was born on September 16, 1998, by September this year, he would have been 21, he is not up to 23 that has been reported in the media. He was a very good boy, very quiet. Any assignment you give to him, he used to do it to satisfaction. “Growing up was very easy for him, he was a very focused person. He had his secondary education at St. Joseph Seminary here (Samaru), where he passed his SSCE at one sitting. The same year, he passed JAMB and gained admission into University of Ilorin, where he read Theatre and Performing Arts. He graduated last year and started his NYSC. “Getting a place of primary assignment was hectic for him. He was first posted to an NGO, he was rejected there, because they said they didn’t need any Corps member, then we started looking for where we could fix him up, then eventually, he reported back to NYSC and they asked him to look for wherever he could serve. They also asked him where would be appropriate for him, he said, media house. That was how he was posted to Channels Television. “The boy enjoyed the service there. They also enjoyed him; to the extent that, they do gave him work on Sundays, which is supposed to be free for him. For example, this last Sunday, a day before his death, he was supposed to be with his elder sister, who was attending an event in Abuja, but when he was called, he said he was at his place of primary assignment, so they couldn’t see. “Then, there was this training I wanted him to attend in Abuja. But, he sent a text to me, to show you how committed he was to Channels Television. He sent me a text that, he would not be able to do that training because the timing of the classes conflicts with his place of primary assignment. His place of primary assignment was top in his agenda. He was a focused person.” On Precious’ stint with Channels Television, the father said, “from my interaction with my son, Channels Television was very okay for him. He told me how they treated him well, how they use to give him free lunch. That, they kept increasing his monthly stipend that we were even thinking; maybe they wanted to retain him. “While still serving, he had started buying his personal materials. His elder sister ordered for camera tripod for him, he had since received that. In fact, he said, before he finishes his NYSC, I should buy him a camera. That, it costs about N300,000, I told him no problem, I will buy it for you before the end of your service year. But, you know, man proposes, God disposes. I didn’t know this is how it will end. “In fairness to Channels Television, they were very good to him. And he loved the job, despite the fact that, he didn’t read journalism. The only thing I want ask is that, was he deployed to the frontline that day? What there any arrangement for protection that they were supposed make that they failed to make? Because, by the accounts I have read so far, the bullets hit him in the stomach and he was bleeding. In modern practice, a reporter going for such assignment, was supposed to wear a bullet proof jacket, that would have protected him or at least minimize it. “Number two: I learnt that, when he was shot, he was taken to a private hospital that Channels is using. When they couldn’t handle it, they referred him to Garki Hospital or National Hospital. At Garki Hospital, they said they stabilized him, but they were looking for the doctor to operate him, the doctor was nowhere to be found, and he was not on seat. So, they moved him from there to National Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. “If there had not been system failure, my son would have survived this. If the doctor at the Garki Hospital had been around, they would have been able to save his life,” he said. On the violent protest that led to Precious’ death, Mr. Owolabi said the government had not handled the Shi’ites crises well enough. According to him, “In my own opinion, the government has also failed in handling the Shi’ites crises. You took somebody to court, court asked you to release him, but for one reason or the other, you said you will not release him. Now, what is the rationale for keeping him? So, the government is wrong, because so many people have lost their lives, including civilians and security personnel,” he said. My heart has been sliced into two In her own account, mother of the deceased, Mrs. Ejiola Dupe Owolabi, a teacher with the ABU Demonstration Secondary School said, she felt very sad and devastated on hearing news of Precious’ death. “I felt as if they sliced my heart into two.” “Precious was a blessed son. The only difficulty I had about him was his pregnancy. His pregnancy was terrible, in fact, I felt as if I will die with it. That is why I named him Precious. He is precious to me so much. Now I felt as if they sliced my heart into two. “Let me tell you, though he has elder sister and younger brothers, he appears to be different. He was always in the room except if there is some work to be done. He hardly goes out. In fact, he spent his time mostly reading or writing. But, any time I call him to do something for me; he will go and do it quickly. “I watched him carefully, sometimes in the night, he gathered all lamps we have in the house and took them to his room  for night reading in case there is power outage, until he gets tired and sleep. “Precious always made me happy. In fact, because of him I chose to dress well today as you can see. He always wanted to see me look good, if not, I don’t have reason to dress well now,” she said.