ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Congratulations to Nigeria’s Super Eagles in AFCON. Thank God, Buhari signs the AfCFTA. President, please present the ministers. RUGA dead at last? Fellow Nigerians, eat only ‘nonviolent meat’ delivered to you without deaths of our relatives or destruction of our property. Ekiti students scholarship, Hurray! All governors stop stealing youth scholarship funds and resuscitate state scholarship boards. Sorry is not enough without punishment. A punishing jail term and a punishing financial ‘victim’s compensation’ to hurt the crime perpetrator. Sorry is just a word. The ‘sorry’, even if extracted under public outcry was probably given only because of irrefutable CCTV evidence which the perpetrator would probably have been destroyed if the opportunity had arisen.  ‘Sorry’, alone is meaningless to the victim of maniacal violence and no compensation. ‘Sorry’ is also meaningless to us who have also been mentally assaulted by the violent video. Fellow Nigerians insist there is to be no forgiveness without suspension, expulsion, sacking and jail time and a proper ‘deterrent fine’ administered at the discretion of the judge or after the family wins ‘compensation’ through the court. Will there be a pre-trial offer of millions? Is the victim safe from threats and worse violence? And this in a ‘friend’s’ shop. Let him be an example to all, particularly politicians, abusing their power. We must be camera-ready vigilant for all violence- and we are all vulnerable. Vulnerability is not a sign of being vanquished but a state requiring protection. By expectation, but not fact, a senatorial candidate, seeking the toga of ‘Distinguished’ must be respectable and respected. Impossible now. Hopefully this ‘sinator’ will not escape public prosecution and democratic disgust just because of a few questionably sincere apologies. He should resign and go to jail. He is unfit to hold any office. Imagine being a woman receiving not ONE, not TWO, not THREE, not FOUR but FIVE forceful malignantly malicious ‘Dirty Slaps’ from a powerful man who recently begged for votes. Historically ‘The Dirty Slap’ was a popular weapon of humiliation and subjugation by uniforms during our military oppression. Unfortunately it did not die when democracy was resurrected, probably because our democracy was not really resurrected, erected as a skeleton puppet with the military pulling every string – a militocracy. It continues today as a ‘Democracy Dirty Slap’ and we have had many undocumented and documented cases with medical complications including someone slapped to death. Today we add the ‘Sinatorial Democracy Dirty Slap’ rubbishing the Oath of Office, SDGs and the Human Rights of the female victim to the long list of crimes committed under democracy. A slap is not a slap. It is assault. This column has addressed the moral, mental and medically devastating torment and havoc of the ‘Dirty Slap’, the first weapon of attack in Nigeria. Injuries include eye injuries like blindness from cataract, retinal detachment, vitreous haemorrhage and popping out of the eye. The slap can also cause ear injuries like deafness from ruptured ear drum followed by infections and also ringing in the ears. There are also brain injuries from concussion, banging the brain around within the skull, brain swelling, internal brain bleeding and bleeding compressing the brain and death. The ‘Dirty Slap’ is certainly a dangerous weapon especially in the hands of an elected lawmaker ‘Too Young to Respect Fellow Nigerian Women’. I wonder what the ‘sinator’s’ own sisters and mother think of this malignantly outrageous public display of decadence. His wife cannot be pleased. His in-laws should ask if she been a victim of domestic violence?  She will lose the appellation ‘Mrs Distinguished’ or Mrs Senator’ or ‘Senatoress’ even before the ‘instant millionairism’ of ‘Greedy NASS’ membership. No provocation or even tongue lashing justifies a man attacking a woman. When a slap is administered with full male force to a woman’s face, we can only expect the worst. She will bear the mental scars for life. The ‘Dirty Slap’ is cowardice. In Nigeria there is a widely published federal Code of Conduct, SERVICON, for workers and customers in offices.  Would the ‘sinator’ have proceeded if Anthony Joshua stood beside the woman as her brother? The media should bring forward the male relations, brothers, cousins, of the slapped woman to discuss with the ‘Slapping ‘Sinator’ ’. Already the social media reveal many serving lawmakers are accused law-breakers, and have murky pasts as ‘Sinators’. Imagine what this ‘not too young to run’ ‘sinator’ would have said and done if not for the CCTV installed in the adult sex shop. Truth ke? The ‘sinator’ was protected by a morally bereft and impotent paid-for policeman. The policeman ignored the crime-in-progress but nonsense upon nonsense on instruction by ‘the slapping sinator’ actually shamelessly arrested the victim, like happened when you reported crime. He spun a web of lies to extricate himself and only apologized when the tsunami of truth overwhelmed him. Nigerians are used to ‘big’ men and women escaping through the very large loopholes, so carefully enlarged by NASS lawmakers and breakers. Last week’s column dealt extensively with this problem of politicians overstepping their bounds. No one listens to advice. If we the people, Fellow Nigerians to the woman slapped, do not defeat this ‘Slapping ‘Sinator’ ’, every miscreant will have permission to ‘Sinator@Dirty Slap’ every woman in sight without provocation. Time for a full stop to the cowardly ‘Dirty Slap’ by ‘Sinators’ and everyone.