ACTION PLAN: First of all, be sure your partner is open to such an act. There’s nothing worse than attempting this and getting the cold shoulder. Stick to hand holding, maybe even quick kisses (not loud slurps please) save the extras for your bedroom.  It gives people the impression you have no control and decency, and may be a pointer to real communication issues you have with your partner. “I just don’t want his wahala again”, my friend told me a while ago. She never ever wanted to argue with her partner. WHY? You may ask, because she wanted to live in a fantasy world where there would be no argument. You can agree to disagree. Arguments are healthy in a relationship, because we all have different backgrounds, upbringing and views to life, so yes you must argue, NEVER having an argument means someone is compromising, we are not saying keep arguing and fighting from dusk to dawn, but we are saying argue if the need arises and if it is necessary, but just don’t let it get out of hand. Love isn’t all good, all the time. ACTION PLAN: If you are displeased argue your point with love and as logically as possible, don’t always try to make a point, because it’s better to win in love, than win an argument. Disagreements are bound to happen, be calm and loving about it. You don’t necessarily have to have the last say or win an argument. This is an outright NO-NO, if something is wrong, say it the other person cannot read your thoughts. speaking up at the right time is key, it is not healthy to be upset with your partner and start spiting them or keeping malice. keeping your feelings bottled up causes stress, makes you unhealthy, sometimes makes you react badly to others. There is no way you can be happy if you are busy keeping malice it’s a toxic behavior ACTION PLAN: Simply stop it, and start talking so that you can live long. It causes major health issues as well. No point living a life of bitterness because that’s what keeping malice will do to you. Your partner comes back from work, stressed, tired, disoriented and BOOM, you drop the bombshell of his favourite uncle’s death, even before he gets to pull of his work clothes, eat and cool down. The information is so juicy, you just had to share the moment he walked in. Learning how to pick topics of conversations about important issues, like relationship needs, financial obligations, life changing information all have their time and place. Please do not discuss serious topics when someone’s stressed, like at the end of the workday or right before hosting a party. Sometimes you may end up getting a very shocking response. ACTION PLAN: Watch your partner’s mood, be observant, allow them calm down or settle down, don’t drop the bomb at once, take it slowly, watch how they react which will guide on the next words to say. Wisdom is very important, be sensitive enough to know the repercussion of your words, if not properly timed. select an ideal place or location. Holding on to grudges from the past and even present is not a good habit. If your partner makes a mistake LET GO, yes it is not easy to let go, but there is nothing that is exactly easy in life. This attitude will hurt the relationship, cause stress, unnecessary anxiety, bitterness and resentment on all sides. Holding on to issues for a long period of time will not benefit your health, rather it will only cause more harm than good. It builds anger towards your spouse and is a higher level of keeping malice. ACTION PLAN: Let it go, give sympathy to your spouse and forgive the wrong doing, you will be unable to move on to achieve great things if you hold on to unforgiveness. People make mistakes. Many people have things that they may not be able to tolerate, or find irritating. This majorly deals with partner’s habit that you do not like, so instead of sweeping it under the rug, bring it up and iron it out. If not attended to, it will build up gradually into a big issue. Small things matter! ACTION PLAN:   People in relationships need to be open to each other. You need to explain those tiny things that may seem like nothing. If you can communicate effectively in love, you and partner will be happy at the end of the day. Discuss constructively, remember what we said earlier? RIGHT PLACE AND RIGHT TIME. Please don’t be selfish when trying to explain yourself. Reduce how many times you keep saying “me, me. me” it’s not only about you. Some couples exist only for drama; they create drama everywhere they go. When a partner whom you may have corrected in the past to always drop dirty clothes in the laundry basket, and for some reason they forget to do so continuously, don’t cause a scene, or count how many times in one week they keep repeating this habit. Couples rarely have the same character, while one person is calm, the other may be hot in character. Study your partner and know how to pass a message across without berating them or making a scene. ACTION PLAN: Take a few minutes after calming down to address the issue logically and calmly. Explain to your partner how you are displeased in clear and calm tones, without making a scene, preferably do this in private. No raised voices please.