Some residents of Ijegun, the scene of a pipeline explosion, where many died, have called for regular security patrol, establishment of a fire service station and the rebuilding of their canal. They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday that the government should also relocate a public school near the pipeline for the pupils sake. Former vice chairman of Landlords’ Association, Catholic Mission Street, Augustine Mbuba, said the residents had been living in fear of the unknown. “Our people cannot sleep anymore. Imagine that five days after the last explosion, some vandals shifted to another location to open up another pipeline that would have caused another explosion. “Thanks to a vigilance group and security agents who scared them away before they could complete their task of syphoning fuel with their gadgets,” he said. A retiree of the Nigerian National Shipping Line,  Roland Ejere, called for improved security in the community. He suggested that pipelines be buried deeper to make it difficult for vandals to access. “A solution is to bury these pipelines deeper,” Ejere told NAN during a condolence visit to the widow of a victim of the July 4 explosion, Mr. Nnabuife Emerokwem. A bookshop owner, Mrs. Victoria Osigwe, asked that the artisans around the pipeline should be moved to ply their trade elsewhere. A landlord, Okwudili Arachie, urged the government to work on the canal in the community where fuel flowed into during pipeline explosions. He said the government should channel the canal so that water or fuel from it would not get into houses. “The canal has been affected by erosion, which is why it has expanded too close to our houses, especially the houses of those who lost their lives during the last explosion. “The authorities should put the canal in shape and cover it so that any form of fuel flow will not get into people’s homes, but be controlled,” Arachie said. A businesswoman, Mrs. Agbo Joy, appealed for the relocation of the school near the pipeline saying: “The last disaster would have been worse if children were in school because the fire got to the walls of the school.” According to her, pupils lost their lives in the May 2008 pipeline explosion during a stampede. A teacher, Gerald Emejom, asked for the relocation of the gas and fuel stations near the pipelines. He lamented that many victims of pipeline explosions were not connected with vandalism. A Catholic cleric, Rev. Fr. Andrew Abhulime, called for more stringent punishment for the vandals to deter others. “The government should fight causes and not effects or symptoms. If there are no visible consequences for individuals who steal public heritages, then, these public evils and effects will always flourish,” he said.