Members of the #BringBackOurGirls movement have called on the federal government to confirm or deny the video by Boko Haram stating that Leah Sharibu and Alice Loksha have been killed. The group said it has read the statement put out by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, as the Government’s reaction from the presidency and are not satisfied. #BBOG, in a statement signed by Florence Ozor, Gapani Yanga and Nifemi Onifade, said it is the constitutional duty of the government to uphold the dignity of life of all Nigerians. They stated: “#BringBackOurGirls Call On The FG To Confirm Or Deny Claim Of The Death of Leah Sharibu and Alice Loksha With A ‘Proof Of Life’ Video. “The claim that Leah Sharibu, the sole remaining Dapchi schoolgirl of the 110 students abducted by Boko Haram on 19 February 2018, and Alice Loksha Ngaddah, an Aid Worker with UNICEF may be dead is extremely troubling. “Grace Taku, a recently abducted aid worker with Action Against Hunger, made this claim of Leah and Alice’s death in a ‘proof of life’ video released by the insurgents on Wednesday, July 24, 2019. She stated that Leah and Alice were killed by the insurgents because of Federal Government’s inability to do something. “We have read the statement put out by a Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, as the Government’s reaction from the presidency to this disconcerting news. We are, however, not satisfied, especially given that the statement is characterised by too many innuendos as well as lame assurances that are not backed up with any credible evidence. We, therefore, call on the President, Muhammadu Buhari, directly – as is usually done by leaders of other nations – to: “Provide an update to the people of Nigeria on the status of Leah Sharibu and Alice Loksha Ngaddah. Are they still alive? What is the Government under his leadership doing to secure their release from terrorist enclave that has lasted over 522 and 512 days respectively? Or has the President forgotten his numerous promises to bring them back? “Give belated justice of rescue to our 112 remaining Chibok girls who have been in captivity for 1,929 days and end the shame of his failure to keep promises made to ensure that all of them are rescued before December 31st 2015 – about four years ago. “We remain resolute and determined to never cease demanding action for our citizens. The constitutional duty to uphold the dignity of life of all Nigerians must be performed by the Federal Government and President Muhammadu Buhari. As a citizens movement committed to keeping government accountable, we are not for turning until Leah, Alice, Grace, her five unnamed colleagues, Chibok girls, and other abducted citizens are rescued.”