Some eminent citizens gathered yesterday to seek a solution to the rising tension in the land. It was at a two-day discussion, which
opened in Minna, the Niger State capital. The forum, organised by the Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution, was chaired by Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, who cautioned that disintegration would not solve Nigeria’s  problems. Gambari, a one-time External Affairs
minister, said the problems could only be resolved through dialogue. He said: “There can be no genuine military
solution to conflicts, except dialogue. We have to realise the vision of our
founding fathers, which is a prosperous and peaceful Nigeria.” Stating that team-building guarantees the
foundation for conflicts resolution, Prof Gambari said: “The forum should not
be a mere paper work but taking real action. A lot is expected from this forum.
We must not allow things to fall apart.” A communique is expected at the end of the
two-day forum taking place at the Abdulsalami Abubakar farm in Minna. Gen. Abdulsalami drew the attention of
governments at all levels to the need to take urgent actions in reducing the
growing tension in the land. The former Head of State warned that the
growing tension and resentment will get out of hand if no action is taken. He called for dialogue and peaceful
coexistence in addressing the prevailing insecurity. Gen. Abdulsalami said: “There is anger in
the land and the voices of reason are growing very rapidly. It is clear that
the situation requires that we all live up to the expectations of a nation that
puts so much value on elders and leaders. “We are all here as Nigerians who share
responsibility for the state of our nation. Therefore, if any forum can help in
the accurate identification of the problems and solutions for a united peaceful
Nigeria, let us be counted among such fora.” “This roundtable is the centre’s
contribution to the search for solutions to some of the problems we are
currently experiencing as a nation, particularly issues and matters around
co-existence and security. “Nigeria is going through a period of
trial amidst growing tension and resentment all over the country.” The former military leader said that the
situation in the country required leaders to live up to the people’s
expectations. He said that the outcome of the meeting
would be made available to the federal and state governments as well as other
institutions for consideration and action. Gen. Abdulsalami explained that the
roundtable was not a mini National Conference or a forum to review the
country’s constitution. Host Governor and Special Guest Abubakar
Bello said the challenges confronting the nation “are surmountable but require
sincerity of stakeholders”. Represented by the Secretary to the State
Government (SSG), Alhaji Ahmed Matane, the governor lauded the Institute for
initiating the roundtable. Dignitaries at the roundtable include:
Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers’ Council Chairman Alfred Diete Spiff; Emir of
Minna Umar Bahago; Emir of Kazaure Najib Adamu; Gen. Alani Akirinnade; Gen. IBM
Haruna; Prof. Bolaji Akinyemi; Prof Ango Abdullahi; Prof Kingsley Moghalu; Mrs.
Josephine Anenih and a ministerial nominee, Ambassador Zubairu Dada. Expected at the forum were representatives
of Afenifere, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), Middle Belt Forum (MBF), Northern
Eleders’ Forum (NEF); Ohanaeze, Arewa Consultative Forum and Miyetti-Allah
Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN). But the groups, excluding MACBAN,
boycotted the conference. They hinged their decision to opt out at
the talks on what it called reservations about the inclusion of the Miyetti
Allah. The groups announced their withdrawal in a
joint statement issued under the name of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders
Forum (SMBLF). Members of the
Forum declared that they cannot sit to discuss security issues with MACBAN.