Residents of Federal Housing Estate, ‘33’, Onitsha suburb, Anambra State, have lamented lack of primary and secondary schools in the area. They said their children trekked far distances to access schools, wondering why an estate of such a magnitude could exist for years without educational facilities. They called on government to come to their rescue by siting primary and secondary schools in the area to reduce the risks the children were exposed to. One of the residents who simply identified herself as Mrs Okereke, told The Nation that the absence of schools in the area have compelled some parents to relocate to areas their wards would easily have access to schools. Okekere, a mother of three, said her children risked their lives on daily basis to access schools outside the estate. She said, “It sounds strange that a federal government project of this magnitude as Federal Government Housing estate has no primary and secondary schools. “Every morning, my three kids trek to schools outside the estate at their own risk because government at the state and federal levels cannot provide schools for children of the area. “Some trek to Oyolu primary school and Nkwelle-Ezunaka High school that are outside this our domain risking their lives on daily basis. “I appeal to Governor Willie Obiano and Commissioner for Education to do something about it urgently because it is our children, not federal government children that suffer it.” A teacher, who preferred anonymity, lamented the untold hardship they were subjected to as a result of absence of primary and secondary schools in the area. She said, “As a teacher, I know what it takes me to go out of this place to another school to teach because there is no primary school here, not to talk of a secondary school. “Some parents have even parked out of the estate to areas where their kids will have easy access to schools so they will not be in trauma whenever their kids go to school.” Also speaking, the state chairman of Civil Liberties OrganiSation (CLO), Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme, said many children had been victims of various accidents because of the long commute. “The problem of lack of primary and post primary schools in the area has resulted in school children falling victims of ghastly auto accidents, molestation and kidnapping as they trek far distance to schools. “I advise the Governor and Education commissioner to visit the area and see things for themselves. “They will discover that for years now the residents have been without schools and they need not to be told the hazards of trekking outside one’s domain to acquire educational knowledge,” he said. Ezekwueme also called for the establishment of blind and talented schools for both indigent, physically challenged but brilliant students in the area.