NOLLYWOOD celebrities have come out to speak against the on-going case of a senator who was caught in a video footage assaulting a shop attendant in Abuja. With the incident still under probe, the celebrities have already set up a post with the hashtag #ArrestSenatorElishaAbbo. “Abeg ooooo, What Manner Of Indiscipline Is this? This is what we See In this Country that has Failed Women Generally ! A country that Places women Far bellow Animals . A Country that Can not Protect Their Multiplication Machine! Yes! That is What we are, Your Multiplication Machine! Since you treat Us like Animals, Beat Us, Rape Us, Assault Us and nothing will Happen . Without US this Country will be Dead and Gone! Without US the Women there will be no Nigeria  !, said Uche Ogbodo. “I feel So Bad Right now!. What Manner Of Animal is this man pls?. I’ve been saying that we need to pay attention to who we let into our National Assembly. Now we have CCTV footage of a SITTING SENATOR physically assaulting a woman in an adult toy store in Abuja, IN THE PRESENCE OF A POLICE OFFICER.” “Her only “crime” was saying “Oga take it easy” when he got aggressive with her female store owner friend. For that, he slapped her multiple times, and then made his policemen arrest her. This is an absolute disgrace. Pls repost and share until our Police force agree to #ArrestSenatorElishaAbbo – he must face the full wrath of the law. “This is what happens when we don’t pay attention to the people we let into our leadership roles. This is what happens when we have a culture that subconsciously treats our women as second class citizens. We have a lot to unlearn as a country.. about how we select/allow leaders AND about the way we treat our women. We must do better. We must be better.” Faithia Williams also added her voice saying, “Men who beat women are coward. #senatoraddo deserves nothing less than being prosecuted. The way I am looking at him now, if I were the judge he is a goner! Political aspirant Banky W, was not left out in the movement. “I’ve been saying that we need to pay attention to who we let into our National Assembly. Now we have CCTV footage of a SITTING SENATOR physically assaulting a woman in an adult toy store in Abuja, IN THE PRESENCE OF A POLICE OFFICER. Her only “crime” was saying “Oga take it easy” when he got aggressive with her female store owner friend. For that, he slapped her multiple times, and then made his policemen arrest her. This is an absolute disgrace. Pls repost and share until our Police force agree to #ArrestSenatorElishaAbbo – he must face the full wrath of the law.” “This is what happens when we don’t pay attention to the people we let into our leadership roles. This is what happens when we have a culture that subconsciously treats our women as second class citizens. We have a lot to unlearn as a country.. about how we select/allow leaders AND about the way we treat our women. We must do better. We must be better.” With the latest on the case that the IG has ordered arrest of Senator Elsha Abbo for assaulting the sales girl, the singer stated. “Fantastic news. We used the power of social media to point out a grave injustice, we must also use it acknowledge when those in authority give an appropriate response. We must follow up on these cases.” “When we don’t take steps to hold men in Power accountable, we lay down the red carpet for them to abuse it. We must do better. We must be better.”