Access Bank has emerged winner of the Karlsruhe Sustainable Finance Awards for “Outstanding Business Sustainability Achievement”. It received the award at a ceremony held at the City Hall, Karlsruhe, Germany. This is the fourth time the bank would win the award. The award was presented to the Bank’s Group Managing Director/CEO, Herbert Wigwe, with top brand managers, executives, chief executive officers (CEOs) of leading global financial institutions, top German government officials, policy makers, regulators and key sustainability stakeholders in attendance at aan event in. The award is in recognition of the bank’s  commitment to embedding social, environmental and economic sustainability into its core business strategy that helps address issues across its business operations and value chain. The Global Sustainable Finance Awards celebrate financial institutions, related organisations and top executives making significant contributions to the field of sustainable banking and finance, while also aiming to promote the growth of sustainable financial instruments and markets globally, particularly with a focus on green finance and investments; financial inclusion and social finance; green equity and venture capital, including the holistic integration of sustainability among financial institutions. Wigwe explained: “The global finance sector plays a major role in the economy, as they provide huge amounts of capital and have the ability to influence other companies and customers across sectors through their products and services. Many banks are  placing a great deal of emphasis on driving sustainability as well as digitising core business processes and reassessing organisational structures to be better prepared for the future of banking. This transformation illustrates the increasing desire to become a sustainable and digital bank. “Access Bank has a corporate strategy and philosophy which places sustainability at its core. Together with our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Access Bank recently launched a five-year tenured, fixed rate green bond worth N15 billion, which is the first Climate Bonds Initiative Certified corporate green bond in Africa.” Access Bank, as it becomes the world’s most respected African bank, remains committed to setting standards for sustainable business practices by adopting innovative solutions to build a desirable future. The bank continues to make positive contributions to people and the planet, paving the way for its own longevity and continued profitability, while also making the case for sustainability to businesses worldwide.