LEADING Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), Tecno, has said research and development (R&D) remained the cornerstone of its products, assuring that it will remain so as to retain its leadership position in the smartphone market in the country. The Vice President, Transsion Holdings and Managing Director of Tecno, Stephen HA , who spoke during the unveiling of Phantom 9 at Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, said the release of the product was delayed a little because of the many innovations that came with it. He said the device, which was late in coming, was built with Artificial Intelligence (AI) with triple camera. “This new device has been in the pipeline for a while. With the amazing AI Triple Camera plus other wonderful features, we are proud to say it was worth the wait.        Photography enthusiasts and business professionals will find that is a great addition to their work and entertainment toolbox,” he said. He added that  one of its exciting new features include an AI Triple Camera which enables users to take immersive wide-angle photographs of landscapes, cityscapes and indoor architecture, without breaking a sweat. Besides sporting an amazing camera, the new Tecno Phantom 9 draws on beauty from the skies above – the colourful aurora; the impressive aurora, visible in both the Northern and Southern hemispheres, inspired the design of this new device. Encased in swirls of red, black and blue of various shades, the device is a stunning masterpiece. Seasoned design engineers from Paris, France worked with the Tecno team to create the look and feel of the new device, it is no wonder that its beauty is unlike any other, he added. “The AI Triple rear Camera on the Phantom 9 is a 16MP+2MP+8MP, 120-degree main camera that makes wide angle photography possible. equipped with Google Lens, so the device can do smart identification of objects as soon they come into the view of the camera.  The device does this by automatically showing all the relevant information on the object. This brings a whole new dimension to smartphone photography. There are also other features that make the device stand out such an Octa-core 2.35GHz MT6765 Processor with 6GB RAM + 128GB memory space. That means plenty of memory space for storing lots of files and no freezing even while running three or more apps simultaneously! All of this is powered by the 9.0 Android Pie and is showcased in a 6.4-inch Full HD AMOLED display. It also has 2 Nano SIM slots. There is also a Drop Screen Dual Front Flashlight on the new smartphone and Tecno Phantom 9 is the first to feature this. This will greatly help users who take shots at night or in low light conditions. They can now do this with no worries about dark pictures. Other features include Bluetooth 5.0 which makes connecting one device to another easier and transferring files faster; 4G LTE capacity for smooth high-speed browsing; and a sizeable 3,500mAh Battery. Last but not the least, the device features curved edges which make for an easy firm grip and spares you the heartache of having your phone fall out of your hands. All these and more are reasons to get the Tecno Phantom 9. Tecno Phantom 9 is a great addition to the PHANTOM series and is an improvement on the older Phantom 8.The new device, TECNO Phantom 9, price data little over N77,000  proves that Tecno is for Nigerians. 