A TOTAL of 160,000 pupils from public and private primary schools across Lagos State yesterday wrote the Lagos State Placement Test for admission into JSS 1 classes of public junior secondary schools run by the state. The examination, which was conducted by the Lagos State Examinations Board in conjunction with the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board ( SUBEB), held in 386 centres across the state. Of the number, Director, Lagos State Examinations Board, Dr Olufemi Hassan, said 40,000 were from private schools. While monitoring the examination in Agege and Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Education Authorities, he said the examination went smoothly in the 10 centres he visited.  He said the number of candidates had increased yearly – with 150,000 taking the test in 2018, and 140,000 in 2017. Board Secretary, Lagos SUBEB, Mrs. Kehinde Ajimoti, said the increment in the number of candidates from private schools showed parents were again confident in public schools. My observation is that, a lot of private “school pupils sat for the test, which means that parents are beginning to realise that government schools are becoming better. “”With the number of private school pupils here today, we can say that our standard has improved than what it used to be in the past and we will not relent in our effort to ensure quality and quantitative education for all,” said Mrs. Ajimoti, who monitored the examination in Mainland, Somolu and Kosofe Local Government Areas. The Board Secretary added that adequate provision was made for children living with disabilities in some of the centres. Unlike in the past that candidates did re-sits if results were not up to par, Hassan said pupils that fail would not be accepted by public schools but could get into the technical and vocational schools. “There is no provision for pupils to have a re-sit after this test. The test is a straight jacketed examination, no plan for re-sit. “There are facilities for pupils who fail in the technical colleges, vocational centres across the state. “”It is not all the pupils here today that will pass the examination, but for those who will not make, government has already made provision for them to learn a vocation and be self-reliant,” he said. However, for all who pass, Mrs. Ajimoti said they would be admitted. “We have space to accommodate all successful candidates as the new governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has directed that all our schools should be renovated ahead resumption in September. “We will continue to expand and improve on all existing facilities,” she said. Some of the schools visited include Vetland Senior Grammar School, Agege, State Junior High School, Oyewole, Agege, Station Junior Grammar School, Iju. Others were: Aje Comprehensive High School, Yaba, Birel Girls High School, Yaba, Jibowu Junior High School, Yaba, Baptist Junior and Senior Secondary School, Somolu, Immaculate Heart Junior Comprehensive, Maryland and Mende Junior Secondary School, Mende, Maryland.