Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday said he will re-launch ‘One House, One Tree’ campaign across the state. The move, he said, would ensure every house in the state plants one tree to intensify the green project. Sanwo-Olu spoke at the flag off of a Green Campaign to plant 350,000 trees across the state in response to changing ecosystem and climate conditions. The campaign with the theme: “Clean and Green is our Perfect Dream”, kicked off in Lekki Phase 1 to commemorate the state’s Tree Planting Day – an annual programme initiated 10 years ago by the administration of Babatunde Raji Fashola, with the objectives to galvanise policies and actions towards mitigating the effects of climate change. The commemorative tree planting activity was held simultaneously across the state, including Costain area of Ebute Metta where the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, anchored the exercise. The Governor, represented by his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, said maintaining green environment was a cardinal agenda of his administration, reiterating his commitment to achieve cleaner and greener ecosystem. He said tree planting remained an effective strategy to combat the effect of climate change and global warming, stressing that the sustenance of the initiative was a testimony to the foresight of the previous administrations to ensure Lagosians live in a healthy environment. He said: “We cannot keep on ignoring the effects of climate change, which is the most significant material risk to our future; it is also the world’s most devastating threat to human survival. As we increase effort to rid the state of waste, all hands must be on deck to also improve the aesthetics of the environment by adorning it with ornaments, plants, beautiful flowers, shrubs and trees.” The governor praised the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) for the mileage it had achieved in helping the government to realise the green objectives, noting that seven million trees had been planted out of the 10 million targets by 2020. He observed that achieving a green credential would help the government to improve healthcare and sustain the environment. Chairman of Iru/Victoria Island Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Princess Rasheedat Adu, said tree planting had become a ritual in her local council. She said: “We are passionate about keeping the environment in its natural form. We believe that whatever we take away from the environment should be returned to keep it natural. Victoria Island is below the sea level and because of this, all hands are always on deck to ensure that we clear our drainages and keep the environment safe. We regularly roll out programmes that sensitise residents on how properly to dispose of refuse and maintain a healthy environment.” Adu’s Ojokoro LCDA counterpart Hammed Tijani described tree planting as the most reliable and cheapest means of combating the effect of global warming and climate change. Other importance of tree planting, Tijani said, include providing oxygen, control erosions and provide shades and foods, amongst others. He advised residents of Ojokoro to plant a tree when marking memorable occasions such as child dedication, birthday, graduation and many more.