Heritage Bank Plc, African Export Import Bank and Zamfara State government  have signed $1billion Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in the areas of mining, agriculture, water resources and others. Heritage
Bank is the banker to the project. Another
financial handler involved in the  the
MoU is PAC Capital Limited, which  is the
investment banking arm of Pan African Capital Holdings, committed to
facilitating investment activities and enabling growth across the continent. Speaking
with reporters at the signing of the MoU in Abuja, the MD/CEO of Heritage Bank,
Ifie Sekibo, said the win-win collaboration amongst the institutions would
promote and fast track support to Zamfara to enable it explore its unharnessed
resources for the benefit of its people and the nation’s economy. According
to him, the bold intiative would help unlock massive opportunities inherent in
solid minerals and support efforts on local content ptomotion, facilitate
industrial development and export development. Sekibo
said: “It is a game changer that will drive formidable economic growth for
the state government, serve as backbone to the economy through job creation, as
well a way of cushioning the present economic situation.” Also
speaking, the President/Chairman, Board of Director, Afreximbank, Prof.
Benedict Oramah, said the bank was delighted to be part of the partnership
towards unlocking the abundant opportunities in the state. He
said: “We had a very fruitful meeting with the delegation from Zamfara
State led by the governor. “In
AfreximBank, we are pleased that the leadership of the state has a clear
vision. They have identified clearly the strengths of their state, the
opportunities and what they need to unlock these opportunities. “They
have decided to take their own destiny in their hands, which is actually the
foundation of the federal structure that we operate in Nigeria–that states
should do all they can to maximise the use of the resources they have for the
benefit of their people, so that collectively, we can grow the economy of Nigeria
to become more that it is today. “We
also discussed resources partnership in the areas of agriculture and water to
take advantage of the tremendous opportunities presented by the system in
Zamfara State, not only to generate electricity but also for agriculture,
including other core production for export and consumption locally. “We
also discussed partnership to revive the cotton industry in Zamfara State.
There is no reason why the state cannot produce cotton as Republic of Benin
which is now the largest producer of cotton in Africa. “We
also discussed how to support the state with regard to animal husbandry and
production of beef using modern facilities. “So,
altogether, the investments we have discussed which we prioritise based on the
speed of having to get them done amounts to about $1billion.” The
state governor, Bello Matawalle, who commended Heritage Bank for facilitating
the funds, said the discussion commenced barely two weeks ago in Dubai. “We
started this discussion just about two weeks ago when we met with some
Afreximbank people in Dubai with the Managing Director of Heritage Bank for
which he promised to deliver our message to the bank. “Zamfara
State, as you are all aware, had so many issues before my emergence as the
governor, for which reason and to limited time, just a month, God helped us to
tackle some of these issues. He said his administration is committed to making
the state a full secured state. “We
have started that by engaging the bandits in peace, which they have accepted to
lay down their arms. As at today, Mr. President, we have secured the release of
over 300 people that are under captivity. The securing of the release of these
people was done without any commitment; no single kobo or ransom was paid to
the bandits. “So
we assure you that Zamfara State is safe for investors, they can come to the
state. They can come to the state and the government is committed to making
sure that everything is out in place to guarantee their security. “We
thank you for the investment of about $1 billion which can cover manufacturing,
power, infrastructure, mining and Agriculture. We assure you that we have all
the potentials to utilise the said funds in order to move Zamfara State
forward.” he said.