HAVE you been to Love’s molehill? Making a mountain out of Love’s molehill reminds you of the idiom that refers to making too much of a minor issue. It could also refer to exaggerating the importance of something. So in relationships, you discover that a number of people fall apart because of things that they should have overlooked, things that should have been inconsequential to love matter. Instead of showering the one they claim to love with affection, what we do is to look out for their mistakes, what they left undone as well as what we think they are likely to do. Unfortunately, that is why we always run into problems. Instead of holding on to the power of positive thinking, Love’s molehill is usually clustered and cluttered with negatives. The molehill, interestingly, is a conial mound of loose soil raised by small burrowing mammals, including moles. The love animal thinks like these burrowing mammals, we keep on unearthing things that break the heart. You keep on fishing in troubled emotional waters and result is the heartbreaks we have these days. It’s actually a long, tiring journey and you need perseverance to survive the odds. You also need a trusty road map and guidebook to benefit from the experience of those who have been through the bumpy road, climbing emotional hills with stress, getting lost in valley of lust while a few make it to the mountaintop. Solomon is looking for a babe, someone he can be happy with 24/7. Happily he tells his friends the type of gal he is looking for and they laughed at him. Dreamer? “You are just too ambitious, you need to look around and if you find someone who fits into your target. If the babe meets up at least 50 or 60 per cent, then you are okay. But if you insist on having all the details a 100 per cent then it may just be a wild goose chase.” A gap tooth and every smiling chic. This can really be a great source of inspiration in any relationship. A frowning babe is not a great companion. She’s going to drag you to the bottomless pit and make the whole idea very uninteresting. A bad bargain anyday. What is he going to do with a babe whose eyeballs are flat? “No way. It’s more exciting when you are in a relationship with someone that excites you. The eyeball is the first contact; you must be able to connect positively at this point. If the one you want to spend the rest of your life with possessed eyeballs that are not attractive, then it’s not likely to work.” That is not all. This dude also wants his babe to be intelligent or close to a genius at work. Insatiable? Not really. A guy with class should go after what his heart’s desires. His dream is unique, not for ordinary souls. This dream gal must be a pot pourri of some sort. An angel in the midst of other angels, something worth having forever. A diamond must be forever. Well, we can’t really blame him. So, are we saying that it may not be possible to have just one babe with all these assets? No, we just can’t make that lazy assumption. Let him try, try and try again. He may just be lucky to find this missing rib somewhere and somehow. Like a molehill, Love can be very difficult to define. Most times, you may just have to make something out of nothing. You need to make the best of whatever situation you find yourself and make things work, if you can. Things are different from what we used to have in the past, obviously signs of the love times. Two young lovebirds decided to go in search of a good Love nest. Somewhere, they can live happily thereafter. Of course, they were not sure where true Love was, they went to a love doctor for diagnosis. The doctor did the necessary tests to be sure that they were compatible. Once there was a confirmation that they both had enough of cupid’s arrows in their veins to take them through this strenuous Love journey, it was time to be practical. Here he took them though a shimmering path that got higher and deeper with every step. It was fun and the two lovebirds laughed, sang, danced and shed tears of joy. The sun was shining brilliantly and fragrant wildflowers were blossoming abundantly all around them as the skipped merrily around the path of Love. Just when you thought they had found Love, the unexpected happened; the euphoria was interrupted by a voice from the past. “Susan how can you do this to me? How can you bite the Love fingers that fed you? Why did you break a loving heart?” Yes, that was the voice of an old flame. It was a sad voice and it was also warning the new Romeo. The message here was that he had been a victim and the new guy was going to fall prey soon. Our queen is a fair weather lover, the type who shows affection only when there are goodies in the emotional bag; once the bag becomes deflated then she is going to take to her heels. Utopia? Well, you would find out as you sink deeper and deeper into this Love quagmire.