The forthcoming ‘Abuja Investment Expo’ will provide affordable housing to the low and middle income earners in Nigeria, the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) has said. ACCI’s Vice President, Commerce, Dr Johnson Anene, made this known in Abuja at a news conference on the expo scheduled for Abuja from July 30 to August 1. ACCI is organising the expo in partnership with Shelter Aid Organisation, a Non-Governmental Organisation, in the sector. The expo is expected to feature investment summit, exhibition of housing and housing programmes, mining products, made in Nigeria products, building financing technologies, land matters, mortgages and investment opportunities. Anene said ACCI decided to use the platform to involve housing estate developers to enhance home ownership in view of the huge housing deficit in the country. He listed the developers to include the Real Estate Development Association of Nigeria (REDAN), Brains and Hammers, Urban Shelter, Wiser Estate and other reputable private developers. “We want to use the platform to promote affordable housing by bringing the estate developers who have been tested to offer houses to off takers at cheaper rates. “There are houses that are completed, but people are not occupying them so we want to use this forum to facilitate their occupation. “The low income earners cannot afford these houses because of high prices. A lot of the housing developers will be auctioning houses with different packages and discount of 50 per cent. “We are introducing “Rent to Own” scheme whereby one will pay rent and liquidate the purchase price of the house,” he said. Anene said ACCI would equally use the expo to boost local production of building materials to deliver affordable housing at lower costs. He said the Chamber was in partnership with Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and Manufacturers Association of Nigeria. He said the ACCI was also partnering the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) and Nigeria Building and Research Institute (NIBRI) to actualise its plans at the expo. He said the chamber would introduce training of artisans in the informal sector in ACCI Business Entrepreneurship Skills and Technology Centre with a view to preparing them for lucrative employment. “The expo will feature business networking with both local and foreign chamber members and participants to boost businesses and investment. ACCI Director-General, Mrs. Tonia Shoyele, also said the real estate sector had been moribund with a lot of housing deficit which needed intervention. She urged the government to look into the sector and tackle the lingering problems.