Albesta Academy, Eleko, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos has won the 2019 Tolaram Science Challenge for the fourth time in a row. The Tolaram Science Challenge is a science-based competition among schools in the Ibeju-Lekki axis of Lagos, organised by the Tolaram Group, a conglomerate in Nigeria, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme aimed at promoting science education among pupils. Albesta Academy defeated Community Senior High School, Lekki, in a keenly contested grand finale, which was sponsored by two Tolaram firms, Lagos Free Trade Zone Company (LFTZC) and the Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited (LPLEL) – with product support from other companies in the group, including Dufil Prima Foods Limited (Indomie Noodles), TG Arla (Dano Milk) and Kellogg Tolaram (Coco Pops). Fourteen secondary schools (10 public and four private) participated in the competition from group stages to the grand finale. Eight pupils representing each school were drilled in five subjects – Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics and General Knowledge. The public schools were: Senior Grammar School, Magbon Alade; Community Senior Secondary School, Debojo; Community Senior High School, Magbon-Segun; Community Senior High School, Idata/Ilagbo; Community Senior High School, Akodo; Community Senior High School, Orimedu; Community Senior High School, Ise; Community Senior High School, Lekki; Community Senior High School, Iwerekun; Ibeju Senior High School, Ibeju- Lekki.  The private schools were: Albesta Academy, Eleko; Jona Josh College, Orofun/Akodo; JOAK Private School, Magbon Alade; and LACAPERIA Academy, Obadore. Apart from the yearly tradition of scholarship support to the best pupils from each school, the overall winners for this fourth edition received cash prizes, trophies and customised tablets.  All participants received other prizes, including science textbooks. Speaking at the opening, the Programme Officer, Ishk Tolaram Foundation, Mrs Laura Ede, praised the pupils’ keen interest in expanding their learning experience through the initiative, urging them to continue to work hard in the pursuits of their dreams. “As educators, we know the importance of this competition in capturing students’ curiosity at an early age. This will encourage students not just to think critically and reflectively, but have the power to change the world through their problem solving skills,” she said. Delivering his goodwill message during the grand finale, Chairman of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, (LPLEL), Mr. Biodun Dabiri, represented by Mrs. Adesuwa Ladoja of (LPLEL) said education was the most potent weapon to drive change in the world hence, the reason the company is supporting the laudable initiative. On his part, LFTZC  Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Ashish Khemka noted that the competition was a worthy initiative that would nurture the pupils as future scientists and engineers. “We are really glad to support this initiative. It is a competition, we believe will help change not only the fortunes of the pupils and the community but the world at large,” he said. Speaking after receiving the trophy, Albesta Academy Head of the Science Department, Mr Owuye Aduragbemi