Former Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, on Thursday advised Nigerians to talk less and work more, saying a better and prosperous country cannot come into existence by talking, but by dint of hard work. Fashola lamented that people dwell so much on talking about “what is not happening” in the country  instead of giving prominence to what is being done, stressing that “we can’t talk our away out of our problem but can only work our way out it.” The former Governor Lagos state made this known while inaugurating Gasco Marine’s N2.2bn Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Plant (mother station) at Onijaganjagan, Abeokuta, Ogun state. The immediate past Power minister said the gas project has helped the Federal Government to protect the environment for next generation by reducing gas flaring, addresses global and local concern about employment and also attests to the ease of doing business in Nigeria. He urged other Nigerians to emulate the indigenous investors in Gasco Marine and invest in the gas subsector to drive cleaner air and environment, generate employment and reduce gas flaring. “While some people are busy talking some people are actually working to change things for the better. That is what this plant is all about. Young people are still actively planning and getting things done. This group has done something great, putting the gas into more productive use. “We can talk about climate change and how we need to convert bad fuel, coal; diesel into cleaner but it won’t go away by just talking. This group has done something about that again by making sure there is cleaner fuel, there is cleaner source of fuel to use. “We talk about lack of money to do business, a group of people have said no, we can access pension fund to do infrastructure, this project has delivered that again so when we talk about ease of doing business everybody has a role to play. We can’t talk this into existence; you have to work it into existence.” The Managing Director of Gasco Marine, Bukola Badejo – Okusanya, said the company is into processing, storage and distribution of gas to help address the power problems in the country. Badejo – Okusanya added that Gasco Marine, an indigenous firm, provides cheaper, cleaner and affordable gas to Nigerians.  