Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education Oto/Ijanikin has planted trees on its premises to mark the yearly Tree Planting Day. Its Provost, Dr Omolola Aina Ladele,  praised the Lagos State government which launched the initiative about 12 years ago, and backed same with commitment by ensuring annual compliance across board.  And with about a year and half left as target year, Ladele is optimistic that over 10 million trees projected by the government at inception would have been planted. Appreciating efforts of tertiary education institutions (TEI) in the state in embracing the initiative over the years, Ladele said AOCOED will rather complement the United Nations green campaign. She also urged individuals, government and corporate bodies to domesticate the tree-planting culture. “The college has started with an effort to power its street light by solar energy. This is designed to reduce its carbon footprint and integrate sound environmental practices within the college. We also believe that there should be direct, personal action on the part of students and workers to control greenhouse gas emission, not only on campus but also at home,” said Ladele who also stood in for Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. She continued: “Also as staff in the college, we could personalise tree-planting culture. As a worker, you could plant a tree to mark your promotion, birthday and other major events. You will have a cause to smile anytime you sight the tree. At the level of the college, tree planting could be included in the programme of some of its landmark events such as convocation, and conferences. Such trees could be tagged to indicate the events for which they were planted. By this, tree planting will cease to be only a yearly affair. It will also help maximise the potential benefits of tree planting such as providing beautiful shades under which we can enjoy cool breeze after a day’s work and enhancing the beauty of our campuses.” Similarly, representative of the Ministry of Environment Mr Idowu Sunday, said the theme of this year’s event: Clean and green is our perfect dream, is ideal in view of government’s desire of transforming Lagos State to a ‘cleaner, healthier, greener and an environmentally-sustainable entity. “It is important to note that no matter our economic status, we can still be a part of Lagos State development agenda by simple act of planting tree and nurturing it to survival,” said Idowu Sunday, an assistant director, Lagos State Parks and Gardens (LASPAK). “I urge all Lagosians to be alive to their responsibilities on this nagging issue of sanitation and greening. When we make it clean, let us also make it green; and when we make it green, we have made it safer and healthier for the generality of our people. This is our perfect dream for a prosperous Lagos,” Sunday concluded.