Nigeria’s annual imports of milk and other products is currently estimated at US $ 1.3 Billion, the federal government has declared. Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Dr. Mohammed Umar, stated this in Abuja during the kick-off of a two- day 4th Global Dairy Congress Africa with the theme “Accelerating Investment and Cooperation of Dairy in Africa.” Mohammed, who was represented by Director, Department of Animal Husbandry Services, Mr. Bright Wategire, said the congress is an opportunity for the government and stakeholders to interact and explore business opportunities, discuss critical issues targeted at resolving the multi-faced problems bedeviling dairy sector and also improve on it for the progress of agricultural sector. He added that challenges facing Nigeria dairy sector borders mostly on infrastructure development, processing, dairy husbandry, quantity control, product development and industry. Mohammed further disclosed that Nigeria cattle contribute a conservation estimate of 50,000 liters of milk daily in supply and consumption which is less than 20% of local potential. Nigeria’s milk production, according to him, accounts for only 13% of West Africa production and 0.01% of global dairy output. He further stated the nation’s daily requirement is largely met by 60 percent imports and 40 percent local production. He urged all stakeholders to uplift Nigeria dairy sector in order to fight against malnutrition and achieve zero hunger in Nigeria. The Permanent Secretary said that Nigeria is in the process of evolving a national dairy policy that will articulate a clear road map for our developmental aspirations and strategies involving broad spectrum stakeholders and multinationals in order to improve our dairy sector. Vice President of Arla Global Dairy Products Mr. Steen Hadsbjerg said Nigeria must achieve the United Nation global nutrition target of zero hunger and malnutrition by 2030, all stakeholders in Africa must currently come up with sustainable development plan.