The Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) Moddibbo Kawu was re-arraigned with three others on Monday before a Federal High Court in over alleged fraud in the handling of N2.5 billion part of seed grant for Digital Switch-Over (DSO) project of the Federal Government. Modibo was re-arraigned with Pinnacle Communications Limited, its Chairman Lucky Omoluwa and the firm’s Chief Operating Officer, Dipo Onifade on Monday on an amended charge filed by the prosecution. When an amended charge was read to the defendants on Monday, they pleaded not guilty. They were earlier arraigned on May 3, 2019 on a 12-count charge filed by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) to which they equally pleaded not guilty. After their re-arraignment, Justice Folasade Giwa-Ogunbanjo allowed them to continue to enjoy the bail earlier granted them. They were each granted bail at N100 million and two sureties at their first arraignment. Justice Giwa-Ogunbanjo noted that the prosecution was yet to file a report of its verification of the information supplied by the sureties presented by the defendants in respect of the earlier bail granted them. The judge noted even though the prosecution was, on May 5, this year, ordered to file the report within five days, it failed to comply with the directive. She consequently halted proceedings and insisted that the prosecution comply with the order made by the court before further proceedings could be conducted in the case. The judge stood down the case and insisted that the prosecution, represented by Henry Emore and E. Shogunle, must comply with the court’s order. When proceedings resumed some hours later, Emore said the motion, reporting verification of the bail conditions has been deposited in the court’s registry. Upon going through a copy of the motion, the judge drew the attention of the lead defence lawyer, Alex Izinyon (SAN) toparagraphs 3d and 3e, where the prosecution raised issues about addresses of the sureties. Izinyon said the issues raised in both paragraphs had been addressed in a subsequent motion filed by the defence. Justice Giwa Ogunbanjo subsequently adjourned till Thursday for the hearing of a motion by the defence, challenging the additional proof of evidence filed by the prosecution, where it indicated its plan to call additional two witnesses.