The story of the N200m worth of hospital equipment rotting away at the Edo State-owned General hospital, Otuo, Owan East Local Government Area owing to the failure of the state government to make it functional is akin to the story of Nero who fiddled while Rome burnt. Today, both the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki, and his immediate predecessor, the current chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress  (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, are more focused on their current supremacy battle over the leadership of the Edo State House of Assembly to notice that the people of Otuo community are resorting to traditional healers for medical treatment. The traditional ruler of the community, Julius Ojeabuo, has been lamenting the fate of his subjects who, instead of using the state-owned and well-equipped hospital, have been going to traditional healers and self-medicating as a last resort. Even though the hospital which had been abandoned for a long time but rebuilt by former Governor Oshiomhole, not much was done to make the facility functional as the requisite equipment were lacking. The present governor has reportedly been making promises without fulfillment as regards the hospital. Pally Iraise, the immediate past Deputy Chief  Whip of the Senate  who represented Owan Federal Constituency from 2012 to 2019, like the traditional ruler, has been lamenting the abandonment of the hospital even after he lobbied and got about N200m worth of equipment for the facility, including uninterrupted power through solar energy. We are curious over the negligence of successive governments in Edo State on this hospital. Edo State and by wider implication the nation cannot achieve greatness without a healthy workforce. To subject the people of the community and beyond to patronising herbalists, quacks and religious houses in desperate search for health services while a well-equipped hospital lies fallow is one of the big riddles of governance in Nigeria. Yet, the Otuo story is not an isolated one. Many facilities in the country are equally rotting away as governments at state and federal levels fail to maximise their use, thereby turning them to white elephant projects. We consider as very puerile the lack of adequate workforce given for the non-functionality of the hospital in a country that virtually supplies the West and the Americas some of the best workforce in the medical profession.  Both the immediate past health minister, Professor ????? Adewole, and former labour and productivity minister, Dr. Chris Ngige, had at different fora boasted about the high number of medical professionals who they both encouraged to travel out with their expertise because the country allegedly has too many of them. The fact that many tax payers’ funded facilities are not put to optimal use around the country says a lot about the readiness of those expected to work for the people in a democracy where the people are supposed to be the focal point of governments. There are two sectors that any responsible government anywhere in the world takes seriously – health and education. We are seriously worried that these two very vital sectors are not given the requisite attention by both the federal and state governments in Nigeria. The fact that many Nigerians die of even minor ailments that can be treated promptly where the needed facilities are available and functional should worry those in positions to take the necessary actions. Patronising what they feel are the alternatives to modern hospitals should worry the Edo State government. The huge amount invested in the hospital must be put to maximum use as that would have a multiplier effect of saving lives, providing jobs and reinforcing the value of democracy in the minds of the people. In a country without adequate statistics, we can only imagine how many of the citizens of Otuo community would have died of negligence or the effects of patronising herbalists or relying on religious houses for miracles. The case of this community is seemingly in the limelight probably due to the concerns shown by the traditional ruler and the senator representing the senatorial zone. It only remains to be imagined what goes on in other communities across the country that do not have access to the media or have their representatives raise a voice of concern. We implore Governor  Obaseki to re-channel his energy to real governance that puts the people’s health first and put the very costly hospital equipment to productive use. A healthy state is a wealthy state. 