History was made on Tuesday in Lagos when a Brick -Layer assistant ( Cement mixer), Mujahid Shuiabu was handed over a key to a brand new saloon car he won at Dangote ” Bag of Goodies” promo. Before now consumers of the cement had won several prices including cars in Osun and Edo states.Group Executive Director of Dangote Cement lndustries, Halima Dangote said it’s their idea of giving value and quality to their customers who have been steadfast with them. According to her their customers are part of the values and excellence they strive to maintain. She encouraged the ordinary people who make use of cement to insist on the Brand. She added that the promo is none discriminatory as, Shuiabu, a cement mixer at a construction site who had nothing to his name except diligence in his choice of work became the first Car winner in Lagos.
Former Lagos State Commissioner for Water Front, Prince Adesegun Oniru who was the Special Guest commended the company for being people oriented. He hailed the promo which main objective is to give back to the society in addition to the inroad of the organisation in the oil and gas sector. He maintained that in no distant time the company will be positioned to service the Petro-chemical sector of the economy including fertilizer manufacturing which will enhance the nation’s quest for food security.
The Chief Operating Officer of Dangote Cement lndustries, Arvind Pathak said the promo is their own idea of appreciating their customers. He said though they produce a product that is arguably a global best as he has worked in different cement plants across the globe they can’t neglect them as they are the reason why they are still in existence. He observed the contribution of the organization to the economy as it moved the nation from an importing nation to a net exporter which has saved it huge Forex.
Earlier, Marketing Director, Dangote Cement Industries, Funmi Sanni said the promo will be on till September and encouraged consumers to make the smartest decision of buying from them. She said: “Our loyal customers deserve the best appreciation from us, they are our core value. Our competitive pricing has given us loyal customers and we can’t but give back to them and the society. The target of the reward and promo is for 21million Nigerians with over 45 cars, 400 Tricycles, Plastma TV’s, and others”.
The winner, Shuiabu in his reaction through an interpreter said it’s like a dream. He attributed the wining to God. He said: “It is God that gave me the car because nothing qualified me to dream of owing a car. I am an illiterate and a simple cement mixer in Oniru, Victoria lsland. l bought 10 bags of Dangote Cement on that fateful day and didn’t realise that God was waiting to bless me in a way that l couldn’t have dreamt of”.