Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, drew the ire of Bayelsa residents and members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the weekend following a statement containing names of his preferred aspirants for his party’s primary election ahead of the November governorship poll. Dickson’s political family, the Restoration Caucus of the PDP, in a statement, named only three persons as members of the caucus that had indicated interests to pick the governorship forms. They are the Chief of Staff, Government House, Talford Ongolo, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Kemela Okara and the Senator representing the Bayelsa Central Senatorial District, Senator Douye Diri. It was, however, observed that no sooner had the government released the names that residents took to their various social media platforms to criticise and reject the choice of the governor. The residents especially members of the PDP described the three aspirants as unpopular and stingy saying the party should be prepared to lose the state to the All Progressives Congress (APC) if it settled for any of them. Most of the commentators, who said they would not allow any stingy person to fly the flag of the PDP, added that it was inconceivable for the governor to contemplate any of the three names as his successor. Most of them urged the governor to drop the idea or they would be forced to vote for whoever the APC would present as its candidate. One of them Onitsha Miepanmo wrote: “Dickson is a good man and has a golden heart for the Ijaw People. He cannot afford to see Bayesla People suffer after his successful two terms in office. But I was shocked to see an official statement from his Special Adviser regarding the forthcoming gubernatorial election. “The announcement of three aspirants as preferred candidate among so many vibrant aspirants inside the PDP that will continue the good works started by the Restoration administration is uncalled for. I believe Dickson doesn’t have hand in this so-called stingy preferred candidates”. In his reaction, Ibifaa Princewill, said the governor would play into the hands of the opposition if he decided to work for any of the three aspirants to emerge as the PDP candidate while Collins Baker described them as worst aspirants. A known leader of the PDP, Tokpo Coronation, said none of the persons mentioned in the statement could win an election. But Wilson said following the release of the statement, the restoration caucus had commenced the process for the selection of the party’s candidate for the November 16 governorship election in the state. He said the decision was taken in a meeting under the leadership of Dickson following the successful conclusion of the three-day fasting and prayer session organized by the state to seek the face of God on the critical issue of selecting the next PDP candidate. Continue on Page 2