World wrestling silver medalist and five-time African champion, Odunayo Adekuoroye has qualified for the forthcoming Africa Games in Morocco after winning gold medal in the 3rd Governor Dickson National Wrestling Classics which came to an end at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Samson Siasia Sports Complex in Bayelsa on Monday. NationSport reports that the classics which was declared closed by the Governor of Bayelsa State, Serieke Dickson, saw two-time Commonwealth gold medalist Adekuoroye defeated Patient Kakanda of Bayelsa in the gold medal match o the 57kg Women’s Wrestling event. Nine-time Africa Champion and Commonwealth Games gold medalist, Blessing Oborududu of Bayelsa also booked her place in the continent’s showpiece by defeating Eze Ugochukwu of the Nigeria Navy to win the gold medal at stake in the 68kg Women’s Wrestling. Also, five-time African Champion, Daniel Amas of Bayelsa once agains retained his national title by beating Richard Ebiday of Anambra by technical superiority in the final of the 65kg Men’s Freestyle event. Two-time Africa champion, Melvin Bibo of Beyelsa also secured his place in the Africa Games team after beating Lucky Opia of Delta 31-2 in the 86kg Men’s Freestyle event. Two-time Commonwealth gold medalist, Aminat Adeniyi of Ondo defeated Rachael Patience of Bayelsa by technical superiority to win gold in the 62kg Women’s Wrestling. Two-time Africa champion, Mercy Genesis of Bayelsa defeated Kadijat Idris of Ondo State to win gold in the 50kg Women’s Wrestling. Three-time African Champion, John Emmanuel retained his national title by defeating hard-fighting  Ekpefa Timifa Bello of Delta 4-1 in the final of the 74kg Men’s Freestyle event. Africa champion, Ebikewenimo Welson of Bayelsa beat Simon Inoziom of Edo 3-2 to win gold in the 57kg Men’s Freestyle event. A total of 532 wrestlers from 26 states and 26 wrestling clubs with 139 officials participated in this year’s edition of the classics which served as qualifier for the Africa Games in Morocco and the World championship in Kazakhstan later this year. 