The House of Representatives has given reasons for not taking over Edo State Assembly and when the Green Chamber is likely to do so. Speaking with reporters on Fruday, the ad hoc committee on Media and Publicity, represented by Hon. Yusuf Gaji said there is the need to harmonise the reports by the two Chambers first. His words: “The activities of the House were achieved with these little sittings that we have conducted so far, and some of the ad hoc committees have submitted their reports. ” Like the Edo Assembly crisis, Bauchi Assembly crisis, Ethics and Privileges regarding one of our members, Bright Takuno; and others. They have submitted their reports and the House has taken position on those reports. While being reminded that its one week after the House passed resolutions on Edo Assembly and if the House will eventually take over the Edo House of Assembly provided its conditions are not met. “The Speaker of the House of Representatives is not God. We made mistakes. I am not saying that our decisions for approving the recommendations by the committee of which I was a member; the committee that investigated the Edo State Assembly crisis… “We gave one week upon which the governor should act, failure of which we would invoke Section 11(4) of the Constitution that donates power to the House of Representatives to do the needful whenever there is crisis. “But be that as it may, if you look at the report on Bauchi investigation, there was one item that was added to that of Bauchi; that the House should transmit its recommendations to the Senate. ” In a situation where there are two committees put in place by the House and the Senate, I think the positions need to be put together by the two organs of the National Assembly before any other thing. “That was why Bauchi gave one month and Mr. Speaker equally ruled that they (Edo State Assembly ) should be treated the same way. “The report of Edo too should be harmonised with that of the Senate, after which we will wait and see if the position of the Senate concurs with that of the House. “And within the period, from the day the Senate takes position on these two states, and the governors refuse to act in that direction, definitely we are going to employ the service of Section 11(4) of the Constitution,” the lawmaker said. Recall that the House through an ad hoc committee, headed by Hon. Abdulrasak Namdas had threatened over a week ago that the National Assembly will take over the functions of the Edo State House of Assembly should the Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and members of the 7th Edo House not meet three conditions. The conditions are yet to be met