FOR many survivors of breast cancer, wearing the right bra and prostheses can go a long way in helping them heal emotionally and physically. But finding such bras after breast cancer isn’t always an easy task. Hope came alive for cancer survivors in Lagos at the launching of a collection of silicon breast forms and mastectomy bras specifically designed to meet their needs. The launch was made possible by Bricon Global Consult Ltd. and held at Yaba, Lagos. For breast cancer survivor Shola Ahmed (not real name), the search has been a hassle since 1993. According to her, she has been searching for mastectomy bras since her surgery in 1993 in Nigeria. “I’ve been looking for how to purchase this since 1993 but all to no avail until now that I’ve been able to get one.” The survivors expressed excitement as they purchased the special brassieres, which they said they were seriously in need of many years ago. She urged government and philanthropists to create a platform where these brassieres could be easily purchased in states of the federation. The survivor said “accessing these brassieres in Nigeria had been a serious challenge for most of us, we want governments at all levels and philanthropists to create platforms where we can easily get them. “I have a friend who went for plastic surgery at the cost of N4 million because she was not aware of this special brassier which is capable of boosting our confidence. “I also know of another woman who had been managing the one she got five years ago in the U.S.” According to her, most survivors who do not have access to the brassieres suffer stigmatisation, thereby developing psychological problems. She therefore urged government to assist survivors with items and facilities that would help them to live normal lives with confidence. Speaking about the essence of the breast care exhibition, the Managing Director of Bricon Global Consult Ltd. Ms Abigail Simon-Hart, said it was organised to alleviate the suffering which cancer survivors go through to live a normal life “For women who have undergone a mastectomy, bra shopping can be frustrating, to say the least. The bras that used to fit probably aren’t an option anymore and even after a reconstructive surgery, the shape of the breast often changes, making it hard to shop for traditional lingerie, hence the need for them to get the right silicone forms and mastectomy bras,” she said. Simon-Hart, also a breast cancer survivor, said that the exhibition and subsidised sale of the mastectomy brassieres followed her observation of difficulties most cancer survivors faced in accessing the product in Nigeria. She added that the platform was to enable breast cancer survivors in the country to have easy access to the special female commodity to enable them to have a sense of femininity and confidence. Simon-Hart, who donated over 300 mastectomy brassieres to breast cancer survivors through her foundation, said this was her way of assisting survivors, being a survivor too. She said: “I want breast cancer patients to know that there is no shame in having breast cancer, they should not allow the fear of losing their breasts to discourage them from seeking medical attention”, she said. “It is better to lose the breast than to lose our lives, so it is better to speak out once changes are observed in the breasts. “There are good and affordable options after breast surgeries now and our office is opened for people to get these brassieres. For booking and appointment for mastectomy bras call 08023620012 Acording to Hart, Bricon Global Consult partnered with Nicola Jane in UK and Truelife Breastcare in Dublin to make mastectomy brassieres available at affordable prices to women who need in Nigeria.   