Worried by the need to ensure that people make adequate plans ahead of raising children, a local organization which specializes in entertainment-education via radio and television, Population Media Centre (PMC) has concluded arrangement to begin the broadcasting of a new radio show across Oyo and Ogun states of the Southwest states. The new show christened ‘Jolokoto,’ according to the PMC Country Representative, Mr Ephraim Okon, is to address gender-related issues, human rights, health and environmental information. Okon told reporters in Ibadan the new 120-episode radio show leverages the high-quality health care networks available from PMCs four clinical partners. He maintained the focus of the radio show is to remodel behaviour and peoples characters in a way that would show to them that they can have the number of children they want but must plan their way through so as not to end up as issues. Okon maintained that the better the plan people have as parents in terms of family planning and children spacing, the better and easier they find it to manage the family. He said: “On August 8th 2019, Jolokoto (Mirror of Life), a new radio show in Yoruba will begin broadcasting across Oyo and Ogun states in Southwestern Nigeria. The storylines will span 120 episodes, broadcasting for about 15 months while the audiences explore love, violence, hope and fear. “The dramatic show, broadcasting in the two states on multiple public and privately own radio stations will draw people into different stories of families, friends and privately own radio stations, will draw people into different stories of families, friends and enemies struggling to succeed among the challenges of everyday life. “And these stories will not only entertain audiences with every episode, they are also designed to inform and educate. Jolokoto is designed to seamlessly weave gender issues, human rights, health and environmental information into the storylines. “Dramatising daily life allows for inclusion of increasing important struggles such as gender-based violence, reproductive health rights and environmental issues into the consciousness of the people. “Specifically, the new 120-episode radio show leverages the high-quality health care networks available from our four clinical partners, seeking to: “Increase voluntary, modern contraceptive use among youth, reduce unintended pregnancy among adolescent girls of age 15-19 and increase family planning/long acting reversible contraception (LARC) use.” A total of 16 radio stations comprising ten and six from both Oyo and Ogun state respectively.