AS part of its commitment to celebrate the rich culture of the south-eastern part of Nigeria, Hero Lager, from the stable of International Breweries Plc, has unveiled a reality television show tagged, ‘The People’s Hero’ to raise a new set of ambassadors who will serve as cultural promoters. According to the organisers, a grand prize of seven million naira is up for grabs for the winner while the first and second runner-ups will go home with two million naira and one million naira respectively. Auditions will hold in Enugu on August 17 and August 24 at Owerri, after which 60 participants will be selected from both cities. This number will then be pruned to 20 contestants that will eventually qualify for the show. The maiden edition of the show will be anchored by On-Air-Personality and comedian, Chinedu Ani, popularly known as Nedu and indigenous rapper, Illbliss, has been pronounced as one of judges. Marketing Director, International Breweries Plc, Tolulope Adedeji, said ‘The People’s Hero’ which will run between August and December, is a reality show that seeks to reward ingenuity and passion. “At International Breweries Plc, we can never get tired of giving back to our consumers who have shown unwavering support for the brand over the years,” Adedeji said. Some months back, the company, part of the AB InBev family, had flagged-off campaign, #NeverForgetYourIdentity on social media to re-awake people not to forget their true tradition, values, and heritage. “Wherever you come from, you should be proud to show your identity. We are taking the campaign, #NeverForgetYourIdentity a step forward by unveiling ‘The People’s Hero’, a first TV show centered on richness and beauty of the southeast in the country. The show will require participants to display their skills in either singing, acting, spoken words or dancing, which will revolve around their understanding of the Igbo culture.” She further hinted that anyone who is fluent in English language, pidgin English, Igbo or any indigenous language within South East and South South is eligible to participate as the show is open to persons of Igbo origin and non-Igbo persons who speak their language fluently, resides in the region and understands the culture. Marketing Manager, Hero lager, Obumneke Okoli said: “This is definitely going to be a fun, educative and exciting show. Participants will be exposed to their traditions, belief, values, while viewers will be better enlightened about their culture which like many others is being eroded by globalization.” Viacom International Media Networks Africa (VIMNA) is producing the show through its entertainment brand, MTV Base. VIMNA Country Manager, Bada Akintunde Johnson said Viacom is proud to be partnering with the Hero brand and considers it a privilege to produce the show. “The future of the South East and South South people is bright with a brand like hero showing commitment to the people and their wellbeing. We are certain more HEROes will emerge from this show to further enrich Nigeria’s thriving creative industry.”