Elder statesman and veteran journalist Aremo Olusegun Osoba, has reflected on the formation of the umbrella pro-democracy organisation, the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), saying that members of the group made enormous sacrifices for democracy. He said the die-hard democratic fighters took a risk by rubbing shoulders with the dreadful dictator Head of State Gen. Sani Abacha, who he said, oppressed, intimidated, repressed and molested members of the organisation. Osoba told the story of NADECO’s emergence and its titanic struggle for the revalidation of the annulled presidential election won by candidate of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP), the late Chief Moshood Abiola, in his 341-page memoir: ‘Battlelines: Adventures in Journalism and Politics,’ published by Diamond Publications Limited. The book will be presented to the public next Monday as part of activities marking his 80th birthday in Lagos. The former two-time Ogun State governor recalled that as pro-democracy forces mobilised against the Abacha regime, it was realised that there was no united front or an umbrella organisation to coordinate the onslaught. He said before NADECO was formed, he operated in a small group with former Anambra State Governor Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, his Edo State counterpart, Chief John Oyegun and Dr. Doyin Okupe, former national secretary of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC). Osoba noted that Abacha security goons were monitoring the activities of the pro-democracy and civil rights groups all over the country, particularly in the southwest. He said the pro-democracy agitations climaxed when Abiola returned from the inauguration of South African President Nelson Mandela, where he reportedly received a hero’s welcome, to the embarrassment of the Nigerian delegation, led by Gen. Abacha. Osoba recalled: “The major organization that emerged in this period, which helped to shape the anti-military and pro-democracy movement, was the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO).   NADECO was roughly a product of another organization, which existed before the June 12 crisis.  This was the Committee for Unity and Understanding (CUU).  The overriding motive of CUU was the campaign for power shift from the North to the South. “It was started not long after the Babangida transition-to-civil-rule programme started.  Founders and key members of the CUU included Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu, Chief Sam Mbakwe, Mr. Ayo Opadokun, Chief Edward Kobani, Chief Lulu Briggs, Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe, Alhaji Abdulazeez Ude, Ambassador Tanko Yusuf and General Theophilus Danjuma. “However, when the June 12 election was annulled, the CUU, in conjunction with such groups as the Movement for National Reformation (MNR), led by Chief Anthony Enahoro, Egbe Ilosiwaju Yoruba, led by General Adeyinka Adebayo, Afenifere, led by Chief Michael Ajasin, the Progressive Alliance for Justice and Unity (PAJU), Justice Forum and National Patriotic Front (NPF) and several other pro-democracy and human rights groups like Beko Ransome Kuti’s Campaign for Democracy came together to form NADECO in General Adeyinka  Adebayo’s house, GRA, Ikeja.” Osoba also recalled that, on May 15, 1994, the old school principal, First Republic federal parliamentarian, last President of Egbe Omo Oduduwa, and Second Republic governor of old Ondo State, Pa Ajasin,   emerged as the leader of the new group, which now included politicians and activists from 49 groups, who were committed to the validation of the June 12 presidential election results. He said the 49 signatories to NADECO treaty  were: Chief Michael Adekunle Ajasin, Mallam Lawal Dambazzau, Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe, Chief Anthony Enahoro, Major General Adeyinka Adebayo (rtd.), Chief Bola Ige, Commodore Dan Suleiman, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, Prof. Anya O. Anya, Col. Yohanna Madaki, Rev. Fr. Moses Adasu, Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti, Rev. Tunji Adebiyi, Chief Ade Ojo, Chief Ralph Obioha, Chief Empire Kanu, Chief Michael Anyiam, Dr. Sola Soile, Vice Admiral Akin Aduwo, Chief E. Duru, Mr. Nick Dazzang, Mr. Labaran Maku, Dr. A. A. Akingba, Mr. Babas Eko Oyekanmi, Mr. Alex Ayatolla, Mrs. Sarah Jubril, and Alhaji Ganiyu Dawodu. Others were Mr. O. P. Edodo, Mr. A. Barber, Otunba Olabiyi Durojaiye, Chief Olusegun Osoba, Chief John Odige-Oyegun, Prof. Bolaji Akinyemi, Alhaji Mohammed Siraj Hamza, Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, Otunba Aboyade Cole, Major General Olufemi Olutoye (rtd), Chief Sobo Sowemimo, Dr. Steve Achema, Chief Olaniwun Ajayi, Chief Olu Falae, Brigadier-General Jonah Jang, Chief Abraham Adesanya, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Mr. Alao Aka-Bashorun, Mr. Emmanuel Njiwah, Chief Vincent Nwizugbo and Dr. Uma Eleazu.” Osoba said NADECO later invited Abiola to a meeting where he was asked to confirm if he was ready to actualise his mandate and lead the struggle. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain said, following the formation of NADECO, he was arrested by the police, adding that he called the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) correspondent on his mobile phone to announce it to the world. Narrating his ordeal in detention, Osoba said: “My arrest which was immediately relayed live on the BBC Radio World Service as I was being driven to the Police Headquarters in Kam Salem House, Lagos where I would be detained.  The security agents were everywhere looking for other NADECO leaders to arrest. “The man in charge of my interrogation was one Auta, a deputy commissioner of police.  I was left in very humiliating condition in a large, rat-infested office where about twenty policemen had their desks.  Once the policemen closed for the day, the big rodents took over.  A combination of four desks served as my orthopaedic bed. “However, I was lucky that one of the commissioners of police at Kam Salem House, then Prince Rilwan Babatunde Akiolu, who later became the Oba of Lagos, gave me the key to his office and asked me to  sleep there every night.  I was grateful for this but was apprehensive that I could put Akiolu in trouble if found to be aiding and abetting an “enemy” of the regime.  He asked me not to worry.  I also used his office phone to contact my colleagues in the struggle. “Later, Commodore Dan Suleiman and I were charged to court for forming an “illegal organization called National Democratic Coalition (NADECO).” Interesting enough, the man who led our defence in court was Chief Abraham Adesanya, himself a leading member of that ‘illegal organization.’ Others like Chief Enahoro and Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti of the Campaign for Democracy were also arrested.  Former Governors Bola Ige and Balarabe Musa were also detained with us briefly. “Justice Tajudeen Odunowo eventually granted us bail, but the government appealed.  At the appeal, Justice Babatunde Mahmood Belgore, the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, upheld the decision to grant us bail and we were subsequently released on bail while the case continued.”                   Osoba also reflected on the famous Epetedo declaration by Abiola on June 11, 1994, saying that he did not participate because it was when he was either in detention or in hiding He said as tension engulfed the country, Abacha arrested, harassed and killed many protesters. Osoba said following the Epetedo declaration, Abiola  went into hiding. He stressed: He first sought refuge in the house of Late Prince Supo Adetona, a leading member of the Hope Family, led by the late Chief Debo Akande.  The members of the Hope Family were highly placed professionals who were not politicians, but were, nonetheless, committed to supporting credible people to secure public office. “Prince Adetona’s house was considered not safe enough for Abiola because it was well-known as the meeting point for the Hope Family.  He was transferred to the house of Chief Rasheed Gbadamosi, another member of the Hope Family living in Victoria Island.  But again, it was realized his house was no longer safe as the place might have been compromised. “He was moved from there to the mainland, to the house of Mr. Jide Sawyer, where he hid until he emerged in public on June 23.  He had been in hiding for eleven days.  He stopped over in Surulere to address a mammoth crowd.  From there, he made a triumphant, ride home to Ikeja, followed by the “people’s army” of motorcycle (okada) dispatch riders and crowds of supporters hailing him. “It was a scene straight out of the Bible when Jesus was making his triumphant march to Jerusalem before his arrest and crucifixion.  In the evening, they came for Abiola and took him away, never to return back alive.” Osoba reflected on the heroic contribution of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) to the strategic struggle, saying that the strike embarked on the union paralysed the country. He added: “ The country was virtually at a standstill.  NUPENG, which was led by Comrade Frank Kokori, was the most important in the attempt to halt business activities and movements across the country. “With no supply of petroleum across the country, everything came to a halt.  This was followed with mass protests across the major cities of south-western Nigeria.  Kokori more or less became the head of the labour wing of NADECO and the most powerful opposition figure at this point; and, by that token, the most wanted man in Nigeria.” Osoba said Abacha became more desperate and dreadful, following his infamous August 1994 “Enough is Enough” national broadcast. He said they learnt about the speech while at a strategic meeting in Prof. Bolaji Akinyemi’s residence at Ikeja. Osoba stressed: “The meeting in Akinyemi’s house was a ploy.  Our leaders had decided to internationalize the struggle.  A secret plan by the leaders had been made to ferry Akinyemi out that night through the now famous NADECO route out of the country.  He was perhaps the first to test the NADECO escape route.  His assignment as “Ambassador Plenipotentiary” was to use his influence as former foreign minister to liaise with foreign governments. “There are many unsung heroes of the June 12 struggle.  One of them is the late Senator Paul Ukpo who was instrumental in taking out Akinyemi through the secret NADECO escape route.  A Benin Republic Architect friend of the Ukpo family was the link at Benin end. “For some weeks, no one heard anything from Abacha.  We were not too sure of what was responsible for this strange silence.  However, when he eventually emerged from his solitude and broke his silence, he sounded bellicose. “His statement was clear that he was not willing to surrender power.  What followed was the rolling out of a more vicious repressive apparatus by Abacha.  Shortly after Abacha’s broadcast, Chief Enahoro was arrested.  The former secretary of CUU and secretary of NADECO, Mr. Ayo Opadokun went underground but remained vocal with powerful press releases.  Months after, he was arrested at his hideout on Lagos Island.  He was staying in a flat facilitated for the struggle by Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu.  But he was given away by a Judas member of his domestic staff who knew of his location. “It was around this time that I phoned Kokori and urged him to go completely underground as related elsewhere in this book. Eventually, Enahoro was released.  Subsequently, upon the intervention of some people, particularly Archbishop Olubunmi Okogie, Abacha invited Chief Enahoro for negotiations with NADECO.  Chief Cornelius Adebayo accompanied Enahoro to Abuja on behalf of NADECO. “But the negotiations with Abacha didn’t go anywhere because all he wanted was to remain in power indefinitely and NADECO was never going to accept that.” 