Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta Rector  Dr Samson Odedina has announced that the institution is  open for academics as well as business activities. Odedina stated this during the inauguration of the Students Union (SU ) executives held at Ramotu Ibironke Babalakin hall of the institution. He confirmed that the lingering issues had been resolved. Odedina said: “We are coming in as new Mapoly. Tell your friends to come back to Mapoly. We’ve settled our differences. We are now open to students and business. “Tell your friends not to go to other schools. There’s a polytechnic in Abeokuta.” Odedina said the management of the institution has also extended the school fee payment and registration deadline by two weeks, adding that there would  be no penalty on school fees payment for the session. He said the 2019/2020 advert would soon be published for 44 accredited programmes in the institution. The rector said the polytechnic has also been certified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICAN) to run accounting programmes for another three years. Odedina congratulated the new executives, saying that they were a product of credible election. “I congratulate you new executives because you’re a product of credible election. You have conducted the best election in the history of Mapoly and your tenure will also be credible because you came in with credibility. “I’m sure the new president (of SU) will go places because anytime you speak, you speak Mapoly. You’re the new face of Mapoly and we are ready to celebrate you, “he said Odedina equally congratulated the past executive led by Razaq Owoiya and all departmental heads, adding that they all laid the foundation for restoring MAPOLY. Odedina promised to listen to the students. “As the new Rector, we’ll listen to you. We would seek your advice and nobody would oppress or harass you. As you also know that if you want to be a successful father, you must be able to discipline your children with love, we’ll also discipline you with love,’’ he said. The new students’ Union President Samson Omoniyi promised to fulfil his campaign promises.