The Sokoto state chapter of the All Progressives Congress(APC) has applauded the dispassionate resolution taken by the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s and the party’s NWC to expel its former National Vice Chairman North West, Barrister Inuwa Abdulkadir. It described the action as not only supported the chapter’s efforts but assisted in upholding the spirit of fair play and justice among party members. The chapter, in a statement on Sunday by its chairman, Alhaji Sadiq Isah Achida, said the action would further enhance cohesion and unity of purpose at all levels of party hierarchy. ” We also want to take this opportunity to call on the former National Vice Chairman, North West, to take this development in good faith and regard it as reward for his actions and or inactions,” it stated. Accordingly, Achida also noted that the development would significantly deepen and strengthen the rule of natural justice; ” that one should only reap where he sows. “The former National Vice Chairman, North West failed to live up to the expectations of his exalted office and therefore deserved what he got. ” This is because every party member is expected to be a member in spirit and in action. ” The action of our national headquarters on the other hand, has also added another feather of honor to the party, for having a listening leadership that carries its various state chapters along in all its affairs”, the chairman further said. ” This action will further enhance cohesion and unity of purpose at all levels of party hierarchy.” The party added: “We wish to request that he follows the path of honor by resigning from all federal appointments which he got by virtue of his election into the office of the National Executive Committee of the party. “By so doing, he will have ample time to attend to his many offices given to him by his new party, the PDP such as, chancellor of the Sokoto State University. “This is the honorable thing for him to do. Should he fail or refuse to do so, the Sokoto State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will be left with no option, than to take all steps necessary, to see him out of that office.” While recalling the genesis of the issues that sparked the expulsion of the National Officer, the state chapter chairman of the party said: “The resolution started from the Magajin Gari A Ward in Sokoto, down to the Sokoto North Local Government and the entire State party leadership, made up of the State Executive Committee, the local government party chairmen, as well as all elected party representatives in the State and Federal legislative houses. The resolution sought the endorsement of the national headquarters, in order to give effect to the removal of the national officer over anti party activities, including
sabotage and disloyalty to the party of which the process finally came to conclusion last Thursday 18th of July, 2019″, Achida said in the statement. However, while thanking Comrade Oshiomhole and members of his National Working Committee for not only supporting our efforts, the state chapter expressed conviction that his(Barrister Abdulkadir’s) continued stay in that office will be another chance to further sabotage activities and programs of the federal government. ” We also seize this opportunity and appeal to all party members occupying party or public offices, at every level to continue to remain loyal and law abiding citizens of our dear country”, the statement concluded.