•The Nigeria Police Force must be better able to defend itself A series of recent attacks on police officers has tragically revealed the ever-present danger of police work in Nigeria and must serve as a major impetus for ensuring that the police are able to carry out their duties with increased safety and greater efficiency. The police suffered three serious attacks on July 1 in Bayelsa, Rivers and Imo states. In Bayelsa, a group of armed men attacked a police station in the Agudama community. Coming in from a river close to the station, they took the Divisional Police Officer hostage, forced him to open the station’s armoury, took the weapons and killed him. They then went through all rooms in the station and murdered three other officers, one of whom was pregnant. Two policemen who were outside the station engaged the criminals in a gun battle, but could not withstand the superior firepower of their adversaries and were severely injured. In addition to the weapons, police uniforms were also stolen by the attackers. In the Rivers operation, armed bandits shot and killed two policemen at a checkpoint at Ojoto Mile 2 in Port Harcourt and stole their service rifles. In Imo State, a group of suspected cultists burnt down Otoko police station in Obowo Local Government Area, after stealing weapons from it. Other reports, however, claim that the act was perpetrated by a local mob angry at the accidental killing of an indigene of the community by a policeman. The occurrence of these attacks in widely-dispersed areas on the same day is a sobering testimony to the brazen impunity of those who perpetrated them, the utter inadequacy of current policing methods, and a savage wake-up call to a beleaguered nation. Between January 2014 and April 2016, a total of 395 police officers were killed in Nigeria. About 272 more sustained varying degrees of injury during the same period. The emergence of militant activity in the Niger Delta, the increase of herdsmen-settler clashes, the spike in politically-inspired violence, as well as the widespread availability of small arms has made police work a very dangerous undertaking indeed. The crisis is further aggravated by poor training regimens for police officers, the lack of proper equipment and facilities, as well as inadequate salaries and conditions of service. The attacks in Bayelsa, Rivers and Imo states are united by three elements – the vulnerability of the officers, the audacity of the attackers and the absence of an effective security response. In Bayelsa, the attackers simply swept into a station that did not even have perimeter fencing, to say nothing of more sophisticated defences. In Rivers, the officers were just shot down where they stood. In Imo, the station was attacked and burnt without any apparent effort. In all three cases, the police were unable to muster an effective response. The defenders in Bayelsa were outgunned, the officers in Rivers were taken by surprise, and the Imo State station was completely incapable of saving itself from being ransacked and burnt. The consequences are terrifying. The most immediate concern is that police uniforms and weapons are now in the hands of ruthless criminals who are very likely to use them to perpetrate even more heinous crimes. Then there is the increased possibility of similar outrages being carried out by others now that the vulnerability of the nation’s police has been so brutally exposed. This, in turn, could spark a wave of criminal activity characterised by greater extremes of impunity and heartlessness than have ever been hitherto witnessed. The Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has instructed that the Bayelsa State attackers be hunted down and brought to justice. However, it is important that any truly effective response must transcend the limitations of particular incidents and address the fundamental issue of inherent police vulnerability to such attacks. The Nigeria Police Force must reconfigure itself in such a way that it becomes more professional in its conduct, inspire genuine respect in the public, and is better-equipped to carry out its statutory functions. This can only be achieved by more comprehensive recruitment and training procedures, improved funding and authentic community-outreach efforts. Police stations must undergo a comprehensive retrofitting process designed to make them less vulnerable to arbitrary attacks. All stations must be in radio contact with the state headquarters of the police force; this means that they must have constant electricity supply as well as functional radio equipment. Coherent and workable threat-response protocols must be established for different situations so that the policemen involved know exactly what to do at the appropriate time. May the souls of the deceased police officers rest in perfect peace.