In a few weeks from now, Rev. John Okesiji will be celebrating his 92nd birthday. The former member of Oyo State Schools Board and Christian Pilgrims Welfare Board spoke with YINKA ADENIRAN about his boyhood dreams, service in the ministry, old age and 64-year-old marriage, among other issues. YOU were 32 when Nigeria got her independence. What was it like and what was your dream of Nigeria at the time? Well, I entered the seminary in January 1952 and I graduated as pastor in the Baptist Church in 1954. In 1955, I was given the opportunity to come to the high school here because of my performances in the seminary. When I was in the High school, I was privileged to pastor Alafia Oluwa Baptist Church in Fiditi because I was already a trained pastor and they put me there to help. Throughout my secondary school education, I was the student-pastor of that church. I finished in 1959. In 1960, which was the independence year, I was a full time Pastor there. It was a joyous occasion. I was there at the time as the manager of a school, the pastor of a church and I was really expecting great things for Nigeria. But, I will just say that I have not been satisfied so much with what I am seeing today and what is happening in the country. As a 32-year-old at the time Nigeria got her independence, what was the country like? The picture was the expectations of great things to come. I know we were governed by the British people at the time. But like someone learning a job or graduating from a school, it was something else entirely that I was expecting. I was expecting a different life entirely; that we were free, we would govern ourselves and everything was okay. For the first few years, we followed the British pattern. People were given appointments on merit. Although soon after it the political crisis began, even then there was not much hatred or discrimination. We were all happy. We thought Nigeria is ours; you can work anywhere you want or settle down anywhere you want as a Nigerian. But soon after, the AG crisis began. That was when things started falling apart. The Oyo (including Ibadan) hated the Ijebu. The Ijebu looked down on the Oyo; at least that was the impression at the time. It was getting worse before the military intervened in January 1966. Where you people who saw it at independence wanted it and will you still say we have any cause to celebrate Nigeria? One is not happy with the present state of the country, but the fact that we are still one, one has to celebrate. As a person too, before you get married, you expect a whole lot. But when you get married, you will see that you have some difficulties living together in the home. But that does not mean you are not married. If the marriage does not break, you still have to thank God. I was telling you a while ago that my marriage to my wife is 64 years old. I will not say that every day of the 64 years was a happy day. There were times that we violently disagreed. I understand better, probably because I am a pastor, that my wife is a unique person and that I am also a unique person. Our upbringings were different. If we were of the same family, they wouldn’t have allowed us to marry in the first place. So, we are different families and possibly different towns and cities. I am from Okeho and if possibly I married and Ibadan woman, I would not expect her not to be different. For instance, there are some foods that my wife can eat at any time of the day, but I can’t, whether in the morning or night. She could eat it any time of the day and as often as she could, but I can’t, because of the way I was brought up. So, such differences, like hobbies too, matter. So if that happens within a family and even among children of the same parents, you expect such a thing to happen in the country too. So, that we have difficulties as a country too does not stop us from celebrating. But those things are not yet as we expect them to be is what actually worries me. At 91, you are still looking healthy and sound. What is the secret? Well, first of all, it’s God’s grace. I know of many who are younger than I, and even my age-mates who don’t have balanced memories anymore, but some of us are given that privilege. I still read and I still teach in the church on Sundays. I was 91 in 2018 and close to 92. So, it is God’s grace in the first place. When I was in school, I was a sportsperson. I used to run and I was a footballer. And when I was teaching too, I took interest in doing a lot of exercise. And from the time I had been Pastoring, I take my exercises every morning. Before I bought my first bicycles, I used to walk out a distance of about 2-3 miles before coming back, and I still do it. When I was in big towns like Oyo and Ogbomosho, I usually drive myself to a school field somewhere. I will have my exercise, and after that, I feel fine, eat fine, and sleep fine. It is something that is part of my life now. How early were you tested or entrusted with leadership positions and what was it like? When I was in primary school. I was about 12 years old and also a small boy but when I came back in 1944 and in 1945 I was made the general monitor for the school. When I moved from that school to another school, the highest class in the new school at the time was Standard Four and I moved to another school that had up to Standard Six, which was L.A School, Okeho. When I was there and in my final year too, I was a school prefect. So, I will say that I had been taking leadership positions and I enjoyed them. When I was teaching, maybe because people knew me to be the son of a Pastor, anywhere I was posted to as a teacher, and as soon as they hear that my father was a pastor, they would always give me a responsible position in the church, and in fact, that led to me taking interest in pastoring and ministerial job, and I have enjoyed it. In Ogbomosho too, I was an Association Moderator. In our set up, we had the Church, the Association, the Conference and the Convention. The Association is a group of churches and I was chairman two times and secretary two times before I was the secretary of the conference before becoming the chairman of the conference. So, I have always been privileged to have leadership positions where I served. Which of those positions would you say was most tedious? Is it the one you had in Church or the one in government? There was none that was too difficult for me. I enjoyed all of them. The only one that I can say was a little risky for me was that as a trained pastor and not a trained teacher, I was just fortunate to be appointed to board. As a Board, we administered all secondary schools and teachers training colleges in Western State then. The schools’ board was the most dangerous for me. When I was appointed in 1992, one native of Ibadan was our chairman. We had the luck that during our time, the FG decided to take over all school and we had the instructions to move all school principals. Principals at the time were the lords in their schools. For example, at Olivet High School here in Oyo, it used to be Baptist Boys High School. The principal there was all in all. When they said we should move all of them, people like Tai Solarin, Baba Ajasin and others were principals of schools and were lords in their own rights. Those were difficult people. They didn’t like it. Our chairman went for a meeting in Lagos, and on his way back, he had an accident and died.Then some of the principals wrote anonymous letters to us telling us that the government sent us on a fool’s errand and that we were so naïve to obey and carry out the instructions; that our chairman had died and that we other members of the board would die too. There were many of such anonymous letters to us. I had to come from Ogbomosho to Ibadan every Wednesday for meetings. We were all terrified somewhat, but nothing happened to us. When there was a crisis in any school, they would call us and we would go there. Some principals or teachers who needed to be transferred or disciplined were given what they deserved but they didn’t like it. They were really ready to do anything to us. It was a very dangerous time for us. Then there was the question of bribery too. If anybody wanted transfer from a school to another, they would come and beg and bring bribe, but as a pastor, I didn’t take any money or bribe from anybody. Those we were able to help, we did, and those who we couldn’t help, we told them. Fortunately, we left there honourably. You have been married for 64 years to the same woman. What is it like? Well, fortunately, we are from the same town. Fortunately from the same quarter and also from the same church. We grew up together in the same locality. I knew her when she was very young, and as she grew up, I developed interest in her because I saw her as a like mind. I will say that it was God answering my prayers. I had the opportunity of studying her, knowing her parents. She also had the opportunity of knowing me and knowing my parents, so we didn’t have any problem that could lead to break-up or tension in the house. What is it like getting old? As a pastor, I have interest in reading. I have read a lot of things about family. I have read a whole lot of materials about old age, and it wasn’t anything unexpected to me. It was something I was hopeful of, and God spared my life that it came to be. And fortunately, as a pastor, a job with retirement benefit, my wife is getting her benefits and I am also getting mine. God blessed us with a house in Okeho and it was close to our retirement that God blessed us with this one that we are in. I didn’t intend to stay here but the one in Okeho, and we have been in it since 1980. When I was about to retire after 31 years in Ogbomosho, they wanted to buy land and build a house for me there because they wanted me to stay back there, but I didn’t want to due to its location and proximity to Okeho. But, they later knew I had a plot of land in Oyo here and they agreed to build the house and that is where we have been staying since 1997. Was there any childhood dream(s) you wanted but could not achieve when you look back today? Well, when I was in Ogbomosho, Oke Elerin, that should be around 1981 or thereabout, the World Council of Churches made certain scholarships available and a friend, S. T. Ola Akande knew about it as the Convention Secretary. He offered me but at the time, my children were in school and I didn’t have anyone I could entrust the children with. But I thought if I made use of the scholarships, it would affect my children. They were all young then. I have two boys and two girls. And I knew my wife couldn’t manage them alone and they could become rascals because the boys were already showing signs of rebellion. So, I rejected it because of the children, and they knew. I had to sit them up and told them about it; that I would not take the scholarship because I knew it would affect them. I knew some of our pastors too who took advantage of such offers and it affected their children. My eldest daughter retired four years ago as a Principal of Moniya Secondary School. So, she couldn’t have made it. When you look back now do you thank God or still feel unaccomplished? Well, I thank God because at least, I know I lost the opportunity and I asked him to give another person. But today, I have my children. They are now supporting us. We are living comfortably because of them. When we are sick, they take us to the hospital. They follow us there, they pay the bills. What we eat, they support us, although we also have our little means of livelihood but they make life more pleasant and comfortable for us. As a 91 years old man, how do you plan and run your day? It is a routine. As a Christian, one must pray, after which I stay in the room to listen to the news. After the news, by 9 to 10 am, I do my morning exercise, and I do that for between 30 minutes and one hour. It used to be one hour before, but as age sets in, I reduced it to between 30 and 45 minutes. When the weather is cold or when I have the time, I do about 45 minutes. If not, I do 30 minutes. Like today, I did only 30 minutes, but it’s a pleasure. After that, I take my bath and then my breakfast. If I have visitors or if I have something to read, I do that then I rest. Usually, I take about one hour of sleep. Sometimes I sleep and sometimes I don’t. When I don’t sleep, I switch on my radio and listen to the news. Then if I have any programme in the church, I go. I was driving myself to the church until the age of 85. But I don’t anymore. I now ask people to come and pick me. When they come, I got to church. If they don’t come, I won’t go. My church is actually not far.