Senate Deputy Minority Whip, Senator Sahabi Alhaji Ya’u, Wednesday appealed to the Federal Government to compliment efforts of the Zamfara State Government to bring quick end to the spate of insecurity and bloodletting in the state. Sahabi, while commending the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and his team for their visit to Zamfara State for on-the-spot assessment of the security challenges noted that measures already put in place by the state government are yielding some positive results. He said that the federal Government needed to provide a more conducive environment and encouragement that would return peace to the state. Senator Ya’u specifically expressed joy that the leadership of the House of Representatives have shown commitment and demonstrated courage to visit the state. He said, “Such visit would help the House of Representatives make an informed decision during budgetary sessions and would equally help in coming up with other critical interventions that would help in rebuilding the affected areas in the state as well as providing meaningful assistance to the affected persons.” The Senator expressed confidence that the proposed implementation of the RUGA scheme in the state by the governor will sufficiently address a major aspect of the root causes of the attacks. He said, “Crisis of such nature should be tackled by various means not limited to the use of maximum force. “What the state government is currently doing is not the use of force and everybody can attest to the fact that we are getting results, this can be built upon using other approaches that would address the root causes of these mindless killings. “It is important for everyone, every stakeholder to understand that every crisis have a root cause and until you address the fundamental issues. “There won’t be light at the end of the tunnel and it is on this premise that I urge the Federal government to assist in addressing the root causes and proffer solutions to this issues so that we can have peace sustained in that state and the entire region “. He asked stakeholders in the state to treat the issue of banditry with utmost sense of patriotism and not on political or religion lines. “When bandits attack, they do that without taking religion or political inclinations into account and everyone to that extent becomes a victim so we must put all hands on the deck and address this menace, ” he said.