Users of facebook, instagram, whatsapp and twitter experienced outages this morning all over the world. According to Down Detector reports, there were problems around the world while outages were concentrated in the eastern United States and parts of Europe and South America. Facebook outage map reveals, Europe, the United States, and Brazil reported the highest level of problems using the platform. An outage map for Instagram found the problems concentrated in the same areas, with the biggest spike in the northeast states of the U.S. WhatsApp’s problems mostly hit in Europe, Brazil, India, and Venezuela, where the app is used widely for texting. Instagram began having issues since 8:45 a.m. ET, with most of the user reports concentrated in the Northeast U.S. and Western Europe. The technical glitch prevented some Facebook and Whatsapp users from sharing photos, videos. Users of Facebook and Whatsapp were also encountering problems sharing photos, video and files, a Facebook spokesperson confirmed. Facebook tweeted that, “We’re aware that some people are having trouble uploading or sending images, videos and other files on our apps. We’re sorry for the trouble and are working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible. #facebookdown” For many Instagram users, most images and videos were failing to load in the app on Wednesday, July 3. On desktop, Instagram also was not loading images or videos, accompanied by a message that said “No photo description available” or messages with metadata tags like “Image may contain: food.” Some said when they tried to post photos, Instagram only displayed the caption and not the image, while other users reported an inability to access the service at all. Instagram acknowledged the access problems in a tweet at 12:15 p.m. ET, apologizing for the outage. “We’re aware that some people are having trouble uploading or sending images and videos on Instagram,” the tweet said. “We’re sorry for the trouble and are working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible. #instagramdown.” Twitter users also reported issues with direct messages on the separately owned and run social platform. “We’re currently having some issues with DM delivery and notifications. We’re working on a fix and will follow up as soon as we have an update for you,” Twitter’s support team tweeted. The glitch came after a rough week for international networks, with millions of websites worldwide temporarily unable to load on Tuesday morning due to a massive spike in processor usage at internet provider Cloudflare.