Cognisant of the current economic difficulties Nigerians face, moneybag.ng has debuted promising to add value to the saving culture of consumers especially those who hitherto have found it difficult to set money aside for the rainy day. The Online saving platform which is consumer-focused encourages all consumers regardless of age and status to save with attractive interest while restricting them access to the money saved until a stipulated agreed time between the depositor and the bank. “Moneybag.ng, the brain child of an indigenous technology firm based in Lagos, Nuture Technology Service Limited, was borne out of the need to address the many challenges faced by consumers as they try to save from their income while bringing convenience and transparency to the way people save,” said the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Nature Technology, Mr Uchenna Okezie. The product which was unveiled to the media was described as an innovation that is set to gain popularity amongst Nigerians based on its expected high uptake. According to Okezie, “saving is an activity that is crucial to the financial independence of any individual and with Moneybag.ng, we have created a customised savings solution that is flexible for everyday use and transparent for comprehension.” Unveiling the new product in an event at Ikeja, the CEO explained that “it is an online financial services platform that can be used by anyone regardless of age or profession with features such as savings, investments (“Baglocker” which helps you lock away funds for a set period with 9-13.5% per annum interest) and loans. It also has a lifestyle feature known as “Cliquebag” designed to help friends save together.” Okezie further stated, “A lot of you are already aware of the efforts we have put in over the past 10 months to be able to get to where we are today and be ready to move forward with this exciting new venture. We are all cognisant of the current economic difficulties Nigerians face. That is why right from when we started developing Moneybag.ng, our goal has always been to add value to the savings culture of the Nigerian society as we noticed that a lot of people find it difficult to save money owing to numerous reasons.” In his remarks, The chief operating officer of the company, Mr. Lanre Fadayomi, made it clear that low inclusivity and limited user-friendly financial service options were identified as the main difficulties why people found it hard to save and that this was a critical motivating factor when Nuture Technology decided to create an easy way so that people could save regardless of their age, background or qualification. Fadayomi also said, “Majority of what we do is transaction-based, so it required us to be customer centric with the types of savings plans Moneybag.ng offers. We also had to focus on a user experience that was easy to understand and interact with the needs of our customers while looking for ways to help customers better appreciate the product. We then infused lifestyle, investments and discipline in saving to help get customers interacting with the product.” In its efforts to creating Moneybag.ng, Nuture Technologies partnered with some giants of the financial sector towards ensuring a full integration for Moneybag.ng across the various financial services. The list of partners include, Interswitch, GTbank, First Bank’s FBN General Insurance, Moneyline, Primera Micro-Finance and others. The launch event which was held on 8th July, 2019 at the D’Podium International Event Centre in Lagos also witnessed the unveiling of former Big Brother Nigeria 2018 Housemate, Omololu Somuyiwa, as Moneybag.ng’s brand ambassador. Responding to questions on loans for consumers, the CEO of moneybag.ng explained that there are two types of loans which can be assessed without collateral from the consumer. “The consumer can only be qualified to apply for the loan if he/she has been on the platform for up to 90 days. Though we do not demand for collateral but you are expected to provide your BVN and we make sure that you have the capacity to service the loan.” 