Supporters of the idea of the Development Agenda for Western  Nigeria (DAWN) Commission heaved a sigh of relief when, for the first time in its five-year history, all the six states in the region fell into the hands of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors with the victory of Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi  in July, last year. They believed that having the same political party governing the six states would enable the governors speak with one voice on regional integration thereby strengthen the DAWN platform to drive regional development. But their hopes were dashed when Seyi Makinde, an Engineer, emerged the winner in the March 9, 2019 governorship election in Oyo State. Once again, concern grew about cohesion and the co-operation needed to enable the commission deliver on its mandate given the strategic position of the Oyo State in the region. It was learnt that the outgone Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose was only ambivalent about DAWN, an attitude interpreted to be political. When the governors, therefore, declared their intention to hold a regional security summit after their meeting in Abuja earlier in May, many wondered if Makinde, who is the only one elected under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), would not throw a clog on the wheel of the idea, given political differences. The audience had reasons to specifically focus on him and his utterances at the summit being the host governor. As the first to speak, Makinde, however, wowed the audience when he declared emphatically the decision of the six governors to embrace regional approach to development and security. He repeated his commitment to the decision all through his speech which earned him a lot of accolades. “Would you all join me in thanking the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) for putting together this historic summit today?,” Makinde said in the symbolic opening sentence of his speech. He continued: “I bring you greetings from the good people of Oyo State. When the governors of the southwestern states came together nearly six years ago to set up DAWN, they had a vision; we are here to carry on that vision.” This remark, analysts believe, was symbolic of his commitment to the DAWN project in spite of political party affiliation. He added after a while: “Two key issues stood out in my mind as I prepared for this event and I am sure, they are top-of-mind for the rest of us here today. I am talking about the kidnappings and the growing tension between farmers and herdsmen in the southwestern communities.” Then he highlighted the dangerous operations of kidnappers within Oyo State and on the Ibadan-Ife Highway to accentuate that his state is connected with others in the web of the criminal activities. Makinde further gave an insight into his inner thought when he explained that the interconnectivity of Southwest states makes it an imperative for governors to work together to tackle security and development, leveraging on the strength of each of the six states. He insisted repeatedly that politics would not be allowed to stand in the way of regional co-operation. “As a group on this side of the Niger, we have always had more things that unite us than those that divide us. We have always held our doors open and been welcoming of strangers. We want things to continue exactly like this because the diversity in our states is an ingredient for economic development.  We shall not allow the actions of miscreants and enemies of unity to make us change who we are,” he said. Continuing, he said: “As governors, it is our responsibility to ensure that everyone in our midst, indigene or alien resident is assured of security of their life and property. We also know that there are barriers preventing us from carrying out this constitutional responsibility to the fullest measure. One of those barriers is the fact that we do not control the security apparatuses in our states. “We are grateful that the Federal Government is finally giving due consideration to the creation of state police. You will agree with me that the advantages of community policing far outweigh whatever fears people may be expressing against it. We have reached that point in our national consciousness where we can no longer tarry; the time to act is now! “There can be no development without a secure environment. The minimum requirement for the Southwest region is to be able to work, live and play in a secure environment. “It is also my belief that at the end of our deliberations, we would have come up with arguments that will win them over to our side. I believe I speak not just for the good people of Oyo State but for the Southwest in general when I say, we are in support of state police. “When we speak in one voice, our united voice has more force, against insecurity. For this reason, Pillar Five: Security and Law Enforcement of the DAWN Strategy Roadmap lists Key Action Steps we should work towards which I agree with. They include: strengthening of community policing and neighbourhood watch capacity in the Southwest states.” In strengthening his position for regional co-operation, Makinde said: “A regional approach to security in Southwest Nigeria is important. The Southwest is interlinked. So, the challenges of one state can easily become the challenges of the entire region. Some of our states are also close to international borders, increasing the threat that we all collectively face.”