The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Thursday supported the open letter by former President Olusegun Obasanjo to President Muhammadu Buhari, describing it as timely. CAN said the President should scrutinise the contents of the letter and curb the insecurity in the country which it said informed the letter in the first place. Responding to questions during a news conference in Abuja, CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, admonished Buhari to treat the letter with all sense of responsibility and accountability. He stated: “I think that this letter has just come up. But CAN is interested that the letter be treated with all sense of responsibility and accountability as a country because of the issues raised in it. I think the aim of the writer is to call the attention of the nation to things that are capable of putting fire on the nation. “We think that every Nigerian has the right as a part of the society to call the attention of leaders to order.” Citing the security situation in Taraba state, the Christian leader said the his Vice President, Rev. Caleb Ahima, could not travel out of his parish without military protection, noting that the state was under siege. He dismissed alleged demonisation of the Fulani ethnic group by other Nigerians, noting that the average Fulani man had always lived in peace with other citizens. Ayokunle distanced CAN from the solidarity visit to the founder of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, by the Federal Capital Territory chapter of the body,noting  the matter was still under investigation by the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria. He explained that the PFN would submit the report of its investigation in two weeks Ayokunle said, “I am telling you before God that PFN has set up a panel and that panel has started working and that panel has been given two weeks to submit its report on the investigation. No only that the two individuals concern have been invited by them and we are here assuring them that nothing will be covered. “We will never support immorality in whatever form. It is strange to the culture of the church and to the teachings of Christ. There is no pulpit I know in Nigeria that accepts immorality.”