The National President of the All Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) Mr Kolade Alabi on Friday commended the Ekiti State Government for reinstating eight Local Government Chairmen and their Councillors elected on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). The Assembly’s unanimous resolution was reached at Thursday’s plenary where it was resolved that the Chairmen and Councillors should be reinstated. The Assembly had on last December, 18 suspended indefinitely all the 16 LGAs Chairmen and 177 Councillors to pave way for a forensic audit of the councils’ account over alleged financial impropriety. They were indicted by the report of the Assembly Public Account Committee saddled with the responsibility of probing finances of the Councils. It was gathered their reinstatement followed the adoption of the reports of the House Committee of Public Petitions submitted by its Chairman, Mr Adegoke Olajide. The eight reinstated LGAs Chairmen and Councillors were: Ijero, Moba, Gbonyin, Ado and Irepodun/Ifelodun, Ikole, Ekiti South West and Ekiti West. Alabi specifically thanked Governor Kayode Fayemi for ensuring that the rule of law reigns supreme over petty partisan politics. “Despite the fact that the suspended chairmen and councillors are not elected under the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the state government of which the assembly is an arm did not witch-hunt the chairmen and councillors. The government ensured that the rule of law including the independence of the legislators was upheld,” he said. The ALGON National President said Governor Fayemi has set another example worthy of emulating by other state governors. He lauded the assembly for not being partial in the probe of the councils’ finances. “Our democracy would grow faster if we all display maturity and integrity in dealing with elected opposition members,” he said. Alabi appealed to the state governors of Oyo, Ogun, Kwara, and Imo to emulate the Ekiti government by ensuring that the suspended council chairmen and councillors are recalled.