Nigeria Info has commissioned an audio-visual broadcast station in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital. The concept, which is the latest innovation in broadcast media, was launched to further improve on spread of the radio station Head of the WAZOBIA/Cool FM/Nigeria Info station, Blessing Olomu, said it is one of the company’s strategies to improve content to attract attention, retain listenership and spread beyond the state. “You will agree that we live in an instant and content-hungry world where modern radio must compete with multiple attention-grabbing sources, to engage, maintain and grow audience or else it will gradually lose its relevance. “As pacesetters in the industry,  Nigeria info Lagos, launched the first of its kind audio-visual station in Nigeria’s radio broadcast landscape in March 2018. Today, we are officially unveiling its Port-Harcourt station to the public,” She said. On the concept, Olomu said: “Visual radio technology affords listeners the opportunity to watch their favorite local FM radio presenters in action on their computers and mobile devices. “It deploys professional, multi-camera positions and angles with high-quality effects, graphics and multiple advertisement spaces.  With visual radio,  listener can enjoy, engage in exciting content. “Listeners can equally participate in the radio station’s promotions,  polls, contests,  and interact with the show hosts and their special guests.  It affords listeners the opportunity  to catch up on programs missed and above all,  it is optimized for low data consumption.” According to her, Nigeria Info visual Radio Port Harcourt is the first of its kind in radio broadcasting in the South-South and southeast region of the country and can be viewed via social media platforms especially U-tube, Facebook and Instagram. It could also be activated on 4G television sets, she said The Info radio station first came into the nation’s media industry in Lagos in  2011 and  Rivers state in 2013. Visitors at the brief unveiling program lauded the station for always setting the pace in radio broadcasting, in content, presentation and news quality and urged them to ensure they maintain and sustain the lead.