There are friends whose hand you might want to shake. There are those whose jaws you want to punch. Whichever one, please be sure your meaning is very clear. I have drawn some conclusions about Nigerians, but I won’t tell you yet. Suffice it to say that I am surprised at the speed at which their interests change. Indeed, it has appeared that when news of a misdemeanor is broken, there is verbal uproar which lasts for a space of … ten seconds. Then the subject of the uproar changes to something else that may cause… another verbal tumult of five seconds, depending on the severity. Often, that gives way to another scandal which is greeted with a pandemonium which gives way to a verbal stampede… ad infinitum. I notice, for instance, that the subject of public discourse moved very rapidly in the last few weeks from herdsmen killers and kidnappers (uproar) through to RUGA settlements (pandemonium) through to ministerial list (grumblings) through to ministerial portfolios (loud talk). Like I said, all the public condemnation, rejection, approbation, disinterest, come-on-do-it-already, interestedness and all took place within days of each other. Of course, I do notice that none of these problems have had any permanent solution, in spite of the stampede in the discourses. Indeed, most of them seem to have been pushed under the carpet. That is why our national desks are empty and our nation’s carpet is full. Right now, I understand that the screening for the ministerial list is on but my name as usual is not on it. One of these days, those drawing those lists will have to answer that million-naira question: why does my name suddenly become difficult to pronounce when things are being distributed – houses (imagine, is it true that someone has over one hundred houses?), cars (imagine, people have jeep and car farms!), EFCC trouble (imagine, some have many cases and I have none! Oh yes, it is now a status symbol!), ICC trouble, etc. Not that I mind the last two, but come on people, jeep farms?! … It’s a little like your neighbour holding a party and forgetting to invite you. Anyhow, I’m wondering if all our ruminations and discourses can solve the problems the ministers will meet on ground. Don’t think so; indeed, they are likely to increase, because we will now have to pay them ministers form our already meagre resources. The last set of ministers did not help me much. There is still little water flowing from my taps and electricity flows into my house for only a few hours in the day, some days. In short, I’m really feeling abandoned… Anyway, that is not the subject of our discourse today. Today, we want to talk about friendship, because when the country abandons you, it is only your friends who stay. Let me show you the many times that I feel abandoned. I feel it when I am stopped on the road and harassed by uniformed men for having my papers complete and the president is nowhere to be found to save me from his men! I feel it when my pot is empty and the housekeeping money lies forlorn on my palm not able to get anywhere in the market on account of inflation. I feel abandoned when the children’s mouths are yawning at me threatening to swallow me up since no ‘swallows’ are entering in. I tell you, I feel most abandoned when the electricity bill comes and I find I have been asked to pay for what I have not consumed or water bill asking me to pay for the dry taps. At such times, I moan at the stars, ‘why, O why, Nigeria?’ That is what friends are for: for you to offload your frustrations on. Everyone needs a friend: individuals, groups, nations, countries, even planets, especially earth. Someone said friends are rare and enemies are many. Maybe, but you know what they say, when you got a lemon, make yourself the sweetest lemonade ever. You got to learn to make the best of whatever friend you got. As individuals, we all need to share those ohs and ahs moments with others. When the roses break out in bloom, the baby says his first word or takes his first step in life or in school or in whatever, you want someone to share them with. True, such moments appear to be fewer than the other type; still, when they occur, they come as magic moments that need more than a pair of eyes to record them. They need a friend’s eye to help interpret them. Most of all, when the enemy strikes, it is better to have a friend with one, and just pray that friend does not turn out to be the enemy. Groups need all the friends they can get. They need friends for the jolly moments, and to increase and cement those moments. They need friends to prevent them from being proscribed, annihilated, swallowed up and kaboomed. I know my group is in danger of annihilation. Actually I belong to several groups – suffering housewives, neglected teachers, misunderstood writers … should I go on? We’re not counting terrorist ‘people’ though. Those are not groups; they are just a bunch of people in need of deep knowledge. We other groups all need help with the cooker, the chalk and the pen. That last group certainly needs help to make the pen mightier than the AK49. Nations and countries like Nigeria need help with their internal matters – promoting their trade, securing their citizens, prospering them and generally increasing their happiness quotient at least, if not their intelligence quotient. No country can stand alone. Just ask America. Presumably the strongest country right now, yet America always makes sure other smaller countries have her back in times of stress such as the gulf war times, war against terror or any war. At such times, such nations call their friends allies. Me, I call my friends, friends. To be sure, planet Earth needs friends. Just see what her enemies are doing to her now: depleting the ozone layer, heating her up and generally causing mayhem in her oceans and land. See how people are filling the grounds with other people’s blood … Seriously, earth needs a friend in you and I right now. Naturally, just as we have good friends so we also have baaaaaad friends. Some even come in sheep’s clothing, but ultimately, you always know the wolves unless your eyes are closed all the time or you make that friend over Facebook. Don’t get me wrong. Many ‘friendings’ on facebook are good and legitimate. Mine, whenever I have had the few odd few minutes to scroll through Facebook, I have been amazed at the joy people take in showing off their latest clothes and postures and advancements to their friends, i.e., people who have accepted to be their ‘friend’, whether known or unknown. I know I have ‘friends’ there that I have never met. Worse, many a young one have also been deceived and carried away into one real or internet slavery or the other. In other words, not everyone who says he/she is your friend is your friend. You may be better off being the friend of the friend of the friend of the friend of your friend … So, we all need friends because they are the people we can ambush at any unholy time to bend over backwards for us. As we celebrate the International Friendship Day on July 30, take time to celebrate all your friends. There are friends whose hand you might want to shake. There are those whose mouths you want to punch. Whichever one, please be sure your meaning is very clear. Hey, if you want to shake my hand as your number one hundredth friend, please don’t let me stop you. Happy friendship day.