A firm, Brains and Hammers Limited, has held the groundbreaking ceremony for the development of a three hectare private estate behind the NICON Town in Etiosa Local Government Area of Lagos State. The estate is in partnership with the cooperative society of International Oil Companies (IOCs), particularly Shell and Mobil. The initiative will produce 117 housing units in 24 months, from the day of the ground breaking. The estate will comprise four types of accommodation — three, four bedroom flats all ensuite with boys’ quarters; four semi-detached duplex all ensuite with boys’ quarters. The last category The King’s House, comprises five bedrooms, penthouse, a study, boys’ quarters and a guest house. The Director of  Sales for Brains and Hammers, Mr. Omo Osobase, said the firm was aware of the interest rate and its implication in getting mortgage in the country. It therefore opted to explore the concept of cooperative society for its funding model. For instance, he argued that this model ensures that the cooperative members stand to enjoy cheaper loans compared to the usual 23 percent interest rate from financial institutions and also get very attractive discount from the developer since  they buy in volume. This model, he further explained, remains one of the firm’s strategies, which it strongly believe could help address the ever increasing housing deficit in Nigeria. For this reason, he added, the firm decided to work in tandem with the vision of Shell East Staff Investment Cooperative Society to provide affordable and decent housing for their members. “This is our first push with a Cooperative society. We hope to deepen this relationship, hopefully create a working models for cooperative societies.  This is our contributory drive to ensure cooperative societies are able to harness their housing potentials in providing affordable housing for its members,” Osobase said. He said the company is eager to make a success of the Shell East Staff Investment Cooperative Society “Coopeast Resort Estate” to entrench its tradition of excellence in quality and affordable housing delivery. “It is a partnership that is very promising and we want to use this medium to reach other cooperatives .We are very hopeful that this will lead to a new era of advancement in housing infrastructure across Nigeria,” Osobase hoped. Coopeast Shell Cooperative President, Hyginus Onuegbu, said the project, which is already oversubscribed, would cost N7.5 billion in its first phase; the phase 2 will bring the total cost of the project to N15 billion. He indicated that it is first signature project for the cooperative in partnership with ExxonMobil (EMCOOP). The cooperative will be extending its total investment portfolio in real estate in Lagos within the next five years to N50 billion. Onuegbu, who said the group wanted to be part of the Lagos economic growth story, listed some of the group’s investments to include  the Lekki One Estate, to be commenced next month, the Oil and Gas City to be located in Ogudu and the completed Orange Island in Lekki. Stressing that the cooperative is coming big in Lagos because of its location and potential for quick returns on investment and urged the state to accord them of the necessary opportunities to thrive. Also, the chairman of EMCOOP, Mr Shola Sofolahan, expressed gratitude that the project is kicking off after some lags, stressing that a tripartite agreement will be drawn among the partners to ensure that the project is delivered in a record time. Similarly, the Chairman, Brains and Hammers, Mr. Adebola Sheidu, noted that the impact of absence of long term funding, coupled with high interest rate on the real estate sector in Nigeria, has been a great disservice to the sector. This is the reason that his firm has adopted a subscriber based approach to deliver its projects despite the challenges. According to him, the firm has delivered over 4000 houses in less than 10 years of its operation in Nigeria with 90 per cent of them sold off plan because it ensured there are subscribers for the project to bridge the financial challenge gap.