Ondo State’s political leaders are now working with the police to fish out alleged cattle herders that claimed to be members of a vigilance group in Ondo even as the matter has raised the state’s political tempo, reports Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan Ondo State is preparing for its next governorship election billed to take place next year. In Akure, the state capital and other towns of the southwestern state, the usual signs of political campaigns are rearing their heads as contenders and pretenders get ready to mount the daises and seek the votes of the people of the state. As a result, for every occurrence, statements and or developments in the state today, there are ready-made political meanings and motives. This explains the controversy currently trailing last weekend’s allegations that an association of herdsmen may have formed vigilance groups across the state to man the highways. Trouble started after human rights activist and politician, Barrister Ajulo, in a post on his social media page, claimed he saw members of a Fulani Vigilance Group mounting the checkpoints along the highway within the state, while traveling from Akoko in Ondo State to Abuja. “I was in Akure, Ondo State, from Friday, 19 July, 2019 to Sunday, 22 July, 2019 for my mother’s investiture as the Iya-Ijo (chief matron) of our home church, Christ Anglican Church, Oke-Ifira-Akoko, Ondo State. On my way back to Abuja on the 22 day of July, 2019, in the company of some security men, we saw two men at the highway around Akoko, Ondo State, carrying Dane guns. “On sighting them, inquiry was made as to their duty on the highway with guns in their hands, being not uniformed men. They responded that they were members of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Vigilance Group whose operation is known to all the security apparatus in the area,” he explained. An identity card of an alleged member of armed herdsmen, found at a spot in Akoko, was displayed by the lawyer on his social media pages. According to the identity card, the holder is a member of the Ikare-Akoko branch of the Miyetti Allah Association. OUTRAGE Ajulo’s revelation, which is now being vociferously faulted by the Ondo State Government as untrue, drew condemnation and concern from many Nigerians who wondered why armed herdsmen could have the audacity to mount security check points on the highways without the knowledge of indigenes of such states. Not a few warned about the security implications of such development, lampooning the Governor Rotimi Akeredolu administration of failing in its duty of protecting the people of the sunshine state. Leading numerous other groups and individuals to express concern over the development while urging the government of Ondo State and the police to promptly see to the correction of the abnormality, if indeed it is true that vigilance groups peopled by foreigners are now manning the highways in Ondo, Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland and the National Coordinator of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Gani Adams, warned that his group and many other self-determination groups within the region and other Yoruba speaking parts of the country, would not tolerate herdsmen vigilantes. “We will not accept the use of herdsmen either for private or public security in the region. We are not threatening. It is not our style. Any member of the OPC that threatens is not a genuine member. But we are saying this is our position on the matter. A Yoruba man cannot wake up in the North to do this. There is no single Yoruba in CJTF in Maiduguri, Borno State. OPC will not tolerate the existence of herdsmen vigilantes anywhere in Yorubaland and we are asking that anything of such must be stopped wherever it is happening. The Police and the government in Ondo State must act promptly,” he said. NOT THE TRUTH But the government of the state denied claims by some groups and individuals that it had purportedly formed an armed vigilante group peopled by members of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, accusing those behind the stories of premeditated mischief. In a statement signed by Donald Ojogo, the state’s Commissioner for Information and Orientation, the government said Governor Rotimi Akeredolu was swift in his reaction to the development. “Not only did he disown the move, if at all, he indeed, ordered the Police to effect the arrest of anyone or group which parades itself as Fulani Vigilante.” The release further read; “The Ondo State Government has witnessed with utmost dismay, an orchestrated campaign in respect of the above subject matter. The intention of the sponsors and their echoers is undoubtedly, to discredit the administration of Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, SAN and ostensibly, incite the people against the Ondo State Government. It is pertinent to recall that upon the circulation of the story in the social media about the purported formation of an armed vigilante group by the Miyetti Allah, Governor Akeredolu was swift in his reaction to the development. Not only did he disown the move, if at all; he indeed, ordered the Police to effect the arrest of anyone or group which parades itself as Fulani Vigilante. The Governor’s postion was decisive even as it was pointedly consequential. At the risk of repeating himself, Governor Akeredolu reaffirmed the position of government on Tuesday, July 23 when he was accosted by reporters who sought further information on the matter. “The leadership of the Miyetti Allah in the State has equally disowned the report and has even provided further insights into actionable steps to deal with whoever conducts self in a manner that do not conform with the position of Government. Succinctly therefore, the scheming media spins on the issue can only be the handiwork of divisive elements and their collaborators whose defeated desire is to demarket the Ondo State Government through unfounded claims and gross mischief. The position of Governor Akeredolu on this matter stands. Government will not allow armed Fulani Vigilante in any part of Ondo State.” And when asked to comment on the raging controversy, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Segun Ajiboye, said “there is nothing in all these allegations other than mischief. Both the governor and Miyyeti Allah have made it very clear that no Vigilance Group was formed here for or by Herdsmen.” Similarly, the Ondo State Chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) Mallam Gabar Garba, insisted that no herdsmen vigilante group has been formed anywhere in the state. “These are unfounded rumours. It cannot be substantiated. There was never a time the Miyetti Allah members in Ondo State came together to form a vigilante group. We wouldn’t do anything without carrying the police along. We are working with the state government to fish out the bad eggs among herdsmen. These criminals are not our members,” the Miyetti Allah leader said. ALL HANDS ON DECK To allay the fears of the public and prove that the alleged vigilance group, if in existence, does not have the backing of government, the Ondo State Government and the Police Command say all hands are now on deck to prevent any breach of security in the state. Police spokesperson, Femi Joseph, said the Police Command was not aware of any vigilante group patrolling the highways in the state. “Some local vigilantes are working with the Divisional Police Officers, DPOs, in different divisions in the state to stamp out criminal activities in the state but not Fulani herdsmen vigilante group. The command had been on the lookout for the said Fulani herdsmen posing as a vigilante group. “Policemen in various divisions across the 18 local government areas of the state had been working with vigilante groups in various communities but not with Fulani herdsmen and none of the members of the vigilante groups carried arms. We know we are in the area that community policing is being emphasized. What we encouraged our DPOs (Divisional Police Officers) to do is to synergize with the host communities. Now that we have heard a story of Fulani vigilantes carrying arms and identity cards, the command has begun an investigation into that. If anybody is caught violating the rules, such persons will be brought to book,” he said. The Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) urged both the government and the Police to promptly look into the reports and ensure that nothing of such is allowed to happen anywhere in the state. According to Col. Dansaaki Agbede, the group’s President, the development is embarrassing and worrisome. “It is unimaginable how strangers would have the effrontery to form a vigilante group without the consent of the owners of the house. We believe it cannot be true. Can any Yoruba group form a local security group in far north like Sokoto or Kano? I don’t know how they got to the position of forming a vigilante group and even having an identity card in a land where they are visitors,” he lamented.