ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. As we open the 2019-2023 cycle of political life, governance puts on the armour of pomp and power, burying dirty secrets inside robes and unquestioningly adopt questionable traditions of ‘bowing to parliament’ and the ‘wait-for-me, perpetually late, syndrome’, ‘assume names’, ‘DEH’ Distinguished, Excellent, Honourable-names they mostly do not live up to – and also ‘change friends’. Yet we are surprised when they become political monsters and bite us with draconic laws and ‘Demand Notices’ for outlandish ‘heart stopping’ bills beyond greed. The courts have intervened in too few political excesses like the Ikeja lawyers/Ambode case and ‘The Political Pension Corruption Scam’. But stopping a stupid ‘anti-people law’ without an indicting judicial statement and a punishing multimillion naira fine against the guilty government is not justice. It encourages criminal politics. We demand punishment and fines for the politician as governor, LGA chairman or commissioner or minister for ‘attempting to criminally extort-a 419 scam’ such ‘extortion’ or ‘intimidation’ or  ‘threatening the citizenry’  or ‘threatening to steal citizen’s property’ or ‘threatening the peace’ or ‘causing grievous mental harm’ to citizens. Social and political science departments should calculate the cost of production of a politician. This should be done in moral, monetary and social areas – elections, election-days business losses from closure from work-free days, posters and billboards and other advertising, INEC costs, voting cost to voters, violence, injury, death, and even bribes. They should also calculate the productivity – most citizens think the political greed and poor productivity is unjustifiable. Certainly politicians almost never ask for our advice.  We are suddenly the enemy. Most politicians once born again at an election become a new, ugly species in a new self-centred arrogant group. They become mini-gods, treated like royalty. We are to stand up on their entry and lie down as they trample over us and drive siren-blaring in their blacked out, covered number plated convoys as we run the gauntlet of cane, koboboko, gun butt or bullet to our bodies heads, mirrors or windscreen. Do the politicians and their appointees have any ‘real idea’ of why they are in political authority? Much of our daily frustration is caused by a failed profligate politics too costly to maintain and complemented by greedy civil service and contractor classes. And now we are to add post-political office self-awarded stupendous pensions to the budgets. Are we stupid or what when many pensions are not paid to millions and governors have largely misused huge Paris Club refunds? I was one of the first set of special marshals of FRSC. So when I see draconian uniforms, bullying and extorting citizens especially vehicles with women and children, I am upset. LASTMA, yes, do your job but uniforms are no gods and no saints. They need supervision. Citizens often need guidance and advice and are not prey. Give warnings. Government’s first Highway Code responsibility is to signpost roads and the second is citizen’s responsibility to practice the Highway Code. ‘Bold Highway Code Road Signage’ is key. Lagos is very unfriendly as it has too many long segments of dual carriageway with no overhead bridges or turn arounds for many kilometres, crammed narrow lanes of vehicles for several kilometres before relief and no emergency exit. The BRT lane needs redesign and relocation to the feeder road on Ikorodu Road and removal of the concrete lane divide to free the main Ikorodu Road. Ambode started re-doing roads well. Sanwoolu can continue. The Ojota exit from the expressway needs Lagos State/FG resurfacing and redesign and relocation of the petrol station and redesign the Phillips ‘Ease Of Doing Business’ access to Maryland, Lagos. Is this government going to eliminate ingrained corruption in our uniformed officials nationwide? Can this government do it? Yes. Will it? Probably not, but we live in hope. To eliminate ‘uniform’ corruption tricks, uniformed and other workers need good pay for work, good conditions of service and eagle eyed honest internal supervision. I have witnessed uniforms covering ‘One way’ signs with cloth to lure citizens or ordering citizens to enter the yellow zone and then walking away for another uniform to come and make an arrest. It is unrealistic for fines to be more than one month’s minimum wage. Elsewhere, fines are 1-2 days minimum wage like fines of £65-80 on Oxford Street, London. Catching two LASTMA men for extortion is good but a subsequent prosecution and exemplary prison sentence of 10 years is better by Lagos State prosecutor for ‘bringing the state into disrepute’ and for trying to ‘419’ citizens. Victims of uniform corruption need an association and should sue and be compensated, N100,000-500,000, for each case of ‘unlawful physical contact’, ‘Mental assault causing anguish and loss of earnings’. Some road-users just make mistakes. In Ibadan for eight years OYASMA pounced without a single ‘No Parking’ sign or carpark citywide, making thousands of N25,000 arrests without warning, complicating the ‘Ease Of Doing Business’ and reducing IGR because businesses were inaccessible. Let LASTMA and all Nigeria’s ‘uniforms’ be well ‘preventively supervised’ by EFCC and ICPC, NGOs and social studies departments in Lagos State. What is the public perception of LASTMA and other uniforms? An Independent Anti-Corruption Database and Weekly Corruption Report would help EFCC and ICPC and supervisors. Nigerians will not tolerate a 2019-2023 suffering from unsupervised uniforms.