Nigeria midfielder John Ogu and media personality Shina Okeleji are set to grace Footballers Connect 2.0, themed: “The Heart of a Winner”, NationSport reports. The conference, scheduled to take place at the Finicky Event Center,  Jibowu, Lagos on Saturday, 27th July, 2019, comes at the back of a successful maiden edition and is expected to host 400 aspiring footballers alongside football administrators/stakeholders at all levels. Ogu was part of the Super Eagles side that claimed bronze medals at the recently concluded 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. The midfielder, after enduring a tough introduction to football in Europe, attained cult status in Israel, where he was crucial to Hapoel Beer Sheva’s dominance for several years. During his time at the club, the Camels lifted three back-to-back Israeli Premier League title among other honours and the player would be giving insights as to how he overcame adversity to becoming a serial winner. With the dire need for a player’s career to be shone in positive lights, BBC ace journalist, Okeleji brings to the platform his experience in the media – that spans almost two decades – to enlighten the aspiring footballers about relationship with the press. Making a return to the conference’s panel is Taribo West, the ex-Nigeria international who lit up Footballers Connect’s maiden edition whilst sharing untold stories of his unpleasant escapades in Europe. This edition would see him balance the narrative with what made him a standout in every situation. The organiser, Haysports, fresh off partnering with the Lagos State Football Association would have the body’s chairman – who also doubles as the Nigeria Football Federation 1st Vice President, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi as one of the Keynote speakers. Ayodele Thomas, Chairman, Football Intermediaries Association of Nigeria and Beverley Amaka-Agbakoba ACIArb (UK), Head of Sports, Entertainment and Tech Law Practice at Olisa Agbakoba Legal wrap up the star-studded lineup and both would open up discussions regarding football agency and players trafficking, an important segment to keep the potentials ever conscious of the “sharks, lions, elephants, snakes, crocodiles and other beasts” – in Mr. West’s words – in the industry. The conference themed “Heart of a Winner” was designed to help young Nigerian footballers with details that would enable them to thrive in the sport, Hay Sports said in a statement.