Barring any last-minute changes, the House of Representatives is set to re-present the Proceed of Crime Bill this week. The bill was one of the 17 bills recently returned by President Muhammadu Buhari without assented. Though no explanation was given for the refusal to assent to the bill, as was the usual practice by the President, The Nation learnt that it was because of a contentious Proceeds of Crime Management Agency (PCMA) inserted into the bill. Our reporter also learnt that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practises and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the police, among others, were all against the bill because of the agency. According to a source at the Presidency, thos who opposed the bill did so because they believed it has taken away most or their powers. But House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, knowing the importance of the bill in the fight against corruption in the country, has set up a team to take another look at it with a view to resolving the contentious aspects and possibly re-present it this week. The team is to consult widely and factor in the opinions of all stakeholders before coming up with an acceptable bill. But sources claimed the confusion is whether or not the PCMA should be a stand-alone agency with its own operational laws and funding, or to leave it within an omnibus Proceeds of Crime law usable by all anti-graft agencies. The source added: “They will now simply educate the contending anti-graft organisations and others to allay their fears that the agency is simply to manage the property from proceeds of crime and nothing else.” The agency, The Nation learnt, will manage over 2,000 seized landed property, apart from ships, yachts, several cars in various car-dumps across the country, and even foreign property. The Proceed of Crime Bill was passed in the House of Representatives in 2018 but a disagreement between the House and Senate on which version to adopt and transmit delayed its onward movement for assent. The Senate’s version was eventually transmitted after the House rescinded its own version on the floor. But it was learnt that assent was refused because it was discovered that some vital parts of the EFCC, ICPC and other agencies’ laws have been deleted and incorporated into the PCMA in the bill. 