The Chairman and Executives of Oyo State chapter of the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN), Dr. Dapo Adeniyi, has said the association will use this year’s health forum to tackle fake drugs. He said this was part of the effort to arrest the circulation and sales of fake drugs in Nigeria. Addressing the executives of the association at The NMA House, Total Garden, Ibadan, Dr. Adeniyi said: “Doctors in Oyo State will use their annual health forum to work with pharmaceutical companies as a professional way of stemming the tide of fake and adulterated drugs in the country.” AGPMPN is the umbrella body of owners of private hospitals in Nigeria. Its Oyo State chapter will hold its 2019 health forum from July 30 to August 2 at NMA secretariat, Total Garden, Ibadan. A statement by its spokesman Ayodeji Oshodi said: “To ascertain effectiveness of stopping the menace of fake drugs, we are inviting pharmaceutical companies that manufacture, import as well as market drugs in Nigeria. “Through the exhibition of drugs, clinical presentations and sales to retailers, many of who are members of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria, it becomes easier for doctors to assess the quality of drugs in the country. Doctors and retailers, who are experts in various fields, will attend the forum from all the six states of the Southwest – Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ekiti, Ondo and Oyo (hosting) – will participate in the four-day health forum.” The statement added that the forum will be used as a platform for Continuing Medical Education (CME), where senior consultants from various medical fields will provide specialised training sessions for medical students and doctors. The planned CME, it said, will help to consolidate the knowledge and skills of doctors and pharmacists. According to the statement, lectures, seminars and scientific sessions, which hinge on a wide range of medical skills, including pharmacology, family health, ophthalmology, mental health, cancer and other varying ailments, will be covered. 