Traveling for Nigerians increasingly requires adequate planning. With Nigerian passport ranking 83rd in freedom to travel across the world, acquiring a visa is always difficult and strenuous. However there are visa-free countries accessible to all Nigerian passport holders. With just a valid passport, you can gain entry into these African countries without having to stress yourself over a visa. Some may, however be required to apply for a visa at their point of entry. ·       Rwanda:  Easily the neatest African country, Rwanda has become a destination choice for investors and tourists. After the 1994 genocide war, the East African nation is wearing a new look. It is also a secured nation with less than five percent national crime rate. Visa is obtained at entry point with just $100 for Nigerian passport holders. ·        Djibouti In East Africa, one of the best places to visit from Nigeria is Djibouti.  You may require a visa on arrival at an affordable rate, but the country still has beautiful places to visit such as the Lake Assal, which is the lowest point on land in Africa. In the world, it is only the third after the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea. ·        Morocco: The culture, weather and exotic offering of Morocco make the country a great destination for honeymooners. There are super-amazing sites, shops, restaurants, cafes and more around the streets of Morocco which could definitely tempt you to turn your honeymoon into a typical excursion you will not regret. ·        Cape Verde: This is an island country that is found on the West African coast. It is one of the most welcoming tourist destinations on the continent as it has a great weather and beautiful spots that you could have a splendid vacation. ·       Kenya: This beautiful tourist destination has a lot of wild life, safari and historical places on offer. Cities to explore include Nairobi and Mombassa with the hosts generally welcoming and helpful. Visa is also at the point of entry. ·       Uganda: This East African nation with rich historical cuisine and sites such as the Lake Victoria and others allow Nigerians to travel to obtain visa at the point of entry. ·       Sudan: Nigerians can get visas at entry point to visit the massive deserts and wild life conservations in this hugely vast country.