Landmark University Chancellor Dr. David Oyedepo has again raised the fear of food insecurity in Africa, saying it is the ‘greatest threat to the continent’s survival. The cleric fears that the menace, if not checked, could wipe off a whole generation. Dr Oyedepo challenged Africans to learn to engage in intensive agricultural endeavours if they must survive in the face of impending global food crisis. The cleric insists that Africa, especially Nigeria, has no excuse to suffer  food insufficiency with the available abundant arable land and resources. Dr Oyedepo spoke during the university’s sixth convocation at Omu-Aran, Kwara State. The theme was:Release of pathfinders, Royal Set of 2019. According to him, food security is a major global concern as over a billion people are suffering from starvation, hunger and malnutrition. “There is no substitute for food as far as human substance is concerned; there is no software for addressing food challenges,” he began. “No matter the state of the economy of any nation, the last thing to remove from the budget is food, food security is not an ideology but a necessity. “There is nothing that challenges human dignity like lack of food, with the massive arable land to us as a nation, hunger is obviously an insult in our intelligence.” The Presiding Bishop of the Living Faith Church, noted that the need for the institution to address these anomalies informed the Landmark’s introduction of agripreneurship,an entrepreneurial-driven programme, as well as toward total graduate (TTG) concept, meant to infuse values in graduates. He said Landmark is very much committed to a new approach to leading an agrarian revolution through the consciousness of farming since mankind acknowledges the indispensability of food. Oyedepo continued: “The number one purpose for setting up Landmark University is to help young people see the treasure hidden in the mother earth through agripreneurship and other incentives. “Our university life-coach programme, compulsory for all final year undergraduate students are designed to provide pathways to a life of meaning, fulfilment and out-of-this-world order of accomplishments.” He expressed the urgency to repackage the continent’s education system to align with best global standard that seeks solutions to their peculiar challenges, arguing that a good and formidable formal education system must be a departure from knowledge to empowerment. “It (education) must be a departure from figure to future-building, a departure from points to facts, a departure from mathematics to life-matics and a departure from legalism to realism.’’ Keynote speaker and former Secretary-General of African Development Bank (AfDB) Ms Cecilia Akintomide, urged the graduands to be “very focused and research oriented’’. In her lecture titled: You only get one shot, she said: “You have to stay focused, research-oriented and informed. You have to be bold, audacious and you must be ready to take well-calculated risks. “Have covenant with God in getting a different relationship, He will guide and propel the rest of your life,” she counselled. Vice-Chancellor Prof Adeniyi Olayanju attributed the institution’s achievements to spiritual support and continuous investment in ultra-modern facilitiesa. “We are unrelenting in advancing the frontiers of research activities that would, among others, boost agricultural value chain. “This, we hope, will engender the much needed food sufficiency in our continent,” he said. The Olomu of Omu-Aran, Oba AbdulraheemAdeoti, praised the Chancellor and the management for putting the name of the community and Igbomina region in global limelight. Fifty-one First Class graduates led 381 others. The 2018, 2019 set comprised 182 female and 250 males. Interestingly, four of the 26 First Class female graduands, were overall best from the four colleges of the university.