Come August 7th scholars and writers, will gather in Akure, under the auspices of Fagunwa Study Group, for a four-day conference in honour of Professor Wole Soyinka and D. O Fagunwa, two prominent writers who have enriched world literary values via their works. Edozie Udeze reports The Fagunwa Study Group is set to do it again.  This time around the group is set to have its second international conference.  The conference, like the first one which held in 2013, will also take place in Akure, the Ondo State capital.  Starting from August 7th to 11th the conference which will centre mostly on the Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka in relation to his 85th birthday anniversary, will have its theme as Wole Soyinka: Wole Soyinka, D. O. Fagunwa and the Yoruba Artistic Heritage. Addressing the press on the core essence of the group and why they have chosen to honour Soyinka this time around, Professor Tunde Babawale said “Yes, the conference is conceived as part of the 85th birthday anniversary of Professor Wole Soyinka, Africa’s first winner of the Nobel Prize of Literature.  In this instance, the programme is partly being sponsored by the Ondo State government headed by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN).  This time around, all the papers to be delivered will concentrate on Wole Soyinka and Fagunwa basically on their contributions to the growth of Africa and Yoruba literary values and cultures and tradition”. Babawale, a former director general of the Centre for Black and African Arts and Civilization (CBAAC) and also chairman of the local organizing committee of the conference stated that members of the study group both home and abroad will be in attendance to give total credence to the subject-matters.  “We want to make it clear that the study group is to promote Yoruba culture and heritage.  It is made up of intellectuals, committed scholars, who use their resources to ensure that what the Yoruba race stands for and those who have done well to stimulate those elements of values are celebrated.  In this wise Soyinka is prominent; he has used his works to project and prosper Yoruba cultural heritages”. To the group, the name of D. O Fagunwa is important.  He began the history of writing; he documented and published works about the Yoruba culture.  His books came as pacesetters, paving the way for other literary collections and narratives that followed.  “As a pacesetter”, Babawale further noted with an unbridled nostalgia, “we see him also as the pioneer of our literature.  He is a forerunner, very vast and deep in his usage of Yoruba idioms, proverbs and wise sayings.  He promoted Yoruba language.  The time therefore to celebrate Soyinka is now.  It is also a mark of respect, honour and recognition.  It is to show that he is one of the foremost projectors of African literature.  When he translated D. O. Fagunwa’s Forest of a Thousand Demons into English, in 1968, he equally used his literary prowess to entrench the relevance of this pioneer writer in the history of the race.” The conference will have papers on all aspects of Soyinka’s literary exploits.  Scholars will not forget to dwell also on the need to promote and preserve the indigenous language of the people.  Fagunwa was a progenitor in this regard.  Some aspects of the papers will focus on Fagunwa as a way of constantly reminding the people about his role in local literary narratives. Babawale did not mince words when he said “the proposed theme of the conference has been motivated by the fact that Soyinka and Fagunwa represent two of the foremost figures in twentieth – century Nigerian and African literary history.  Indeed the two writers work in different primary languages, but prominent features of their imaginations, sourced deep in the Yoruba artistic heritage and then elsewhere cross one another in many profoundly stimulating ways.  Together and in the context of the expansive cultural and literary traditions they draw from, their work allows us to critically juxtapose interactively, explore key elements of modern African sensibilities and consciousness”. Consciously, the Fagunwa Study Group is a body of scholars, academics, intellectuals, mainly of Yoruba stock totally committed to organizing regular scholarly activities which include conferences, seminars, workshops, debates, roundtables and lectures on Yoruba cultural, literary and educational issues. In this regard, Kunle Ajibade, a member of the group who was present at the briefing said; “participants are assured of their security.  We will all be provided with adequate security.  Part of the programme will be a banquet to be hosted by the Ondo State government. People will be escorted to the venue in Akure which is the Dome in the state capital.  It will indeed be a massive intellectual outing involving some of the best scholars in Yoruba land”. In his own contribution, Professor Wumi Raji of OAU noted that of all the scholars who will be attending from outside Nigeria, Tejumola Olaniyan, the convener of the conference will give a deeper scholarly insight into both writers.  He said, “of course, Olaniyan is a Professor of English and Wole Soyinka professor of Humanities at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA.  He is the one in the forefront of this conference and the conference convener”, he concluded. Among dignitaries expected at the conference are Professor Wole Soyinka himself, members of D. O. Fagunwa’s immediate family, governors of all the states in the South West, Professor Olaniyi Yai, former Benin Republic’s permanent representative at the United Nations. The keynote speakers are Adeleke Adeeko, Professor of English at the Ohio State University, Columbia, USA, and Moradewun Adejumobi, Professor of African Studies at the University of California at Davis.