Death keeps devising means of ensnaring and snapping up Nigerians. It has become ubiquitous, almost inescapable, with all, men and women, boys and girls, now literally walking in the valley of the shadow of death. When it does not come in the guise of a kidnapper, it is as a terrorist. Cultists, domestic abusers, armed robbers and careless policemen, too, are on the prowl. Last week, in Lagos, a young man was the agent of death. He patronised a popular joint, picked up a young lady who was hawking flesh; a professional who did not know ugly things could come in beautiful packages. The young man picked her up for a night stand at what appeared a good price, moved to his apartment in a good estate in the Amuwo Odofin area of the boisterous city with a disguised mission not just to devour, but hack her to death. Unknown to her, it was a journey of no return. As soon as he managed to convince a stunned estate security post that there was nothing untoward in coming to his abode in the dead of the night, holding hands, he hauled his victim into his apartment, attempted to shut out screams that could attract attention of neighbours and then visited the most cruel, painful death on the young commercial sex hawker: he hacked her down; butchered her as a dexterous cow butcher would at an abattoir, but then he ran out of luck as he attempted to sneak out of the estate, apparently in a bid to invite his partners-in-crime to finish off the dastardly assignment. Neighbours who managed to pick up some noise alerted the security, forced him back to the house where they were confronted with the gory sight of not just a corpse, but pieces of a young woman who had, minutes earlier, appeared full of zest and life, calculating what she would do with the extra cash from the expedition. The police have since taken up the matter to ascertain the motives, partners and, possibly, improve on methods of crime detection, prevention and investigation. We urge them to conduct thorough investigation that would not only bring out all the facts of the matter, but ensure that justice is fully served in the case. The judiciary should also put its act together to see such cases brought to speedy conclusion. The case of Chukwuemeka Ezeugo, also known as Revd King, whose savagery was exposed in 2006 is still fresh in memory. Such cases that offend national sensibility should be speedily concluded to bring them to closure. The police have a duty to step up their monitoring task and ensuring that private security men employed by estates and individuals in cosmopolitan settings like Lagos are well trained in sniffing crime from a distance. When residents stroll in at ungodly hours, while they may not be harassed or prevented access to their homes, the securitymen should take more than passing interest in their consorts and or luggage. But for the vigilance of other residents in the instant case, the suspect might have escaped. It is also instructive that all citizens should take interest in happenings around them as security agents cannot be everywhere. Where they notice anything untoward, they should call the security agents. Ultimately, Nigerians should realise that the price to pay for safety and security is eternal vigilance. Death is cheap, and can occur anywhere. It should be realised that both the society and government have failed the youth, many of whom have thus been pushed into drug peddling, violent crimes, prostitution and kidnapping. The family and other agencies of socialisation have abandoned their roles for filthy lucre and this is taking a toll on social health. The task of freeing, saving and building the country is for all.