British Council Child Justice Consultant Dr Willy Mamah explains the role of the newly inaugurated Child’s Rights Implementation Committees. JOSEPH JIBUEZE reports. The British Council, as part of its Rule of Law and Anti-Coruption (ROLAC) programme, has set up Child’s Rights Implementation Committees in Lagos. It is the first in Nigeria, and was done in collaboration with the Lagos State’s Ministries of Youth, Social Development and Community Affairs. The committees were inaugurated in five pilot local government areas: Agege, Alimosho, Ikorudu, Surulere and Shomolu. The Committees were tasked with driving the implementation of the Lagos Child’s Rights Law (CRL) from their local areas as stipulated in Section 252 of the law,  to end violence against children. The lead British Council Child Justice Consultant for the project, Dr Willy Mamah, noted that the law was inspired by the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989) and the follow-up domestication instrument in Nigeria – the Child Rights Act (2003). “It is the most imaginative, most collaborative and most forward-looking piece of development law to be enacted in this country in the past 100 years,” he said. According to him, the Child’s Rights Law tackles the roots of powerlessness in a power-saturated country. In his views, the law departs radically from pre-existing conceptual framework of over-protection, which viewed children as “appendages” of adults. The law, he explained, rather recognises the “personhood of the child”, requiring that children be treated as human persons, equal in rights and dignities with adults. Illustrating what he considers a significant movement in the conceptual framework of child rights,  Mamah called attention to the overriding principles of the 1989 UN Convention, the African Charter on Rights and Welfare of the Child (adopted by OAU in 1990 and came into force in 1999), the Child Rights Act (2003), and the CRL of Lagos State (2007) as amended in (2015). The overriding principles in all of them, he said, include non-discrimination (under which discrimination against children on the basis of sex or circumstances of birth has been outlawed), that the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration in all matters affecting children, and the right of the child to life, survival and development. Other overriding principles include the right of the child to be heard, the right to be treated in accordance with their dignity and worth, and the prohibition against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Mamah said in addition to the principles, the CRL identifies the need for multi-disciplinary collaboration in tackling social problems, providing systems that cut across the legal and social spectrum, as illustrated in the leading role assigned the youth ministry, the composition of the Family Court and the use of Social Inquiry Reports, among others. He explained that the notion of parens patria in the law, which allows the state to step in as parents of children, is quite innovative with high capacity to promote child development. He referred to its “therapeutic jurisprudence” (philosophy of care), which he said, underlies the law’s criminal and civil justice. Problems to solve Mamah said the CRL, like other great laws, suffers from inadequate structures for implementation. “Despite the innovative nature of the Child’s Rights Law of Lagos State, the reality that we confront everyday is the increase of heart-breaking cases of physical, emotional and sexual violence against ‘children’ defined in the interpretation Section 261 of the law as ‘persons under 18’. “The situation in Lagos State is reflective in varying degrees of the situation in the whole of the country, raising the question, what is the essence of a great law with great provisions that end up not being implemented?” Mamah asked. Such laws, in the consultant’s view, do not qualify as ‘laws’ as they continue to exist in the realm of conjectures. On the poor level of implementation and consequent impunity, Mamah cited a recent Violence against Children Survey, a collaborative study of National Population Commission, UNICEF and US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. It found that six of every 10 children would suffer one form of violence before 18. The consultant called attention to the growing spate of physical abuse, incest and sexual violence against children in Lagos. “What the social realities tell us is that there is impunity with regard to Child’s Rights Law. “Twelve years after the passage of innovative Child Rights Law of Lagos State, budgeting for its implementation, at best, remains epileptic and meagre. “Many people, including key operators of the law, continue to lack knowledge of this law and act as if it does not exist at all,” he said. ‘What can we do?’ Mamah said the question of what can be done led to the inauguration of the Local Government Child’s Rights Implementation Committees. “Laws cannot implement themselves. Structures are needed to give meaning to the wordings of the law. “The Child’s Rights Law envisioned a multi-stakeholder approach to implementation, hence Section 247 provides for state Child’s Rights Implementation Committee, which is already functional in Lagos, unlike many other states. “The gap in Lagos was at the Local Government Areas, where families with children live. “Following the inauguration of the committees in five pilot Local Government Areas, the gaps have begun to be filled,” he said. Mamah said committee members would need to be supported by government and international donor agencies to be able to discharge their roles as laid out in Section 252 of the law. “It is also important that these committees be replicated across all the Local Government Areas in Lagos State. “Continuous training of committee members on the law and child protection systems/processes would also be critical to success,” Mamah said. According to him, protecting children’s rights is crucial to development. “No country or state can be said to be developed if it does not prioritise the interests of children who carry the genetic codes of what it truly means to be human; to advance, to become. “The Local Government Child’s Rights Committees are critical in driving the implementation of this laudable law at the local level, close to families and homes. “It is hoped that with the inauguration of the local committees, Lagos State would maintain its leading place not only as a centre of excellence for economic growth in Nigeria but as place of distinction in child protection and human development,” Mamah added.