As the battle rage over the proposed RUGA settlements, it is interesting to note that the father of faith, Abraham owned herds, and back then there were clashes over grazing rights. According to the book of Genesis 13:7, “there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram’s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot’s livestock.” Why? Verse six says: “Now the land was not able to support them, that they might dwell together, for their possession was so great that they could not dwell together.” At the bottom of the herdsmen-farmers’ clashes that have led to inter-ethnic crisis in the country is access to land. To solve the problem between him and Lot, Abram proposed in verse eight: “Please let there be no strife between you and me, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are brethren.” He went on: “Please separate from me. If you take the left, then I will go to the right; or if you go to the right, then I will go to the left.” While our farmers and herdsmen may not have the luxury of going their separate ways as Abram and Lot did, there is no doubt that unless there is a change of tact, history may record the Buhari presidency as a tenure of crisis. That would be very unfortunate, and a huge set-back for the country, considering the hope that Buhari can reclaim the country from the buccaneers masquerading as political leaders. Of note, a country severely blighted by overwhelming corrupt practices and humiliating poverty, cannot survive a severe inter-ethnic crisis. So, the proposed RUGA settlement should  be explained to the nation, and as one of the opponents of the programme demanded on Channels Television broadcast, the scheme should be open to all and sundry, and also incorporate other animals, apart from cattle. Those who really love President Buhari and who wish history to be kind to him, must tell him that his opponents have cast an ethnic slur on his integrity, and the RUGA settlement has been painted as an ethnic agenda, which must be resisted. The effort to keep the participating states under rap is an effort in futility, as you cannot hide a pregnancy. What is required is transparency, openness and information. There is need to explain what the federal government intends to achieve, apart from just saying it is a way to stop farmers-herdsmen clashes. Also, who can participate and how can any Nigerian willing to meet the set standard, sign up to the programme? If it is made an exclusive programme for the Fulani-herdsmen as is speculated, then the proponents must perish the thought, unless they don’t care what happens to our dear country. Clearly, the opponents of the programme believe it is an agenda to establish Fulani settlements across the states, and eventually extend the Fulani Empire. While this column considers such accusation an outlandish possibility in the 21st century, there is no need for the Buhari presidency to keep feeding the fire that could burn down the country. Indeed, many consider this writer naïve, when discussing the so-called Fulani agenda. Each time one tries to push the argument that the Buhari presidency should be encouraged to fight corruption, which in my humble view is the greatest scourge of our time, the counter argument is that it is an ethnic agenda that is masquerading as a fight against corruption. To stem all the noise about an ethnic agenda, the Buhari presidency could rejig the headship of the security agencies, one of the offered examples of the ethnic agenda. There is no doubt that Buhari’s presidency inherited a messed-up country, from those who could not differentiate private properties from public properties. But while stealing public property was the scourge of the past regime, I enjoin the Buhari presidency not to give armour to those who argue that he wants to replace that with a more potent scourge of inter-ethnic crisis, which can bring the country to its knees in a matter of days. So, the challenge before the Buhari’s presidency is, how can the herdsmen be separated from the farmers in such a fair-way that peace will return to our country? The president should act like Abram, who offered a fair deal to Lot. Abram proposed a fair, transparent and equal opportunity to his brethren. He gave him a choice, between going left or right. He didn’t go to survey the place, choose the better side and give the second option to Lot, whom the Bible recorded was following him. Apparently, Abram didn’t abuse or take advantage of his leadership position, rather he surrendered the first choice to his follower, who the Bible recorded made an informed choice of what he considered the better part. But after Lot left him, the Bible recorded that God blessed Abram and granted him more success than when he was with Lot. So, President Buhari being a Fulani should tread with caution, so as not to give the impression that he is giving preferential treatment to his brethren. One of the audacious legacies I thought President Buhari would have pursued vigorously is how to reclaim the desert areas of the north. Indeed, he should use his moral authority to galvanise international capital to restore the Lake Chad and greenery across the Sahel region of our country. That would be a more peaceful way to provide pasture for the herdsmen, and stem their southward movement in search of pasture for their cattle. Of course, another is the cattle ranching programme, so as to stem the nomadic life-style of the Bororo Fulani herdsmen. The other legacy our dear president should pursue is to disarm those who possess arms unlawfully across the country, whether Fulani or Kalabari or Ijaw or Igbo or Yoruba or Hausa or Edo or Itsekiri or Nupe or whoever. The potent of herdsmen hankering around with AK47 rifles, represent an omen of herdsmen as evil. It is a weapon in the hands of those who see the potential of an ethnic game plan to overwhelm the rest of the country, with ‘a command from the proposed dedicated radio that will broadcast only in Fulani’. Those who are close to the president should urge him to stop giving weapons to his opponents to convince Nigerians that there is an agenda to hoist evil-herdsmen on the rest of Nigeria. This RUGA programme may just be one such weapon. Any of his lieutenants who say to him that he can use our national resources to set up a successful programme across the country that would benefit only one ethnic group is lying to him. The chances are that they will just misappropriate the money for the RUGA settlement, and create one baleful legacy for the Buhari presidency.