The factional Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu has expressed shock over his suspension by the National Working Committee(NWC) of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP). The PDP NWC, after a meeting on Friday to review issues surrounding the Minority Leadership of the House of Representatives, suspended Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, Hon. Wole Oke, Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu, Hon. Anayo Edwin, Hon. Gideon Gwadi, Hon. Toby Okechukwu and Hon. Adekoya Abdul-Majid. According to the PDP, the roles played by the suspended members “resulted in the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, reading another list for Minority Leadership of the House other than the list submitted to him by our party, the PDP.” Elemelu, in his reaction, described the action as “unfortunate.” He said: “It’s unfortunate if the party suspends its most loyal Member for towing the path of honour and Constitutionalism.
I owe my Party and it’s Leaders a duty of care to advise appropriately as one the Ranking Members of the House. I have discharged that duty. “I advised My Party Leaders appropriately about our House Rules provisions about nomination of our Leadership
That PDP alone can’t do it without other 8 Political Parties “On Speakership, PDP had no candidate.I follow my conscience, I follow what my Constituents clamoured for . I followed practices and Conventions. “I am surprised and shocked, that the National Working Committee of our great party, the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) can sit and take a decision without giving room for fair hearing. “I lost an aunty and left Abuja immediately after plenary in the House of Representatives on Thursday and travelled to Delta state. Though I left immediately after sitting not midnight. Secondly, my gate man received the letter at 7.45pm and he called me at 8pm. “I was informed by my gate man who received the letter from the party at 7.45pm and called me at 8 pm. I tried to reach out to the other members named in the letter to see if they could be at the meeting and found out they were also out of town. ” Out of respect for the party, I interacted my Special Assistant to write to the party and request a new date. I would have expected that if the date we suggested was not convenient for the party, they would have proposed another day when we could have appeared before them. I have great respect for the party and am ready to serve.” On his own part, Hon. Woke Oke in a statement on the issue said: ” I owe my Party and it’s Leaders a duty of care to advise appropriately as one the Ranking Members of the House. I have discharged that duty. “I advised My Party Leaders appropriately about our House Rules provisions about nomination of our Leadership
That PDP alone can’t do it without other 8 Political Parties. “On Speakership, PDP had no candidate. I follow my conscience, I follow what my Constituents clamoured for . I followed practices and Conventions” Calls to the phone numbers of the other affected PDP members went unanswered.