Hundreds of stakeholders at the weekend marched the streets of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State and called on the Cross River Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Dr. Frankland Briyal, to join the November 16 governorship race. The stakeholders under the auspices of the Bayelsa Grassroots Development Initiative (BDGI) were led in the solidarity march, which started from Tombia to Alamieyeisegha road, by Prof. Emiemokumo, Augustine-Neto Adakaigbe, Tamaranebi M. Richard and Gilbert Inesei. Inesei, who read the group’s communique after the march, appealed to Briyal to return to his state as a matter of urgency and contest the election. Inesei assured the REC that their group was spread across the eight local government areas in Bayelsa and would help him mobilise to win the election. He said after the general meeting of the BDGI all members of the group unanimously agreed that Briyal possessed the requisite knowledge, experience, education and achievements to govern Bayelsa. Inesei said: “The caucus and indeed the entire members of the BDGI resolved to support a candidate fresh and new, who we believe can deliver, irrespective of where he comes from, to vie for the governorship race as all Bayelsans are united in their quest for a governor, with proven integrity and capacity. “Having taken time and studied a highly detribalised technocrat, seasoned administrator and retired career military officer with an impeccable character and pedigree, we have come to recognize that the man Dr. Frankland Oyins Briyai, has what it takes to move Bayelsa state to the next level, beyond the mundane issue of zoning and party sentiment. “Dr Frankland Oyins Briyaihas been unanimously chosen across the state and we encourage him to honour the request of BDGIand join the governorship race”. Inesei noted that the group acknowledged Briyai’s acumen in the management of electoral activities in the country saying he was given an award as one of the best RECs in the last general elections. He said their call on Briyal to join the governorship race was based on his his pragmatic leadership and management style, which according to them would bring about a better and glorious Bayelsa. He appealed to Bayelsa residents to support the call on Briyal to join the race in the interest of peace and security of the state. He said: “We call and encourage all Bayelsa people at home and in the diaspora to work in tendem with BDGI in electing God-fearing and credible successor of the present governor. We believe that Dr Frankland Oyins Briyai will be a worthy successor. “We commend Dr. Frankland Oyins Briyai for his outstanding achievements in human capital development. He has touched lives and changed the fortunes and mentality of many youths “Wth respect to Dr. Frankland Oyins Briyai’s generosity, his outstanding administrative and military pedigree and performance, and the resultant accolades from Bayelsans and Nigeria at larg, we hereby unequivocally endorse and once again call on him to publicly to pube of his acceptance to run for the guber race 2019. “We are in total support and applaud the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari in his next level agenda. We pray that God will give him and his team the grace and wisdom to continue leading Nigeria towards a great heights”.