THE Southwest Zone of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) has called on the federal and state governments to review the pension scheme in an effort to make life better for its members. They made the call at the weekend during the NUP Southwest Zonal Council meeting in Lagos. Chairman of the NUP Southwest Zone/ State Chairman, Ekiti State Council, Elder Ayo Kumapayi, noted that the last review of pensioners in Nigeria was due in 2015, saying this is 2019 and another review will be due soon. He noted that Section 208 of the constitution says that pension would be reviewed every five years or whenever workers’ wages are reviewed (whichever comes earlier), saying that the government has failed to implement that aspect of the constitution. “This has caused a disparity between pensioners retiring now and those that have retired years ago, despite that they served the same number of years. The difference is as much as over 200 per cent. This is why we have pensioners who have been earning N2000 for the past 15 years and are still earning the same, just because the government has failed to follow the constitution to review the pensions.” “Government should wake up to take care of the health of the elderly citizens because a country that takes care of its elderly is always succeeding, but the otherwise nation will suffer. Pensioners are not entitled to anything in this country,”Kumapayi said. “In some other countries, elderly citizens have several benefits, including free transportation and free health care. But in Nigeria, pensioners once 60 are automatically banned from the NHIS Insurance Scheme, which means they have to fend for themselves for their medical bills, which should not be so. The state and federal governments should look into taking care of the elderly,” he said. He urged government to provide a geriatric centre for the elderly, saying government should help pension unions to set up such centres, at least one in every state. The centre, he said, will contain clinics and relaxation centres; where they can view films and have gym for fitness; where they can be counselled, and have people to talk to.