The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Movement (PDM) Frank Igwebuike, the National Secretary,  Abubakar Gwada, its candidate in the last presidential election, Aminchi Habu and some other senior members of the party have disagreed on whether or not to prosecute the petition they filed against President Buhari and two others. While Igwebuike and some party leaders want the petition withdrawn on the grounds that it has a slim chance of succeeding, Aminchi, Gwada and some other members of the party’s the National Working Committee (NWC) are insisting on going on with the case. In the petition filed in the name of PDM and Habu, the petitioners want the tribunal to void the February 23, 2019 presidential election on the grounds that they were wrongful excluded from the poll by INEC. Listed as respondents are INEC, Buhari and the All Progressives Congress. In furtherance of his position, Igwebuike filed a motion, which he argued among others, that his party has re-evaluated the probability of the petition succeeding and decided to withdraw from it. Igbebuike said the motion was informed by a March 5, 2019 letter allegedly written by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), acknowledging the list of candidates’ the party submitted for the 2019 general elections but informing the party that “the period of submission of candidates has passed”. In a supporting affidavit, Igwebuike, stated that the party’s decision to seek to be excluded from further prosecution of the petition was informed by the best overall interest of the party and the country. He said: “The 2nd petitioner/applicant in its wisdom re-evaluated the probability of the petition succeeding and decided to withdraw from the motion in view of the correspondent of INEC to the 2nd petitioner dated March 5, 2019 and the said correspondent is hereby shown to me and marked Exhibit B. “The 2nd petitioner has resolved and decided to forgo whatever cause of action that necessitated the filing of the petition. In view of the decision of the 2nd petitioner/applicant there is no need to agitate the present petition.” He added that his party “did not reach any agreement, political gains or otherwise compromise with any of the respondents (INEC, Buhari and APC) to this petition or any other person or party for the withdrawal of the 2nd petitioner/applicant in this petition.” According to him, “no undertaking or agreement has been entered into with any of the respondents, person or party acting for or at their instance for the withdrawal of the 2nd petitioner in this petition”. Igwebuike his party’s decision to withdraw “is voluntary and without any duress of influence and in the best interest of the party and the nation.” In a counter-affidavit, Gwada faulted Igwebuike’s position and insisted that the PDM was still interested in prosecuting the petition. He argued that a decision to exclude PDM from this petition could only be taken by either the party’s National Executive Committee or the National Working Committee. Gwada, who urged the tribunal to dismiss the motion by Igwebuike, claimed that he (Igwebuike) was acting alone and did not possess the party’s authority to filed the motion and depose to the supporting affidavit. He claimed to have the authority of, not the party, but its presidential candidate, Habu, who he said, was the party’s National Financial Secretary. Gwada said his position on the issue was also sanctioned by the party’s National Executive Committee and the National Working Committee. The party’s National Secretary added that neither of the party’s NEC and the NWC has met or deliberated on any issue relating to the withdrawal of the party from the petition since it was filed. “As the National Secretary of the 2nd petitioner (PDM), I oversee the party secretariat and have the responsibility of convening the meetings of the national organs of the party mentioned above and to keep the minutes of such meetings and decisions reached thereat. “The deponent of the affidavit in support of the instant application is acting alone without the authority of the national decision-making organs of the 2nd petitioner (PDM) which are the National Executive Committee of the party or the National Working Committee.” On the March 5, 2019 letter relied on by Igwebuike, Gwada said the letter “purporting to have emanated from the 1st respondent (INEC) to the 2nd petitioner (PDM), could not have been a basis for withdrawing the 2nd petitioner from the extant petition, as the letter purportedly written on March 5, 2019” When the petition was mentioned on Wednesday two lawyers announced appearances for the petitioners. While Aliyu Lemu said he was representing both petitioners, Morrison Onunun, who filed the motion, in respect of which supporting affidavit Igwebuike deposed to,said he appeared for the party. Also, while Habu stood up to said he was appearing as representative of both petitioners, Igwebuike said he was the party’s representative. Upon a request by Onunun for time to respond to the counter- affidavit filed against his motion, Chairman of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal (PEPT), Justice Garba adjourned till July 18 for the hearing of the motion and the continuation of the pre-hearing session in respect of the petition. Lawyers to the respondents – Yunus Usman (SAN), for INEC, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), for Buhari, and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), for the APC, said they do not intend to respond to the motion because it was on PDM’s internal affair. On Wednesday, the tribunal elected to reserve ruling on an application by the Hope Democratic Party and its presidential candidate, Albert Owuru, in which they seek permission to amend their petition, a request the respondents have objected to. The tribunal also adjourned till July 18, further pre-hearing session in the petition.