Oil and gas firm Lekoil has said value appreciation for shareholders will be the core of its operational strategy this year. Its CEO, Olalekan Akinyanmi, said in a note that accompanied its 2018 financial report, that the priority is also to grow production at its Otakikpo through Phase Two development (subject to funding) to reach gross volumes of between 15,000 and 20,000 barrels per day (bpd). “The first step has already occurred, with 3D seismic data acquisition and interpretation now completed. This  year  should, therefore, provide key catalysts for value appreciation for shareholders as we move forward in building a leading Africa-focused exploration and production business,” he said. Lekoil was founded in 2010 by a group of leading professionals with extensive experience in the international upstream oil and gas industry as well as in global fund management and investment banking.Working with partners, government and regulatory agencies, the company has sustained production levels and continues an aggressive investment campaign which is projected to result in increased production and profitability in the short to medium term. “We also continue to advance toward the start of the appraisal drilling programme on Ogo in OPL 310.  We will work with our joint venture partner, Optimum to negotiate agreements that will allow us to make progress on the block, after securing all relevant regulatory extensions and approvals,’ Akinyanmi said. Apart from its interests in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 310, the company and its partners finalised Technical Evaluation on Oil Production Lease (OPL) 325 in January last year. Its consultants, Lumina, identified and reported on 11 prospects and leads which were estimated to contain potential gross aggregate Oil-in-Place volumes of over 5,700 mmbbls (un-risked, Best Estimate case). After finalising terms for a Production Sharing Contract (PSC) on the block, Lekoil intends to farm-down a portion of its 62 per cent working interest following a detailed prospect/lead risking study.