The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has faulted the appointment of a former Vice Chancellor of Kwara State University (KWASU), Prof Abdulrasheed Na’allah, as Vice Chancellor of University of Abuja (UNIABUJA) by President Muhammadu Buhari. The union said appointing Na’allah, who was allegedly indicted by a visitation panel, would make a mockery of the government’s fight against corruption. In a statement jointly signed by its University of Ibadan (UI) Chairman, Prof Deji Omole, and the Ibadan Zonal Coordinator, Dr Ade Adejumo, the union recalled that Na’allah had been indicted by the visitation panel under former Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed. The union said the visitation panel’s report of 2016 indicted Na’Allah of financial recklessness, maladministration and abuse of due process as entrenched in the university’s laws. The duo stated that while the tenure of Abdulrasheed Na’Allah lapses at Kwara State University on 27th of July, he has since resumed in University of Abuja has Vice Chancellor. The statement said: “A government that claims to be fighting corruption is protecting people alleged for corruption and compensating them with appointment. Example is the case of KWASU Vice Chancellor, who was indicted by the visitation panel set up by former Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed’s administration. The White Paper recommendations were not implemented; they were suppressed by politicians. Now, the government of President Buhari has appointed the same person as the Vice Chancellor of University of Abuja. He has even resumed while his tenure is yet to lapse in KWASU, thereby occupying two vice chancellorship seats.” Crow at Dawn, which I used to watch while growing up. “I was moved by a sense of nostalgia and concern when I read of his medical situation recently and decided to take over his medical bills. He has been visited and arrangements are being made to support him. “In other climes, the likes of Sadiq Daba and other such actors who, more or less, paved the way for the entertainment industry and the Nollywood industry in Nigeria (which is touted as the third largest movie industry in the world) would be celebrated as icons and due recognition would be accorded to them. “For me, taking care of Sadiq’s medical expenses is my little way of showing appreciation and gratitude for the good memories he created for me and others in the past.”