STEVEN: I am a retired teacher from Ifako International School. I was receiving pension of N24,684.76, but since 2003 nothing has been given to me. My NPF no is ANNONYMOUS. I will be happy if you can help and ensure that the money is paid. I also worked at Barachel Model College. PTAD: The pensioner was called several times, but no response. He is advised to send his complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. ALICE: My name is Alice. Well-done and thanks for your concern on pensioners’ matters. My pensioner number is Annonymous. I have done verification since August 2017, but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist, several pensioners have been paid their pension. I am a state pensioner with Federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been investigated. She will receive payment as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. JOSHUA: My name is Joshua. I retired as a Seargent on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment is January 20, 1986 and date of retirement is March 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I have no money, help me  tell pension boss that she should pay my pension. I am helplessly living a hard life. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been reviewed by the operations department. He will be paid as funds are allocated and released by the Federal Government. SUNDAY: I retired in June 2003 from the service of former governmet agency changed to National Clearing and Forwarding Agency. I received my pension from March 2008 to April 2018. But they stopped my pension after April and I don’t know why. Please help me. PTAD: If Mr Eshiet has been verified we advise that he sends a clearly scanned copy of his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. If he has not been verified, he can visit our Abuja or Lagos office with his employment documents, BVN and original stamped bank statement from April 2018 till date to be verified and monthly pension payment will resume if eligible. MRS  ONIYE:  My Name is Mrs. Oniye. I retired from Federal Government College, Idoani, Ondo State in April,1999 as Grade 2 Typist, G.L 5 Step 10. My gratuity was paid on June 7, 2007. I have not been paid any monthly pension. Please see to my problem by helping me to contact the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) on non-payment of my monthly pension since 1999. PTAD: The pensioner is advised to send her complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Her telephone number as provided is not reachable. BENJAMIN: I am Benjamin, I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension of January and March 2015 were omitted. I went to PTAD for five times and did all I was told to do, but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no fund’ Please intervene for me. PTAD: The pensioner is required to submit his bank statement from July 2014 to date to PTAD Office Abuja, including his complaint to enable us investigate and resolve his complaint. ISA: Good evening Madam, this is from one of the Pre 1996 Railway pensioners in Nasarawa State. My name is Isa. Our 18 months arrears (part of 52 months) since the time of former President Goodluck Jonathan is yet to be cleared. Also, railway pensioners are the least paid nationwide. Kindly use your good office to help and solve our problems. We “THANK YOU” for being there for US. PTAD: It is an assumed liability by some group of pensioners in the NRC. The group is yet to forward any supporting documents.