Ogun State government has earmarked 40,000 hectares of land for farmers to boost food production, ensure food security and make the state food basket of the nation. Governor Dapo Abiodun disclosed this at the first Interactive Session with farmers in Ogun State in Abeokuta. He said the 40,000 would given out in order of one hectare per farmer to cultivate and engage in all season farming. The interactive session was attended by the representatives of rice, cassava, maize, fish, cattle and poultry farmers led by the Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Ogun State chapter, Prince Segun Dasaolu. Abiodun added  his administration apart from providing focused and qualitative leadership that would encourage Public Private Partnership, also place priority on agriculture as one of its enablers to ensure that the State produces enough food to feed its people, neighbouring states and other countries. The Governor also disclosed that an American company has indicated interest to partner with the State by providing improved maize seedlings and off – taking of the produce upon harvest, stressing that  the Central Bank of Nigeria has also expressed readiness to support the State in its Agricultural development drive. He noted that  the State was strategically located with large arable land suitable for planting rice, maize, cassava and other food and cash crops, saying that rural roads would be rehabilitated to ease movement  of farm produce, while Security Trust Fund would be relaunch to provide efficient security coverage to the people. Abiodun commended fish farmers for being a model to their counterparts in other states, adding that the interaction session was to chart a way forward on how best to develop agriculture in the State. IPermanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs. Abosede Ogunleye, said the state has the highest concentration of poultry farm insurance in the country, calling on farmers to key into the Agricultural agenda of the government as the present administration was ready to support them The Chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria, Prince Segun Dasaolu, pleaded with the government to assist farmers in capacity building, revitalization of the Farmer’s market at Ogere by providing security, electricity and motorable roads for effective use of the facilities.