It can be really difficult to determine the difference between someone who is genuinely nice and someone who is faking.  * They’re quick to show off Being proud of your hard-earned accomplishments is one thing but showing off all of the time is a clear sign of a fake person. Genuine people are humble and most of the time, uninterested in constant bragging. *They’re only nice if there’s something in it for them A surefire sign of a fake person is one who only shows kindness when it benefits them. Genuine people are nice and helpful no matter the circumstances. * They only respect those in positions of power When it comes to respect, most would agree that everyone is deserving of this sentiment. Yet, fake people have a tendency to solely respect people in power. Watch out for people who aren’t respectful of everyone around them. If not, they may be faking it. *They are only around when it’s convenient for them You might never hear from that friend on the street again until they need something from you. They might call and ask you for a favour. They hardly go the extra mile for people. *They pretend not to be upset about things Anyone who says they never get mad or angry at anything or anyone is full of it. Of course, everyone gets mad at something. Fake people are deep under covers. Their plan is to make people think they are something they are not. Come on now, everyone gets mad sometimes. *They put in extreme effort to build relationships While genuine people don’t have to put in extreme efforts to grow their circle of friends, fake people may try hard to earn the affection of others. Friendship and other kinds of relationships come naturally to those who are truly interested *They seek attention It’s okay to crave the spotlight every now and then, however, one sign of fake people is that they constantly seek attention. In comparison, an authentic person likely knows when to let others shine. *They gossip While a quick gossip session can be tempting from time to time, it’s one activity that can help you spot fake people. Honest people are more willing to openly share their opinions while fake people may keep their comments limited to a whisper. *They put others down to look good Only those who lack real merits feel the need to criticize others to keep up appearances. Sincere individuals would rather admire and compliment others, while fakers may be quick to put others down in name of making themselves look better. * They make promises they can’t keep A genuine person will do their best to live up to promises and commitments but a fake person may talk the talk without walking the walk. Fake people easily make commitments but rarely follow through on them.  