Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) has thrown its weight behind Waziri Bulama to emerge national secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The position of National Secretary of the party, zoned to the north east, has been vacant since the former occupant Mai Mala Buni resigned to contest the governorship election in Yobe state. With Buni as Yobe Governor of Yobe state and Senate President Ahmed Lawan coming from the same state, there are arguments that the position of secretary be given to or any other state in the zone. The North east geopolitical zone is made up of Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, Taraba, Bauchi and Gombe states. BSO, which is the umbrella body of all support organisations working for Buhari since 2014, endorsed Bulama for the job at the end of its meeting in Abuja attracted all the state coordinator. The Nation gathered apart from the BSO, Arc Bulama who hails Borno State has gotten the support of party members from all the states under the umbrella of Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), even though party chieftains from Yobe and Taraba States have shown interest in the position. It was also gathered that Buluma, who served as Deputy Director General (Coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) has also received the support of the Borno State Governor, Zulumu and some other chieftains from the North East for the APC National Secretary position. In a statement in Abuja, the Forum of State Coordinators of Buhari Support Organisations (BSO), said they would continue to support Buhari and the policies that would promote APC as a party. The statement reads in part: “The meeting deliberated extensively on how to ensure successful future for the organization with continued and unalloyed support/loyalty for the President and the APC government. “One of the fundamental decisions adopted at the meeting was to support wholeheartedly the aspiration of Arc. Waziri Bulama as the National Secretary of the APC.” The statement said further the BSO National Chairman, Dr. Mahmud Abubakar spoke in glowing terms of the sterling qualities of Bulama and all the coordinators adopted him as the sole candidate of the group. However, one of the leaders of the party from the north east who would not want to be named told The Nation that it would be wrong to give the position of National Secretary to Yobe when they already have the Senate President. “We are all from the north east. We have given Yobe the Senate President. The National Secretary should come from another state in the region. “Don’t forget, Senator Francis Alimikhena from Edo state wanted to be Deputy Senate President. “We all argued that since the National Chairman is from Edo state, it would be wrong to give them Deputy Senate President. “That was why the man stepped aside in the name of equity and fairness and Omo-Agege became Deputy Senate President. “That same equity and fairness should apply now in deciding the National Secretary. Anybody from Yobe state eyeing the position of National Secretary should honourably step down and allow Borno to produce the candidate”.