To educate the public on space activities, the National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA)-Centre for Basic Space Science, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), has joined its counterparts across the world to observe the World Asteroid Day. With the theme: Asteroid: Its potential danger and benefits to the earth, the lecture, the third edition of the annual event at the centre, was in collaboration with the International Astronomical Union.  The event was designed to analyse the implications and the benefits of asteroid to the universe, while also helping researchers to be well informed of its implications. At CBSS Observatory Complex, venue of the event, Head of Planetary Dvision of the Centre Dr Emeka Onyeumaoma, noted that the lecture which was not limited to a particular group, was not meant to create fear in people’s mind, but alert the public about the natural phenomenon. Director of the centre Dr Bonaventure… declared the lecture open. He said: “Asteroid is a crucial researched work that is important for the Nigeria Space Agency to create adequate awareness for the public based on its dangers and potential to the universe. Similarly, Okere explained how scientists in the centre stressed to get the sample of asteroid that fell in some parts of the country like Sokoto, Benue and Taraba states between 2010 and 2013 of which the researchers paid the villagers huge amount in naira before they could release them, because of their ignorance about it. “Some of them have started worshiping these ‘meteorite” claiming that it was their gods,” he added. Okere continued: “In the past researched work, not much value was given to asteroid, currently many countries are extracting gold from it base on their understanding about it. Nigeria, as a country with its population growth can as well do better through its Space Research Agency.” Delivering the 2019 Asteroid lecture, by Mr Emeka Eze of the planetary division of the Centre, canvassed more attention to indigenous scientific and manpower development which he described as tools that would enhance national growth and technology improvement. Emeka, noted that without adequate research, problem plaguing the Nigerian society would not be sufficiently addressed. He nonetheless, urged participants to utilise the knowledge gathered during the lecture in solving various challenges facing their organisations. The annual, celebrated every June 30 , focuses mainly on science of asteroids and the possible threat they pose to the earth.