 THIS year marks 20 years of unbroken  democracy in Nigeria. However,  many analysts have been quick to point out that what obtains is mere civil rule,  as opposed to military rule of the past. One dominant feature I have found,  which has been sold to the populace willy- nilly and which comes under the fancy nomenclature of “Dividends of Democracy” ; is this confounded roads construction of ours. For 20 years now we have been inundated with ‘before and after ‘ shots of roads built by ‘performing’ governors, while those supposedly slacking in office have left roads undone. Is it only the construction of roads that constitutes governance? Mercifully,  some of our governors are saying no to that rudimentary template. They are the set of chief executives who have taken a critical look at the pressing, growing problems of the populace and are tackling them with great sense of urgency. It is shocking to find that 4 months after elections,  a lot of governors are yet to form government; there is no cabinet or executive council in place, and no move in that direction. More surprising,  it is the second term governors who are mostly guilty of this.  After they must have already ‘known’ everybody and consulted with everyone,  they are the ones in position to hit the ground running.  Rather,  they are the ones not even ‘on ground ‘- they are still abroad on extended holidays; still in election victory mood. Meanwhile, serious security issues continue  to hit their state, along with unemployment. A number of them reappeared in their states for their May 29 swearing in, after which they  were not seen again, leaving the very basics of administration largely undone. I was filled with joy when I read recently of how the (first term) Governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun  had opened a portal for online recruitment in his state with the target of providing 10,000 jobs. Upon resuming office in May, Governor Abiodun had promised that he would provide jobs for the youths across his state. Four days back, he made good on that promise. Interested job -seeking Ogun indigenes who are graduates, skilled or even unskilled persons would now only need to register, and have jobs provided for them that would be suitable to their trade or academic qualification. The Ogun Governor is also engaging 10,000 farmers to be supported in mechanised farming. Each farmer gets a parcel of land, and inputs to ensure profitability of the agricultural venture. Even then, he is still assuring of road construction,  in every local government area of the state! The Sokoto State Governor,  Aminu Tambuwal constituted his cabinet in Sokoto in June. Indeed, Sokoto was simply a model northern state, with peace and tranquility as its attributes. But all  that changed last year with the coming of armed bandits. One year ago,  on July 9, armed bandits arrived Sokoto State, penetrating the centre of the Caliphate as they coursed their way through the northern states with defiance,  and increasing savagery.  One campus student at Sokoto recently had both his hands chopped off by bandits. Till date,  81 people have been reported killed in cold blood. Governor Tambuwal actually has a whole lot to deal with,  considering that Sokoto has repeatedly ranked as Nigeria’s poorest state,  with a  poverty rate of over 80%. Harsh climatic conditions  compound the situation, with a  2018 landslide resulting in multiple deaths. The Governor is grappling to deal with all that. ‘Returnee’ Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi has a place for the youths in his heart, as well as in practice. For one,  he has commenced the renovation of 3 stadiums in the state. Grassroots sports development is sure to be impacted. In addition   the Ekiti United football club has been restructured, with the salary and allowances of players and officials being scaled up. Kidnappings and killings have crept into the Ekiti landscape ,with unemployment not far from its root. Plans are underway for training   in pottery and then facilitating soft loans for,  youths in pottery and other indigenous skills. 50 graduating medical doctors in Ekiti medical schools have just been given automatic employment. Human capital development,  neglected for years nationwide,  is  also a top priority in Ekiti. While school facilities rot and students are taught under terrible conditions all across the nation, the Ekiti state government has just distributed instructional materials to public schools across the state. That’s not  surprising,  since the Governor himself is a scholar and lecturer. Mr Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has sworn in his commissioners, secretary to government and special advisers,  as well as permanent secretaries . He has gone beyond building roads, to building roads leading to hospitals, factories and industries.  Days back,  Governor Emmanuel commissioned the General Hospital , Iquita ; built 77 years ago but since left abandoned and derelict , and now a modern and functional health facility. He has also employed over 100 new nurses and 25 doctors, in addition to ongoing entrepreneurial schemes. The greatest was the one that many believed was a hoax, a big campaign lie- the establishment of the first state- owned commercial airline. Ibom Air was launched in February 2019. Everyone used to our brand of democracy assumed it was another film trick- that the planes would be returned from where they were borrowed,  after the elections. Behold today  the airline is flying,  to Lagos and Abuja. The employment value chain thus created is as  lengthy as it’s fulfilling,  with an all- Nigerian flight and cabin crew, including an Akwa Ibom indigenous pilot. For these pace setters: may they fire on as they continue to run their race. Responses: 07055547031 WhatsApp/sms Twitter @mikky_princess