Airtel Africa Plc started trading on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) with a strong enthusiasm, rallying N136.4 billion gain in the immediate hour after its shares were listed on the Exchange. Airtel Africa’s share price rose by the maximum daily allowable percentage change of 10 per cent to close yesterday at N399.30 per share. The NSE listed 3.758 billion ordinary shares of Airtel Africa on its main board at N363 per share, the offer price for the telco’s initial public offering (IPO). Airtel Africa had last week listed on the London Stock Exchange (LSE), its primary listing exchange, at 80 pence. As against the weak start on the first trading day at LSE, Airtel Africa’s dual listing on the NSE started on a positive note, with the telco leading the Nigerian market to a total gain of N1.38 trillion. Airtel Africa’s debut trading on the LSE was however weak, dropping by as much as 16 per cent during the first trading session. Airtel Africa set out with initial listing value of N1.36 trillion and closed the first day at the NSE with a market capitalisation of N1.5 trillion. Airtel Africa, a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services, is the holding company of Airtel Networks Limited (Airtel Nigeria) and 13 other subsidiaries in Africa – Airtel Congo S.A., Airtel Gabon S.A., Celtel Niger S.A., Airtel Congo RDC S.A. (DRC). Airtel Tanzania Plc, Airtel Networks Zambia Plc, Airtel Networks Kenya Limited, Airtel Tchad S.A., Airtel Madagascar S.A, Airtel Malawi Limited, Airtel Rwanda Limited, Airtel Uganda Limited and Airtel (Seychelles) Limited. Airtel Networks Limited, second largest telecommunication company in Nigeria, accounts for more than one-thirds of the group’s turnover. Under its IPO, Airtel Africa had allotted 39.23 million ordinary shares to qualified institutional investors and high net worth investors in Nigeria while 704.82 million shares were allotted to other global investors in various jurisdictions outside Nigeria. Chief Executive Officer, Airtel Africa Plc, Raghunath Mandava, said Airtel Africa was delighted to be listed on the main board of the Exchange. “This is an exciting time for Airtel Africa in the 14 countries it operates in and an important milestone in our development as a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services in Africa,” Mandava said. Speaking on the floor of the Exchange, Managing Director, Airtel Network Limited (Airtel Nigeria), Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, noted that Nigeria has been a great place for business and Airtel Africa remains committed to building a leadership position in Nigeria. “Investors have been interested to hear our story, and importantly they have been interested enough to invest in our business and are now ready to share the future with us,” Ogunsanya said. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr Oscar Onyema, noted that Airtel Africa has made history as the first telecom company to simultaneously list on both the LSE and NSE. He said the listing on the Exchange reaffirms Airtel Africa’s long-term commitment to expanding opportunities for Nigerians in addition to providing everyday services to them. “This listing serves to deepen the telecoms and technology sector for investors and provides an opportunity for a wider group of Nigerians to be part of the African telecoms growth story. This listing is a promising development in Africa with Airtel Africa being the second company to have its ordinary shares listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the Nigerian Stock Exchange,” Onyema said. He pointed out that the dual listing gives credence to the successful partnership between the LSE and NSE urging similarly situated companies to explore the different opportunities for raising capital on the NSE’s platform. “Airtel Africa’s listing on the NSE will not only showcase the company as an established player in the African telecommunication industry, but will enable the firm to actualize its strategic vision “To enrich the lives of customers”,” Onyema said. He assured that the NSE will continue to support the telecom industry and the real sector by promoting efficient capital formation and allocation, enabling industries to raise long-term funds for growth and expansion of their business to reduce unemployment and sustain Nigeria’s economic growth and development. 