Nigerians have been urged to pay attention to three key areas of leadership, sound policies and strong institutions in order for the economy and the country at large to attain its full potentials. This was the submission of a former governorship aspirant of Osun State, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi at the 2019 Distinguished Management Lecture of the Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), which took place in Lagos, on Tuesday. Speaking on the theme, “Nigeria’s Progress, Principles and the new Metrics”, Ogunbiyi said that Nigeria is not suffering from lack of ideas and policies that can sharpen the economy, as there are abundance of well-written policies visions and reform agenda, but the problem is implementation of these policies, which has made international commentators describe the country as a failing state. “Nigeria is replete with brilliant impeccable and well written policies, visions and reforms agenda. The problem is implementation. The policies, visions and agenda often end up as paper-works rubbished by insincere implementation efforts and corruption. For example launched in November 2003, the formulation and implementation NEEDS, National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategies, did not sort out our needs by 2008; its target date”, Ogunbiyi noted. Ogunbiyi, who is the Chairman, Mutual Benefit Assurance Plc, further lamented that little or no attention is given to the average Nigerian on the street. He recalled that “Dr. Oby Ezekwesili noted recently that an input variable or essential parameter for the desperately needed economic growth is Qualitative and Relevant Education. Ogunbiyi, pointed out some new metrics needed to change the narrative of the Nigerian economy, development. Some of them, he said,  include Good governance encompassing rule of law, peace and security, education and knowledge, investment and saving. On his part, the President and Chairman of Council, NIM, Professor Olukunle Iyanda called for new ways to do things for progress to be achieved. Represented by the Deputy President, Mrs. Pat Anabor, Iyanda said “For the nation to move in the right direction there is need to change the old ways of doing things. There is also need for attitudinal change and value reorientation. The interest of the nation must be put first at all times. “The task of getting the country up and running on the right path should not be left for government alone; all hands must be on deck to take Nigeria to where we all want it to be.”