Troops of the Nigerian Army on Tuesday attacked Azagbene Community in Ekeremor, Local Government Area, Bayelsa State in search of suspected militants, who ambushed and killed two soldiers. It was gathered two soldiers protecting an oil facility belonging to the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) in the community were shot dead by the hoodlums. Following intelligence the killers fled into the community, soldiers invaded Azagbene early in the morning pulling down and burning structures in the area. Sources from the community said the invasion caused commotion and forced residents to seek refuge in the bush. The Central Zone of the Ijaw Youths Council (Worldwide) condemned the unwarranted killing of soldiers but urged the army to apply caution to avoid bringing hardship to innocent members of the community. The Chairman, IYC Central Zone, Kennedy Olorogun in a statement signed by the zonal Spokesman, Korubo Kockman, appealed to the army to work in synergy with the IYC to fish out the perpetrators. Olorogun said: “The zonal leadership of Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) has condemned in strong terms the killing of two men of the Nigeria Army by unknown gunmen at the areas of Azagbene Community in Ekeremor Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. “This act is devilish and it has resulted to attack on Azagbene community by the Nigeria Army destroying properties of innocent indigenes. “This ugly development has become great source of worry and concern to the state and Ijaw Youth Council in the zone as the home and Jerusalem of the entire Ijaw Nation. “While we condemn the barbaric act, we call on the Nigeria Army to be civil in her action mostly on the areas of destruction of life and property of the innocent Azagbene people. The army should go after the culprits. “We assure the Nigeria Army to work in synergy with them and other security agencies in the state to ensure perpetrators of this violence and heinous acts are brought to justice. We also advise Ijaw youths to shun violence, criminality and other social vices that will tarnish their reputation”. When contacted, spokesman 16th Brigade, Maj. Jonah Danjuma, said the brigade would soon make its position known on the incident.