No fewer than 42 aspirants are struggling for the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State. Who becomes the flagbearer for the November 16 poll? Correspondent JAMES AZANIA examines the intra-party contest. Eyes are on the Kogi State All Progressives Congress (APC) as it prepares for the governorship primary billed for next month. No fewer than 42 aspirants are in the race. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission, the election will hold on November 16. Unlike in the ruling APC, where the mode of primary has become contentious, between those rooting for direct primary and advocates of indirect primaries, not much noise has emanated from the PDP mode of primary to be adopted. However, the frenzy and jostling for parties’ tickets has has taken off. Governor Yahaya Bello has unfolded his second term ambition. His supporters are already on the field. His rivals-Admiral Usman, Yahaya Audu, Tim Dichie, Hadiza Ibrahim- are challenging him to a duel. The primary will be tough. Bello Despite widespread vilification, Bello appears the most formidable of the lot. Not only is he presently in the saddle the Lugard House, he appears to hold the magical wand, just has he has eaten deep into the psyche of the people, to the extent that virulent criticisms hauled at his administration have not deterred him or his zeal for a second term. Bello has as his foot soldiers political appointees and the sole administrators of the 21 local government areas who are expected to deliver for him, when the time comes. His critics accuse him of non-performance, non-payment of backlog of workers’ salary, sidelining of party chieftains and other alleged infractions. But, the Ebira born governor remains a moving train that is determined not only on picking his party’s ticket, but being returned for a second term. Barring any unforseen circumstances, Bello may be the man to beat. Admiral Usman Jubril (retd). A former Chief of Naval Staff, Jubril, since his entrance into the race, has presented himself as a formidable challenger for the ticket. Hr is believed to have the backing of powerful chieftains, who see him as an alternative to Bello. During his tenure as the naval chief, he engineered the citing of the Navy Secondary School, in Okura, Kogi East, where he hails from. Jubril has not been seen selling his aspiration in Kogi, and not much of him has been seen by the people. But, his myriad of support groups and others that have endorsed him continue to swell. In one of the endorsements, Youths of Dekina/Bassa Local Government of Kogi State described him as the best man for the job. The youths in a statement by Mohammed Abdullahi, president of the Bassa/Dekina Youth Progressive Union for Good Government, said Jibril is well equipped to rescue Kogi State and restore its glory. According to them: “The liberation of our people and society has become imperative, since in place of authorities over the years could not do little or much to help salvage our lands from the status of backwardness and underdevelopment. It is on this assertion we the youth of Dekina/Bassa LG deem it necessary to support our amiable, purposeful, pragmatic, God sent leader and to ask him to contest for the position of governorship of Kogi State, come November 16, 2019. “This is in view of his immense contribution to the people and society at large. Every society or people must discover its own mission; its either betrayed or fulfilled. We believe Usman Jibril shall fulfill the desire, yearning and aspirations of our people by 2019. He is a detribalized Kogite, whose friendship and acceptability cuts across frontiers of age, sex, religion or tribe. He shall attend to the needs of our people. We therefore want to usher him as our sole candidate for the job. “We believe that he has the credentials and the experience in the management of the affairs of Kogi State, and removing from out of the woods”. Jubril stands a bright chance of getting the ticket. Prince Yahaya Audu Audu, younger brother of the late Prince Abubakar Audu, the flagbearer  in 2015, is said to have garnered the support of some political appointees in the cabinet of Governor Bello. About six commissioners and other aides of the governor are set to join Audu who aspired for Kogi East Senatorial seat during the last election. Those purportedly teeming up with him are said to have adduced the failure of the governor to pay workers and pensioners and hardship faced by some of the appointees, as some of the reason for so doing. Audu’s cannot be ignored. Tim Nda Dichie Not a few were taken by surprise when Dichie, a former member of Bello’s cabinet, resigned as Commissioner for Agriculture, when he was barely a year in office. From the minority Bassa–speaking tribe of Kogi East, Dichie is an experienced politician, philanthropist and business magnate. He was one of the aspirants during the 2015 primary. The Basange high chief who prides himself as a “symbol of unity between the majority/minority dichotomy at the moment, for the state,” has articulated his motivation for the contest. He said God has positioned him to be next governor of Kogi, and that the financial strength of other aspirants would not change God’s plan. He is seen as one of those that may spring a surprise. Sank Lulu, a former chairman of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFA), Mona Audi, Gen. Patrick Akpa (retd.) and Saidu Mohammed Ogah, from Kogi East and Hadiza Ibrahim, are other APC governorship aspirants. The main opposition PDP, ousted from power in 2015, parades no less than a dozen aspirants, including former Governor Idris Wada and Abubakar Ibrahim, son of former Governor Ibrahim Idris (Ibro) and a woman, Hajia Halimat Alfa. Others include Ibrahim Wada, Senator Dino Melaye, Dr Victor Adoji, Ameh Joe Erico, Hassan Adamu Enape, Emmanuel Omebije, Aminu Abubakar Suleiman, Mohammed Shaibu and Zakari Alfa. Of the lot, Wada appears to have more weight, but that is only on paper, as not a few lay the blame for the party’s ouster at the last election at his feet. A gentleman and silent achiever, Wada while in office allowed some of his aides to run riot, resulting in the sinking of the PDP ship in 2015, after over eight years in the saddle. Other aspirants that parade themselves, to borrow from the parlance of the pro Bello APC supporters, can at best be described as Diaspora politicians, who have lost the verve to truly challenge for the position, despite the presence of core and diehard PDP members that abound in Kogi, coupled with the watered down impact of the state party executive, which is very much unlike the days of Hassan Salawu on the saddle. It would appear a long short for the Kogi PDP to return as landlord at Lugard House, four years after departure.