SIR: The clouds are dark, if it is not Zamfara, it is Sokoto, or Katsina.  The North and the agitating Middle Belt is an emotional wreck, a perfect picture of an abused bride, which today is even afraid of a hug of reconciliation, with rehabilitation and reconstruction a far cry. A huge army of unemployed youths in the North ready and willing to be used points to the fact that there is urgent need for the revival of the northern economy and job creation. But how are we doing that, other than power flexing our birth right mentality. What and where have the billions of 17 years gone to in the North? Universities out of private initiative litter the South and up here what are we doing, joining issues with Biafra, and ranting while we should do the needful. The Southwest is chasing a semblance of regional integration; the Southeast and South-south are not left out. States have even gone ahead to show/use their emblem/insignia and are creating identities. We are still seen as herdsmen asking for reserves on other people’s lands and seeking nomadic education because we can’t do regular school. Now to the Southern Nigeria, as a whole, this is it: it is impossible to deny the reality of poverty in our world. Studies of the data on income and wealth routinely show that billions of people on the planet live with minimal access to resources. These studies demonstrate that merely the financial resources that are not available cannot measure poverty; they demonstrate how billions of people have no access to electricity, safe drinking water, education, or health care. In 1978, the United Nations’ International Labour Organisation proposed the concept of ‘basic needs’ as a way to enhance our understanding of the poverty line. The poverty line had to be defined in such a way as to take into consideration a wide range of basic human needs that are a right of every human being. It is not enough to measure poverty based on caloric intake. Calories are not a sufficient indicator of wealth – they are not even a good measure of nutrition, because they do not measure intake of fats and proteins. Nigeria is at the 11:59 border. We have gotten to that point on several occasions, we were there and the civil war broke out. Our several ethnographic-ethnoreligious conflicts have taken us there, the menace of herdsmen and farmers, bandits and politicians keep taking us closer to a sub second of the 12:00 mark. The North of Nigeria is under siege. Nigeria as a whole is at another 11:59 moment. Will men of good conscience, patriots stand up to be counted? I recall when we were kids, suicide bombings, and conflict were largely on the screen, and it was either Lebanon, Pakistan/India, Iraq and Iran, and pockets of violence around the gulf with Israel and Palestine at the heart…we would say this can never happen to us, we are resilient, we are this, we are that! Truth be told, no matter how elastic the rubber band is, it does cut with time.