SIR: Monday’s clash between the Islamic Movement of Nigeria – the Shiites and the Nigerian Police conjure up a mental image of theater of war barely two weeks after the sect’s protest turned violent at the National Assembly complex also in Abuja. The Shiites’ agitation was not unexpected. Since December 2015 that Ibraheem El-Zakzaky has been in detention for alleged murder among other accusations, his followers have not relented in their efforts to get him released. Obviously, if what Shiites described as peaceful protest will be so regarded, there wouldn’t have been reports of violence that day. From all accounts, the Shiites threw petrol bombs as part of the protest. What this implies is that Shiite phenomenon is assuming a more dangerous dimension with relentless efforts of members of the sect to secure the release of their leader. Of the casualties recorded during Monday’s protest, the most devastating was the death of Precious Owolabi, the 23-year old youth corps member serving with Channels TV. The death of this promising young journalist is a reminder of gory tales of how many brilliant journalists had lost their lives in the course of performing their professional duties. With the circumstance of this sudden and untimely death of Precious Owolabi, public attention is once again being drawn to the reality that journalism could be hazardous and adventurous. It is high time the federal government took decisive action to curtail the violent agitation by By nature, character and activities of the Islamic sect, no serious government should take their threats as empty noise. I am sure that President Muhammed Buhari with his military background understand the psychology of the militants that they would not mind sacrificing their lives in the course of struggle. This is part of the reasons why Boko Haram survives till now. It won’t be in our nation’s best interest for the government to allow Shiites crisis to escalate or become another deadly terrorist group like Boko Haram. If care is not taken, Shiites crisis will become additional headache for the country already suffering from unending ethnic conflicts, economic crisis and insecurity challenges. The government needs a more intelligent approach and proactive strategy to curtail the excesses of the sect. Another  worrisome angle to the whole scenario was the killing of DSP Usman Umar Belel during the so-called peaceful protest staged by the Shiites. With the death toll after Mondays’ mayhem and cost implication of NEMA equipment set ablaze and number of police officers on danger list, one is tempted to believe the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba’s press statement that the protesters were fully armed and engaged in indiscriminate attack on innocent citizens and police officers. Whatever reasons exist for holding the IMN leader, the best strategy to ensure his release for now is through judicial process. This is likely to be more fruitful than persistent agitations and wanton killing of innocent citizens by the Shiites.