Over 80,000 Nigerians die of malaria-related sicknesses annually, it was learnt. The implication is that every hour, nine persons die of malaria in Nigeria. This is as it was also learnt that the country records 53 million cases of malaria annually, representing 25 per cent of the global malaria burden. Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected female Anopheles mosquitoes. It is preventable and curable. According to the latest World malaria report, released in November 2018, there were 219 million cases of malaria in 2017, up from 217 million cases in 2016. The estimated number of malaria deaths stood at 435 000 in 2017, a similar number to the previous year. Finance has, however, limited the country’s effort at dealing with malaria as the country continues to record more death despite all the forms of vector control including treated net. The head of programme, Management of National Malaria Elimination Programme (NMEP), Mr. Aro Afolabi, who disclosed this during a media chat in Abuja, noted that Nigeria will need a total of $108,237,465 to bridge the gap for 2019 to 2020. He disclosed this at a media chart organised by NMEP of the Federal Ministry of Health, with the theme: “Bridging the resources gap for malaria elimination,” held in Abuja. Mr. Afolabi, who was represented by Mr. Timothy Obot, said Nigeria records 53 million cases of malaria annually and accounts for 25 per cent of the global malaria burden. According to him, implications of unfilled gaps are risks of increased malaria morbidity and mortality; the threat of a weakened workshops with decreased productivity with consequences on development; danger of economic losses following years of investment; loss of confidence in public health programmes; and inability to use existing facilities to ensure sustainability of services beyond the tenure of donor funding. He further stated that Nigeria alone accounts for 53 per cent of the $1.3billion funding gap for essential commodities that include 76 per cent of the funding gap in Artemisirin Combination Therapy (ACT) and 86 per cent of the funding gap for rapid diagnostic test kits (RDTs). He stressed that Nigeria faces financial gap of N504 billion ($1.4b) to implement its national malaria strategy by 2020 (WMR). Earlier, Dr. Bala Mohammed, national coordinator, NMEP, said the national malaria prevalence dropped from 42 per cent to 27 per cent between 2010 and 2015. These outcomes were as a result of the synergy and support by government at all levels as well as investments by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), United States’ President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI), the U.K Department for International Development (DfID), World Bank, African Development Bank and other Roll Back Malaria (RBM) partners. According to him, this progress has, however, stalled based on the World Health Organisation (WHO) 2018 World Malaria Report (WMR), which shows a rise in estimated cases from 52.4 million in 2016 to 53.7 million in 2017, and an estimated additional 3 million cases in the country between 2016 and 2017. “In Nigeria, there is no doubt that most of the gains earlier achieved are gradually getting eroded. This is largely due to a number of factors, but chief among these is the inadequate funding and mobilisation of resource requirements that have limited access and coverage of intervention commodities. To arrest this negative slide and restore malaria control efforts back on track there is need for concerted efforts by all stakeholders to consolidate on the immediate past gains by improving on resource mobilisation,” he said, He pointed out that the only way out is to increase mobilisation of funds to enhance campaign, access and coverage of intervention commodities. He also stated that malaria remains life threatening parasitic disease that is transmitted through the bite of an infected female anopheles mosquito, and efforts are on to improve on the anti-malaria drugs being used to respond to the disease. The coordinator was hopeful that the situation could improve for better if stakeholders join the fight, through financial, expertise or logistics support. In a presentation, titled: “Bridging the resource gap for malaria elimination,” said Obot, who painted a gory picture of malaria situation in Nigeria. “There are over 53 million cases of malaria in Nigeria annually which accounts for 25 percent of global malaria burden. It means that one in every four Nigerians has malaria. There are 81, 640 deaths every year in Nigeria, approximately nine deaths per hour. Nigeria, undoubtedly, accounts for 19 per cent of global malaria deaths. It also means that one in five global deaths is recorded in Nigeria,” he disclosed.