In an effort to preserve the heritage of Awori people, a book entitled Ota Awori Kingdom: Synopsis and Biography of Oba T.T, Dada, Olota of Ota, 1954 – 1992 was presented in Ikeja, Lagos State, OLATUNDE ODEBIYI reports. A 572-page book has been written on the history of the Awori people and the reign of the late Olota of Ota, Oba Timothy Talabi Dada. The presentation held recently at Sheba Event Centre, Ikeja drew lots of guests that included political giants, traditional rulers, and sons and daughters of Awori Kingdom among others. It was written by Senator Gbolahan Dada of Ogun West Senatorial District in the 8th Assembly, and a literary icon, Mr Frank Akinola, a veteran journalist, publisher and author of The Ecomog Story: Dynamics of African Politics and International Conspiracy in African Wars’. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, described the book as a piece of history that should be a good reference for all Awori’s and students of History.  Represented by his Deputy, Noimot Salako, Abiodun congratulated the author saying the administration is aware of the issues about the Awori’s as listed by the Olota of Ota, “These issues were already known to us, even during the campaigns and lately at the coronation anniversary of the Olota. All the issues will be adequately looked at. This government will be fair, equitable and just. Be rest assured that this government would be a government for all, not for a specific Senatorial District or ethnic group. ” “You have our support on this opportunity for correction of the maginalisation of the Awori’s. I am sure that this book will complement the effort and strengthen the case forward. “Now that History is back in the school curriculum, this book is another way to engage people to understand and know where they are coming from to enable them know where they are going to. He urged all to take the opportunity to read the book, understand and spread the message around. Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi  Obalanlege, commended the authors, noting that, Ota was the foremost Awori town, which came from Ile-Ife in the 13th and 14th century. He added that the ancestors of the land would be happier because no one had ever written on the history or background of the  Aworis  in recent past. Dada said history has been made with the book. He said the book is needed to address issues in Awori land, noting that it would set the records straight and chart a new course towards the development of the area. “With the book, both the young and the old would have a better understanding of the Awori land. The book will also enable us to move forward as a people,” he said. Akinola described the book as a compendium of the Awori people, their great trek from Ile-Ife to found Lagos and Ota Awori Kingdom, turning it into commercial hubs of Nigeria and West Africa as far back as 10 centuries ago. He added that the book espouses the many encounters of the Awori, their perseverance, challenges and how they surmounted them, noting that the book chronicled the sequence of events about the Awori people and how the Yoruba sub-tribe was named Awori. “The book is written in straight prose style with an elaborate pictorial depiction combining the ancient and modern photograph of epoch-making event, individuals and sceneries,” he said. The reviewer, Prof. Tunde Babawale of the Department of Political Science, University of Lagos, said the authors traced the history of the Awori sub-ethnic Yoruba group to the ancestral home of all Yorubas, Ile-Ife and narrates in great detail how they moved from Ile-Ife through their progenitor, Olofin, to their present location in and around the coastal region in present day Lagos and Ogun states. Represented by Dr Jonn Adenle, Babawale noted that the authors have written a comprehensive book on the history of the Awori people and the achievement-filled reign of Prince Dada’s father, the late Olota of Ota, Oba Timothy Talabi Dada. He said the authors define the Aworis as a “peace-loving sub-ethnic Yoruba group, who speak a distinctive and easily recognizable Yoruba dialect”. “The name Awori, according to the authors, was derived from a mythical plate (Awo) given to Olofin, the progenitor of the Aworis by his father Oduduwa, with the instruction that the plate would serve as a pathfinder for him (Olofin) and his people who were moving away from Ile-Ife  and that wherever the plate sank would be their permanent settlement.