The grand patron and Ambassador Plenipotentiary of African Fashion Week London (AFW), the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja 11, will lead special guests to this year’s Africa Fashion Week in  London. Keynote speakers include wife of Ekiti State Governor Erelu Bisi Fayemi and wife of Kwara State Governor Olufolake Abdulrazaq who are Global Ambassador and Matron of Africa Fashion Week London respectively. Others are Queen Diambi Kabatusuila Tshiyoyo Muata , Vanessa Guonden, Jeanette Bain-Burnette, Miss Angelic Appoo, Teleica Kirkland, Vicky Ngari Wilson, Simone Cipriani, Sara Ali, Florence Kollie Raja and Abiola Sakpere-Oni. Holding at the prestigious Freemasons’ Hall, 60 Great Queen Street, London, between August 9 and 10. This year’s event will feature catwalk shows and exhibition with over 100 designers from different parts of the globe in attendance. According to the organisers, AFWL is fully committed to bringing African fashion to the forefront of the industry. It noted that African-inspired designs are dominating the international fashion scene and time is now to appreciate the design vibrancy of Africa. “The vibrant and colourful exhibitions are carefully curated to include sustainable and eco fashions. With this in mind, reserve a seat to watch catwalk showcases featuring collections from the Kwa-Zulu Natal Trade & Industry (TIKZN) designers who are returning to AFWL for an exclusive catwalk show and luxury exhibition. “TIKZN is unique in the fact that they only produce apparel designs with fabrics and embellishments produced in the Natal region of South Africa.  For the first time, Seychelles Trade & Industry sponsored designers also join the AFWL catwalk,” it added. For the lovers of high-end fashion, the introduction of the Luxury Boutique, powered by our Commercial Partner EPG Media, will showcase luxury clothing and accessories from the culturally diverse Continent to the European market. The show will also afford connoisseurs the opportunity to browse African Market Souk for exclusive afro-centric designs or cuisines in African Food Village.  With several brands travelling in from overseas to debut collections, those in attendance are guaranteed to purchase several red-carpet-worthy items or unique one-off pieces that will adorn any summer wardrobe. The AFWL has added a new development to its package this year with the introduction of Business Fashion Forum, powered by our Commercial Partner EPG Media.  This, the organisers disclosed, will involve talk and panel sessions from leading manufacturers, retailers and government officials from all areas relating to fashion. “This element offers guidance, advice and valuable industry insight to aspiring designers and creatives. Special guest speakers will include the Mayor of London’s Office, Department of Trade South Africa and The Royal Kew Gardens. Prizes for the best African-inspired outfit will be given,” it added. Founded in 2011 by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi, Africa Fashion Week London (AFWL) is now Europe’s largest annual fashion event promoting and nurturing African and African-inspired design talent. Using a collaborative catwalk, exhibition and business development programme, AFWL is a social enterprise that has led the way in transforming the perception of Africa’s emerging design talent and apparel industry in the international scene. With a core team of experienced fashion industry experts and business professionals, AFWL is committed to creating a platform to support African designers while building a sustainable business that is globally recognised and promotes social, environmental and economic change in Africa. For the past nine years, AFWL has consistently employed over 50 BAME catwalk models every year.  It has employed over 100 young people every year who work with as volunteers for backstage runners, dressers, hair & makeup teams, front of house, and administration – giving them vital skills in event management and catwalk and exhibition production. It has showcased over 900 designers and exhibitors from Africa and the global diaspora to over 70,000 visitors and represented designers from 27 African countries and outside the continent, including France, Holland, USA, Brazil, China, the Caribbean and the United Kingdom.