Former Abia State Governor Orji Uzor Kalu on Monday opened defence in his money laundering trial at the Federal High Court in Lagos. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) re-arraigned him for allegedly laundering N7.65 billion state funds. Justice Mohammed Idris, who was elevated to the Court of Appeal, on January 23, adjourned the trial indefinitely because he was not given a fiat to adjudicate on the matter. The judge informed the parties Monday that he had been given the fiat. He said: “By a fiat, dated July 8, the President of the Court of Appeal has directed that I conclude this part-heard matter. Trial will now run from day to day until we finish.” Prosecuting counsel Rotimi Jacobs (SAN) said he was ready, but defence counsel Prof Awa Kalu (SAN) said he was not. Prof Kalu said after receiving a hearing notice, he informed the court about his involvement in election petition matters, which are constitutionally time-barred. Pleading for an adjournment, the lawyer said he had to be in court to explain his constraints, adding that the casefile was also not in his possession. But Jacobs said the former governor should open his defence so that some progress could be made, a submission the judge agreed with. Responding to a question, Kalu said: “About few weeks ago, I was a manufacturer of home goods but now a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The senator explained that the home goods included “seasoning and tomatoes” and that he resigned following his election. Kalu also confirmed that he was standing trial along with two other defendants, who were absent. At this point, the defence counsel told the court that he could not continue with the examination, and sought an adjournment, which Jacobs did not oppose. Justice Idris, on July 31, last year, dismissed Kalu’s no-case submission and ordered him to open his defence. EFCC said Kalu, whilst being governor between 2001 and September 2006, procured Slok Nigeria Limited, a company belonging to him and members of his family, to retain N7.2 billion in its Inland Bank Plc account, on his behalf. The commission said the money “formed part of the funds illegally derived from the treasury of Abia State government and which was converted into several bank drafts before they were paid into the said company’s account”. Kalu was accused of collaborating with Udeh Jones Udeogu, Slok Nigeria and Emeka Abone (alleged to be on the run) “in concealing the genuine origin of an aggregate sum of N7,197,871,208.70…” The alleged offence violates Section 17(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2004, and liable to be punished under Section 16. The defendants were also accused of receiving N460 million allegedly stolen from the Abia State government treasury between July and December 2002. Udeogu, Slok Nigeria, Abone and Michael Udo, also said to be on the run, were accused of collaborating with Kalu to conceal the “genuine origin” of allegedly stolen funds. Kalu and Udeogu, a former Director of Finance in Abia State Government House, pleaded not guilty to the amended 39-count charge. They were initially arraigned on a 34-count charge, to which five fresh counts were added. Justice Idris, while adjourning till August 26, said trial would hold day-to-day. 