Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa has said that the House would do the needful and ensure that only nominees ready to serve would be cleared as commissioners and special advisers in the state. The speaker stated this on Monday at plenary when the list of the nominees for appointment as commissioners and Special Advisers forwarded by Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu was read to the House. Obasa commended Sanwo-Olu’s proactive step in sending the list to the House within a short time of his inauguration and making this public. He said, “This House will take this up immediately and do the needful as provided in the constitution by screening the nominees. “We will do this diligently; we will consider what they have (nominees) and what they are bringing to the table to support the administration of the governor and how they intend to move the state forward. “I want to assure His Excellency that we will do this to the best of our knowledge by making sure that those, at the end of the day will be cleared, are those who are ready to work with him and have all it takes to serve Lagos.” Earlier, the Clerk of the House, Mr Sanni Azeez, read Sanwo-Olu’s 25 nominees for the post of commissioners and special advisers. “In accordance with Section 192 part 2 Chapter 6 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), I am pleased to covey the list and resume of the first batch of the nominees for appointment as honourable commissioners and special advisers for the kind consideration and confirmation of the honouable members of the House of Assembly. “The names and the resumes of the remaining nominees will also be forwarded in due course for the consideration and clearance of honourable members accordingly,” the letter read in part. The Clerk read the list of the nominees to include: Dr Rabiu Onaolapo, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, Prof. Akin Abayomi, Dr Idris Salako, Mr Tunji Bello, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka and Mrs Bolaji Dada. Others include, Mr Lere Odusote, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, Mr Gbolahan Lawal, Dr Wale Ahmed, Dr. Wale Ahmed, Mr Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN), Mr Hakeem Fahm and Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle. Also on the list are: Mr Aramide Adeyoye, Mr Segun Dawodu, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, Mr. Sam Egube, Ms Ruth Olusanya, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, Mr Tunbosun Alake and Mr Afolabi Ayantayo, Ms Adekemi Ajayi-Bembe and Mr. Femi George.  