The Police has released the Medical Director of Victory hospital and Children’s clinic, Onitsha, Dr Oliver Nnamdi Umeh, his staff and Hospital of alleged involvement in the death of a new born baby his hospital. The clearance report from the IGP office obtained by our correspondent on Sunday, cleared Umeh, his hospital and staff of mutilating the ear of the dead baby, daughter of one Mr Solomon Igwe. The dead baby’s ear was also reportedly eaten up by rodents hence the ‘serrated edges of the defect left behind’ according to two autopsy reports. It further pointed out that Histology report showed that the defect in the ear arose after death. The clearance letter from IGP partly read. “….both first and second post mortem conducted on the instance of the father of the deceased baby that; 1a Alphyxia from 1b respiratory distress syndrome of the new born, a situation that leads to inability of the baby to retain air in the lungs. “The ear was apparently removed by rodents, hence the serrated edges of the defect left behind. Histology also shows that the defect arose after death. ‘’Consequently, this evidently resolved the contention as to the cause of death and the severed ear. In conclusion, there is nothing of evidential value linking Dr Oliver Nnamdi Umeh to the alleged crime established in the course of investigation as such, no evidence abound to ground the allegation linking Dr Oliver Nnamdi Umeh, please’’. The police clearance was endorsed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Homicide), Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), DCP Ayim Abraham. The report showed that the allegations against the MD was orchestrated to tarnish his image and destroy his medical reputation as one of the good Children clinic in Onitsha and its environs. The media, in October 2015, had reported that a baby girl’s ear was allegedly cut off in that hospital for ritual purposes as alleged by Mr Igwe Solomon, father of the dead child whose body was mutilated. The reports were without obtaining the side of the Medical Director, Dr Oliver Nnamdi Umeh even though reporters claimed he was unreachable as at press ti