Respected Edo chief Oseni Elamah has dissociated himself from a statement issued recently by Edo Professionals on the lingering political crisis in Edo State. In a widely publicised two-page advertorial last week entitled: “Avoiding the temptation to pull down the solid house you built for Edo people” and addressed to the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the group listed Chief Elamah among the 50 signatories.” Governor Godwin Obaseki and his predecessor and predecessor, Oshiomhole, are currently having a rift over political choices. But reacting yesterday, Elamah said that he was neither contacted nor consulted by the author of the statement, even while restating his commitment to the philosophy of the Edo Professionals to foster unity and progress of Edo people. His statement reads: “I have been inundated with calls from friends, well-wishers and associates expressing worries over a statement issued by Edo Professionals over the political issue in Edo State in which my name was mentioned as one of the signatories. “The truth of the matter is that I read the advertorial on the pages of the newspaper like everyone else. I was neither contacted nor consulted by those who put the adverts in the papers. “As a proud Edo man fully committed to the unity, understanding among our people and the stability and progress of our state, I quite share the stated vision of Edo Professionals. “But on the lingering political issue, some of us have been working sincerely behind the scene and would rather adopt quiet measures to reconcile the political actors. “As a matter of fact, both Comrade Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin are personal friends of mine, to whom I enjoy easy and unlimited access. It’s not in my character to go to the public square or pages of newspaper to broadcast efforts being made to make peace.” Elamah, who was Executive Chairman of the Edo Internal Revenue Service when Oshiomhole held the fort, is the Okaoivbiore of Benin Kingdom. He is presently the Executive Secretary of the Joint Tax Board.