Innovative thinking has been absent from the leadership style of Nigerian governments. This has created and perpetuated a visionless leadership in the country’s affairs since independence. Recently, I got a post showing a country unveiling its new train, which they claimed was the fastest in the world. I also saw the same country unveil what it called the longest bridge in the world. I looked at the pictures wistfully, wondering when Nigeria would unveil ‘something best’ in the world other than corruption or killing. Many modern and gladsome breakthroughs are going on in saner climes without us … Rather, what is going on in my insane clime is worrisome. I received a post on the social media in which a community leader got up at a cross-tribal meeting and declared that the incursion of Fulani herdsmen into his community was causing too many deaths. What was worse, he noticed that they were armed to the teeth with AK47s which they were using to carry out the many kidnapping incidents reported in his area, yet no one was holding them accountable. Could anyone therefore help him and his community procure their own AK47s please? Honestly, I was shocked. Not that I receive my news from the social media. No, not by a long shot. For news, I go to the news organs. However, the idea that that particular post had crossed many hands, or phones if you like, before getting to mine sincerely had me frightened. Something is clear from all the goings-on: someone is deliberately trying to set Nigeria on fire and the presidency is not worried. That is what has had me worried! There are many things about the current happenings that have really befuddled those of us who are not too bright in the head. First of all, in the last twenty-four months, this country has witnessed many herdsmen/farmers clashes with high fatalities usually on the farmers’ side. Yet, despite all the hues and cries, not one of the assaulting group has been arrested or prosecuted. Whenever the public has complained about the activities of herdsmen, for instance, the presidency has gone into pyrogenic dances of words producing heated, unbelievable excuses that beg the question and beggar belief all at once. Clearly, there have been many disappointments all around but the most for me has been with the president of the country. When he was sick, we prayed for him and waited for him to return and handle the affairs of this state with his customary firmness. Alas, that well-known firm hand appears to have been washed too many times in softening shampoos. The president’s hand has gone unaccustomedly soft. And I know it did not come from the hand lotion I use. Rather than deal firmly with the phenomenon when it first broke, the presidency gave every excuse in the book except the right one. First the excuse of desertification came, followed by the failure of the media to situate the events in their proper context. For the correct information, the people were left to guess and read between the lines, or president’s lips if you like. The people therefore guessed wrongly or rightly that there was a covert government-supported attempt by the Fulani to take over the country. It is so bad now there is a post of a Nigerian international passport page bearing a Fulani herdsman standing with his cows, rather than of me in the classroom with my students! Imagine that! Unfortunately, the president has not helped matters by keeping mum over his intentions. Rather, he has left the public to interpret his actions and pronouncements, and I tell you this in confidence, their conclusions are not good. Take the RUGA thing for instance. Many people have seen it as not only an attempt to steal people’s land but actually to plant the Fulani in those communities for a future politico-religious take-over. They are probably correct, I don’t know, but I see it as an outright, bare-knuckle and bare-faced robbery on the government’s part, if the government is indeed behind it. If the government is behind it, then the government is wrong. It is as simple as that. Three facts cannot be ignored. One is that there is desertification in the north, particularly the routes covered traditionally by Fulani herdsmen. This desertification did not start in a day. It started many years back, when there was time enough to arrest it if there had been sufficient political will and vision. True, you might argue that it might have resulted from the global warming effect, and I would argue that many countries are also affected but their governments have not asked those affected to move and then arm them against their host communities. That would be a lazy, thoughtless solution that negates modern innovative thinking. Two is the fact that the governments in the north appear not to have taken the matter too seriously and have approached it the way governance has typically been done in Nigeria: swallow the money and let the people find their way like blind men. Innovative thinking has been absent from the leadership style of Nigerian governments. This has created and perpetuated a visionless leadership in the country’s affairs since independence. We have not been able to pull ourselves out of that mould of ad-hoc and lazy solutions to problems. No one, for instance, is asking, what happens when desertification strikes those places where the government wants the herdsmen to run to? Will everyone now run into the lagoon? The number three fact is that there now appears to be, according to reports, a coalition of herdsmen from surrounding countries who are taking advantage of the fact that the president of the country is friendly. The government, however, cannot will out other people’s lands to others who come from God-knows-where, no matter how well-meaning it is. Governmentally doling out other people’s lands for others to occupy, whether or not they are of the president’s own ethnic group, is no longer feasible in this twenty-first century. To give out any land freely, the government has to grow its own land, either in space or in the sea, certainly not on the land which genealogies have owned for centuries even before Nigeria became Nigeria. Goat, sheep or cow herding is an economic activity like any other such as trading, doctoring, etc. Until now, I have not heard of any trades group or crafts group that were allocated land by the government free of charge to practice their trade or craft. I am not aware of any instance even if it has been done. To my knowledge, most people have had to purchase what land they have needed from each other in personal transactions. The government has almost always only been invited to witness the transaction through its agencies with one eye. People should buy the land they need. Besides, having encouraged herdsmen to kill and kidnap, would they automatically be cured of killing by the RUGA thing? Most often not. When people taste blood, they do not forget it easily. Herdsmen have tasted blood and have not been prosecuted for murder or kidnapping. I honestly do not expect that to end. Many countries have developed home-grown solutions to their problems. Adopting the line of least resistance to the desertification problem is the most uninventive, unimaginative, uncreative and original (please stop me) way to go. We need to be more original. The government should concentrate on stopping who is arming the herdsmen for sinister purposes or I’ll begin to seriously think about getting my own AK48, and then get a herdsman to teach me how to use it. Seriously, there are better ways of solving this problem other than letting the people loose pointing AK47s or AK48s at each other. When groups begin to demand their own AK47s, the government should be very, very worried about the potential conflagration.