Out of 13,000 candidates who entered for this year’s PZ Cussons Chemistry Challenge, Aderibigbe Eniola Peace won the contest yesterday, winning N1 million, a laptop and one-year supply of Premier toilet soap. The 15-year-old pupil of Babcock University High School,Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State, is the first winner produced after the competition became national. The grand finale, which held at Loveworld Studios, Ikeja, had six participants, comprising three boys and three girls, vying for the star prize. With three stages to determine the winner, Andrew Ulan of Premier School, Abuja, stepped down, making her sixth; he was followed by Ugboma David of Makun School, Ogun State. Ndidi Christabel of Demonstration Staff School, Asaba, Delta State, came fourth; Ojuba Mezisashe, a girl from Loyola Jesuit College, Abuja, was third and Adele Chika of Jephthah Secondary School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, was second. Mezisashe and Chika were awarded N750,000 and N500,000 with a laptop and one-year supply of Premier soap. Their teachers and schools were not left out as they were gifted cash prizes. The students who emerged as the fourth, fifth and sixth were also awarded with N50,000 and one-year supply of Premier soap. The winner of the competition, Aderibigbe Eniola who is from Babcock University High school expressed happiness, also stating how hard he had to prepare. “I am very happy and elated to be the winner of this challenge. I give God the glory. I thank God.” “I made a lot of sacrifices. I had to forego a lot of holidays in preparation for this competition. I was in school studying, I also prayed” Mezisashe stating that girls can now compete equally with boys encouraged girls to work harder. “Gone are the days when girls can’t compete with boys. Girls and guys now compete on equal footing. I wish more girls would put in more effort. I hope next year a girl will snag top prize. I’m happy to have won second position. Some girls would look up to me hopefully and believe they can do it.” On his part, Chika was grateful for the competition as he said it helped him to be more studious. “Im happy to be here, to be part of this competition. This was a chance for me to put in more effort into my academics. This has made me far more studious than I am, I’m very happy”. Head of Marketing, PZ cussons consumer, Charles Nnochiri expressed joy that a lady emerged top three and promised that coming editions of the competition would be better. “I’m happy we had three ladies at the finals and got one of them as the first three. This is just the iceberg. We would get better, we have decided to go all over Nigeria.”