The Cooperative Society of the Academic Staff Union (ASUU) of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL) in Niger State, has built a multi-million naira students’ lodge. The off-campus facility, located close to the institution’s permanent site on Paiko-Lapai Road, was inaugurated by the Vice Chancellor, Prof Muhammad Nasir Maiturare, who lamented that most tertiary institutions across the country grapple with the challenge of accessible and quality accommodation for students’ burgeoning population. Maiturare applauded ASUU for embarking on the landmark project worth N50million, which he believes, would   complement management’s effort at providing standard accommodation for both workers and students. Maiturare said: “The students who are going to occupy this beautiful and functional lodge must imbibe the culture of maintenance. Let them maintain the modern facilities provided in the hostel for their own comfort and memorable stay in school. They should not become agents of vandalism who will destroy valuable properties. “I commend the effort of IBBUL-ASUU for putting in place this aesthetic edifice. It will surely be gratifying, and I urge other staff unions in the university to emulate what ASUU has done. They should embark on similar projects that will add value and make meaningful impact on the living condition of members of the university community.” IBBUL-ASUU Chairman Mohammed Kudu Yusuf, said the project was initiated to assist the management tackle the lingering accommodation problem faced by students, and generate revenue for the university. He said that hostel christened ‘Academic Lodge’ is made up of 17 self-contained standard rooms. “With singular delight, I also wish to inform all at this ground-breaking ceremony that our cooperative has already embarked on building another 20 self-contained apartments. At the moment, construction at the lodge has reached 40 per cent percent; and very soon, it will be due for inauguration,” said Yusuf. Some students expressed delight with the project, urging management to toe ASSU’s line. They urged the management to enter into public private-partnership (PPP) with corporate bodies to facilitate the construction of more hostels and other critical infrastructure at the insitution. Zainab Yahaya, 300-Level Public Administration, called on ASUU to subsidise the amount ASUU would charge for rooms, and provide maximum security for occupants. She said: “The private individuals who build lodges in Lapai town, and thereafter fix outrageous amounts on the rooms in the estates, want to maximise profit. But IBBUL-ASUU has no ground to charge exorbitant amounts for the rooms in their newly lodge. They should rather subsidise the rent fee for students.”