BARRING the unforeseen, the 43 ministerial nominees sent by President Muhammadu Buhari to the Senate for screening will be confirmed today. As of yesterday, 40 of the would-be-ministers had been screened by the
senators, leaving only three to face the Committee of the Whole today before
the scheduled confirmation. Former Osun and Lagos states governors Rauf Aregbesola and Babatunde
Fashola were among the nine nominees who appeared before the Senate yesterday.
They gave good accounts of themselves. The screening began last Wednesday, a day after the memo containing the
nominees’ names was transmitted to Senate President Ahmed Lawan through the
President’s Chief of Staff (CoS), Abba Kyari. Aregbesola, Fashola and the other seven nominees, told the senators what
they would do to add value to the Buhari-led administration if cleared for
appointment as ministers. The former Osun governor, who highlighted his eight-year tenure in the
“State of the Living Spring”, said he planned to push for a new tax regime if
confirmed for appointment. Aregbesola who described his proposed tax regime as “just”, noted that
wealthy Nigerians should be appropriately taxed to raise revenue for the
country. He noted that if confirmed for appointment, he would champion the
collection of “privilege tax” from those with huge resources. Aregbesola said: “If confirmed, I will advocate for a just taxation
system that will bridge the inequality in the system. The truth is that Nigeria
is a federation and I am a federalist. “We have left rich men in Nigeria without discharging their
responsibility to the country. I am going to champion a just tax regime for
wealthy Nigerians.” The former governor also told the Senate that the disparity in the
payment of salaries during his tenure in Osun State ended in July 2018 before
the expiration of his term in November. He said civil servants from grade level 1-7, who could barely survive
with their salaries, were never owed a dime during his tenure. Aregbesola described his nomination for appointment by President
Muhammadu Buhari as a minister as a great privilege. He noted that his stint in Lagos as Works & Infrastructure
Commissioner provided him a great opportunity to test his capacity to manage
the affairs of people. The nominee, who reminded the Senate that the primary responsibility of
governors was to provide security and welfare for the people, thanked God for
giving him the capacity to do that in Osun. Aregbesola described himself as a Nigerian who had been tested in all
aspects of human endeavour to serve. Senator Rochas Okorocha described his nomination as a blessing, assuring
that Aregbesola as a member of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) would not
hesitate to point out the President’s mistake, if need be. The former Imo governor said the nominee “talks nothing but the unity of
the country and how the country could move forward”. Stating that “honour should be given to whom honour is due,” Okorocha
moved that Aregbesola be allowed to take a bow and go. On how he gave his salary to Adamawa Senator Elisha Abbo to fund his
local government area chairmanship election, Aregbesola noted that he had
forgotten the gesture but added that he was tutored to be large-hearted by
Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Fashola, who was grilled for almost an hour, proposed the introduction
of a N10 trillion infrastructure bond to address the country’s massive
infrastructure deficit. Senate President Lawan said that over 40 senators enlisted to ask
questions from the Lagos ministerial nominee, who was the immediate past
minister of Power, Works & Housing. Attributing infrastructure deficit to paucity of funds, Fashola said the
country continued to operate a deficit budget. He believed that the introduction of the bond would go a long way to
address the infrastructure challenge the country is facing. The bond, he explained, should also be backed by a legislative
instrument that would enable interested Nigerians to invest as low as N1, 000. Fashola noted that like the Sukuk that was
over-subscribed, the infrastructure bond should be tried in the country. The nominee told the senators that the Federal Government had operated
deficit budgets in the last four years due to paucity of funds. Fashola also noted that to the credit of the Federal Government, there
is at least one federal road project in each state of the federation. He said: “We could, with some pride say that there is in each state of
the federation at least one federal road.” Fashola noted that the government also intervened in roads in
universities, adding that at the time he left office, “we were intervening in
at least 14 federal universities”. The nominee stated that housing projects were ongoing in at least 34 of
the 36 states. Fashola reiterated that scarcity of resources was a major constraint in
his efforts to execute projects. He noted that contrary to the wide, held view, there are constitutional
provisions for states to participle in the provision of power. On the adoption of Public Private Partnership (PPP) for projects,
Fashola said that PPP is not attractive in some projects. He canvassed the possibility to expand financial instruments, such as
the Sukkuk, to fund
projects. On the power reform programme, the nominee said that it would be wrong
to conclude that the reform was not working until the country exhausts all the
powers of the regulator to ensure that the Discos and Gencos perform. Fashola also said the country could decide not to initiate new projects
in a particular year. He noted that Nigeria should learn to priotise projects, adding that
“Nigeria is not yet a rich country that I know it will be. He said that the Federal Government was working to raise $5 billion from
China for the Mambila Power Project. The other nominees, who were screened yesterday are: Dr. Muhammad
Mahmoud (Kaduna); Senator Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara); Goddy Jedy-Agba (Cross
River); Sulaiman H. Adamu (Jigawa); Clement IK Anade-Agba (Edo); Ambassador
Maryam Katagum (Bauchi) and Geoffrey Onyeama (Enugu). After screening of the nine nominees slated for the day, Senate
President, Lawan said that they would screen the three remaining nominees
today. He also said: “We will do the approval and confirmation of all the
screened nominees.” The three remaining nominees to be screened today are former
Information, Lai Mohammed (Kwara), Sabo Nanono (Kano) and Saleh Mamman
(Taraba).