Inspired by Prof Wole Soyinka’s humanist principles, Open Door Series ten years ago initiated the annual Wole Soyinka International Cultural Exchange, (WSICE) to mark the Nobel laureate’s 75th birthday anniversary. This year, to mark a decade of these celebrations and the 85th birthday of Soyinka (July 13), WSICE programmes will be flagged off on Friday July 12.  It will run till July 15. Since its maiden edition ten years ago, the exchange has featured over 10,000 secondary students and more than 200 local and international resource persons. The WSICE is anchored around Soyinka’s humanist principles as enunciated in his body of works and his consistent patriotic engagement with the socio-political and cultural affairs of Nigeria, Africa and the world at large. July 2019 is, indeed, a landmark for the WSICE project primarily motivated by the life and career of the quintessential artiste – dramatist, poet, theatre director, teacher, culture scholar and public intellectual.  Clocking 85 is as well a milestone in the life of the illustrious son of Africa; distinguished father of Nigerian and African arts and cultural heritage, who is also an iconic global citizen. Co-Executive Producer of the WSICE, Teju Kareem, said “the OpenDoorSeries/WSICE is not to be misconstrued as a mere celebration of Wole Soyinka’s date of birth — the man is not, in anyway, really interested in such vanities as staging a party to celebrate his yearly birthday — but the project is designed to celebrate the quintessential artiste as an eminent promoter of the good of humanity. And especially to set his exemplary philosophies and visionary ideals as promoted in his works and lifestyle as veritable examples for peoples across race, gender, age, religious and political persuasions, especially the young ones, who need models they can relate to.” This year’s edition will also mark a grand return of the OpenDoorSeries/WSICE to Lagos, where its maiden edition was staged at the MUSON Centre, Onikan Lagos. Also, as was the design at its birth, the project will extend its programming beyond its traditional base in Abeokuta, Ogun State. While the mostly students/youth-focused programmes like essay writing, workshop, youth creative expressions (Do Your Own Thing, (DYOT) etc. would still take place in Abeokuta, which had served as traditional base of the programme in the past eight years; the mentoring session will hold in Akure, Ondo State. The adult session – advocacy session, drama, dance and poetry performances, film screening, book presentations etc. would hold at the Freedom Park in Lagos. Kareem stated: “The resolve to take the 10th anniversary celebration to the Freedom Park, which remains the topmost hub for artistic productions and creative expressions in the country, is partly in recognition of Wole Soyinka’s status as the patron saint of the Park, and of creativity in Nigeria and Africa.” The renowned theatre designer, scenographer, and Chief Executive Officer ZMirage Multimedia Company, promised that this year’s edition will unveil the future characteristics and direction of the project, which he co-founded with theatre director, Prof Segun Ojewuyi, of the United States-based GlobalNewHaven.