Media reports to the effect that Court of Appeal judges had been directed to forget their annual vacation this year on account of the volume of pending election-related cases should send us thinking about the nature of the country we are in, as well as its future. Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, the court’s president who announced the cancellation of the vacation said this became inevitable “considering the enormous petitions the court is faced with”. She added: “2019 being an election year, it became obvious that we have to forfeit our annual vacation to enable us entertain and determine all appeals arising from the various election petition tribunals transmitted to the court.” Whilst I was still unsure of what to comment on this week, even as late as Friday afternoon, I again stumbled on the report that even the Supreme Court had set up two panels to sit during the judges’ annual vacation which begins tomorrow. A statement by the director of press and information of the apex court, Dr Akande Festus, said “The panels of the Supreme Court, comprising five judges each, will be sitting during the annual vacation which marks the end of 2018/2019 legal year. This development arose from the numerous appeals on election-related matters that have been streaming to the court since the conduct of the election … The panels will sit during the holiday period in order to see that all election-related matters are dealt with”. It was at this point that it dawned on me that it won’t be a bad idea to comment on the issue. We can say litigation is an integral part of democracy; that people who are not satisfied with the conduct or outcome of an election should approach the courts for redress. As a matter of fact, we have been celebrating many people who follow that course of action since the return to civil rule in 1999; instead of resorting to violence to settle whatever the political scores are. But we have got to a point where we should begin to interrogate some of these electoral litigations. The truth is; one does not need to be a senior advocate to know that some of these political (or even other cases) ought not to have gone to court in the first place. Eaglet or baby lawyers know this for a fact. Even as laymen, we have eyes to see clearly enough that some of the cases that are taken to our courts are lacking in merit and lawyers should have so advised their clients. But what do we have? We have a situation where some lawyers turn themselves into something worse than laymen (remember I have said that even as laymen, some of us know that some of those cases should not go to court in the first place) usually because of what they want to eat. Whilst it is bad enough that some of these ‘charge and bail’ lawyers engage in such frivolities that waste the time of the court, one becomes sadder still when those behind such cases are supposedly senior lawyers who have either made it, or just had their palm kernels cracked for them by some benevolent spirits (apologies to the late Chinua Achebe). The number of election-related cases pending in our courts is simply amazing. I have no doubt that such would make the Guinness Book of Record if those compiling the facts for the ‘wonder book’ take interest in such matters. According to the summary of cases in the Court of Appeal Divisions prepared by the head, legal services unit, Mrs. Adaeze Oby Aziwe, a total of 2,397 appeals and 5,120 motions were filed during the period under review. Similarly, reports from the office of the DCR, Court of Appeal, Election Petition Tribunal, Mrs. Rabi Abdulazeez Yakubu, say that a total of 800 petitions were filed as at June 17, 2019. “A breakdown of this figure shows that, State House of Assembly recorded the highest figure of 415, Senate 105, House of Representatives 214, governorship 62 and presidential, four petitions. “According to the fact sheets emanating from the 77 election petition tribunals set up by the President of the Court of Appeal as at April 23, 2019, 65 petitions were either dismissed or struck out while 735 petitions are pending.” With such a huge number of political cases in courts, the impression is erroneously created that our politicians really love us that they cannot see their opponents sitting on the same seats they both contested for, ostensibly on our behalf. But nothing can be more fallacious. If this country has had leaders who fight for the common good the way they fight for political office and relevance, we should not be where we are today. Rather than simply going home to plan for the next electoral contest, most of these bad losers end up going to congest our courts that are already brimming with other criminal matters, wasting the precious time of the courts in the process. What is at stake is the bucks. Perhaps there are no cases where people have money to waste than on electoral matters. For God’s sake, why would someone be ready to spend his hard-earned money on electoral petitions, if not for the hope of recouping the money if he eventually wins? I think it is high time the judges began to come real hard on these politicians, and harder still on lawyers who should know but allow themselves to be blinded by the filthy lucre from the engagements. Having corrupted the political space, the politicians have extended the corruption to the sanctuaries of justice. All right-thinking and patriotic Nigerians must unite to fight this scourge. Annual leave is not something that should be trivialised. Those who started it did so for a purpose. And if our judges must be kept without annual leave, it should be for something more serious; not for frivolous electoral petitions. The judges deserve their rest.