Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday urged security agencies to key into his administration’s plan to secure the metropolis. He spoke when he visited the Safety Arena at Oshodi, which houses the agencies. The governor said: “We are going round our security formations, our agencies that interface with the public.” Among the agencies are: Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit (Task Force), Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC), Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC), Fire Service, Legionnaires and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Sanwo-Olu also visited Lagos State Environmental Management Agency (LASEMA) Response Unit (LRU) at Cappa and Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and Revenue House at Alausa, Ikeja. Addressing RRS officials, he enjoined them to make Lagos unsafe for criminals. “Lagos must not be a safe haven for criminals, you must maintain constant security surveillance across the state and flush out hoodlums from their hideouts,” the governor said. Addressing the personnel at Safety Arena, Sanwo-Olu said government alone could not provide the conducive environment and security needed. “This is why all of you are here at the Safety Arena to help support us to achieve that purpose. “We are all here to serve Lagosians in one form or the other. You are here to serve the entire citizens of Lagos State and in doing that we must live up to our responsibilities at all times. Do your work with professionalism, humility, be civil and do it with a human face.” He warned them against extorting money from the public, saying: “I will not want to hear issues concerning extorting money from people because you are carrying out your responsibility; it is a crime because you will be abusing the authority of the government given to you by so doing. “Let Lagosians feel the positive impact of what you are doing, let the citizens feel us and know that corrective governance is what we are all about.” Sanwo-Olu promised to address the agencies’ problems. “We will repair few vehicles, buy few vehicles, provide few offices and properly equip offices. We will do all in our power to make your working environment conducive and of course take care of your welfare. “We know you are here doing a good job, continue to do the good job, but let Lagosians feel the positive effect of what you are doing. We will continue to live up to your expectations from us, we will continue to discharge our responsibilities to you as when due, but we also want the same from all of you as well,” the governor said. He was accompanied by his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Folashade Jaji, Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, Chief of Staff, Mr. Tayo Ayinde, Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Gboyega Soyannwo and Lagos Security Trust Fund (LSTF) Executive Secretary Mr. Abdul-Rasaq Balogun.