For Africa to attain the much-talked about blue economy, it must tackle piracy, sea robbery, kidnapping and related crimes. To this end, African naval forces and maritime defence stakeholders gathered in Accra, Ghana to resolve these problems, writes PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU. From the Gulf of Aden to the Gulf of Guinea and beyond, evidence abounds of Africa’s richness in natural and human resources; but the people wallow in abject poverty and are further threatened daily by different forms of insecurity fuelled by proliferation of firearms smuggled into the country by criminal syndicates who take advantage of the open sea. With an overwhelmingly young population
projected to double by 2050 and quadruple by the end of the century, security
challenges lurking in the foreseeable future are worrisomely giving the spate
of conflicts that have increased the number of internally displaced persons,
refugees which are likely to adversely affect maritime security. Of more
concern is the fact that about one-third of global Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
is generated by transnational organised crime mostly transported through the
oceans thus robbing affected countries of needed tax revenues. Worse hit is the GOG which has over 80 per
cent of its resources domiciled in the vast area covering  2.35 million km² and remains one of the
world’s richest and under-exploited places. The region holds about 35 per cent
of global total petroleum reserve and accounts for 20 per cent of global rainforest reserve
thus serving as major oxygen and hydrocarbon generating sources of the world. These resources have no doubt made the
region comprising Ghana, Togo, Benin, Nigeria, Cote D’Ivoire Cameroon, Gabon,
Equatorial Guinea, Congo, São Tomé and Príncipe, Congo DRC, Angola and Cabinda,
to be the toast of criminal syndicates with some of them alleged to have links
with multinationals engaged in IUU, oil theft and sundry maritime infractions. According to statistics by the European
Fisheries Control (EFC), the GOG accounts for up to 37 per cent of IUU
representing €1.5 billion. International Maritime Bureau (IMB) Piracy Reporting
Centre said the GOG accounted for 40 per cent of the 201 recorded cases of
piracy, armed robbery in 2018. “The Gulf of Guinea is particularly
dangerous for seafarers: reports of attacks in waters between the Ivory Coast
and the Congo more than doubled in 2018, and these incidents accounted for the
overwhelming majority of serious acts of piracy worldwide. The Gulf of Guinea
accounted for all six hijackings, 13 of the 18 ships fired upon, 130 of the 141
hostages held, and 78 of 83 seafarers kidnapped for ransom worldwide. “In a worrisome trend, this violence
accelerated in the last quarter of the year (2018). 41 kidnappings were
recorded off Nigeria between October and December, more than half the annual
total. Some of these attacks occurred up to 100nm offshore, well outside of the
territorial waters of West African states,” said IBM. Realising the enormity of the threats and
its adverse effects on the actualization of the blue economy viz-a-viz the
impossibility of any nation to independently address them, naval forces of 25
African countries for the first time in history held International Maritime
Defence Exhibition and Conference (IMDEC) in Accra, Ghana, to chart a common
solution to the menaces plaguing the continent’s maritime space and robbing it
of billions in dollars. Objectives of IMDEC Featuring 40 Admirals, Chiefs of Navies
and Coast Guards from within and outside the GOG region, the conference
addressed critical and emerging maritime threats being faced in the continent.
It brought to the table, threats like piracy, IUU, armed robbery at sea,
trafficking among others that disrupt regional stability and impede economic
prosperity of African countries. It expanded conversations about the use of
modern technological innovations to curb IUU which is dominating the region’s
maritime domain; the need for a common database on maritime offenders and
improved information sharing, capacity building as well as knowledge, skills
transfer. The conference also discussed cyber and
electronic warfare acknowledging the reality that no individual nation was
strong enough to check unfolding security threats singlehandedly, talk more of
the GOG -a region blessed with enormous resources yet very porous. It focused on revisiting existing concepts
for joint operations for enhanced maritime security with a bid to incorporate
intelligence expertise and improved domain awareness of regional forces for
better protection of the greater maritime and coastal environment. It also
aimed at creating an effective road map for the coordination of multi-nation
operations to overcome regional security issues. Another objective was to create deepening
partnerships and framework for international and regional cooperation at all
levels- strategic, operational or inter-agencies. Among the topics discussed were the NN
operations and projections for advancing information sharing towards overcoming
criminality at sea; counter-piracy operations within the Gulf of Guinea. Using
a cooperative approach to better understand the methods for dealing with piracy
threats offensively and proactively; developing the long and short-term
capacity building initiatives to better control regional waters; identifying
the immediate requirements of the regional navies, coast guards and law
enforcement in securing the seas; curbing illegal, unregulated and unreported
fishing; identifying the programs necessary to support local fisheries while
blocking foreign vessels from industrial trawling and strengthening
inter-ministerial efforts in combatting IUU. The Nigerian Navy example Presenting a paper titled “highlight
of the NN operations and projections for advancing information sharing towards
overcoming criminality at sea,” Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice
Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas highlighted the multi-pronged approach adopted by the
Nigerian Navy to achieve reduction in crude oil theft, illegal bunkering,
piracy and other maritime crimes within the country’s waters comprising its
200nm Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), in line with the United Nations Convention
on Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and another 350nm extended continental shelf the
nation had initiated process of claiming. He said frequent abuse through illicit
activities of local and foreign collaborators has continued to buoy concerns
especially because these illegalities are mainly targeted at the economic
lifeline of member states, thus fuelling wide-scale poverty. The CNS told the gathering how the NN
introduced independent anti-crude oil theft and anti-piracy operations;
partners sister security agencies and maritime stakeholders in the country
which birthed the Harmonised Standard Operating Procedure (HSOP) on arrest,
detention and prosecution of maritime offenders and most recently, the
Suppression of Piracy and other Maritime Offences Act, 2019 signed by President
Muhammadu Buhari, to serve as strategic deterrence to would-be criminals within
the nation’s maritime environment and curtail the excesses of syndicates that
continue to profit from sponsoring acts of piracy within the GoG. “The Act also demonstrates the
government’s resolve to enforce maritime law within the region towards changing
the global negative perception of the GoG as a haven for insecurity. To ensure
wide dissemination of such legal and operational instruments, the NN convenes
maritime stakeholders forum periodically. Specifically, the CNS mentioned a recent
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on white shipping the NN entered into with
the Indian Navy as well as her expression of interest to join the Indian Ocean
Naval Symposium (IONS) in addition to the Italian based Trans-Regional Maritime
Network, which she joined in 2015. To further her reach, Ibas said NN
recently participated in the establishment of a mechanism for sharing maritime
information with regional navies and regulatory agencies at the Maritime Trade
Information Sharing Centre in Ghana. He advocated more sustained presence at
sea and increase exchange of critical information between regional maritime
partners and stakeholders for security of the maritime domain, adding that the
navy intends to leverage such an audience to strengthen discussions with
regional partners regarding a sustainable collaboration in joint operations and
information sharing to guaranteeing the security of the maritime environment of
the GoG,” he added. Emerging threats, Ibas attributed to the
dynamic nature of criminals operating within the environment, calling for a
more diligent record and data capturing of the identity of criminal
perpetrators. “Sadly, lack of adequate database on
identified criminals has allowed perpetrators of maritime crimes to relocate
from one country to the other without being identified easily. Some persons who
have been convicted for maritime crimes on completion of their jail terms have
resumed their criminal activities in other countries unnoticed. “This gap within the West African sub-region
needs to be given more attention and addressed. Clearly, with improved database
and information sharing on persons prosecuted for maritime crimes, it would be
easier to track and apprehend such persons, should they continue to live in a
life of crime. “Although language has continued to pose
some challenge on sharing information within the navies across West Africa,
member states, particularly my Anglophone brothers would need to put more
effort to ease communication for improved maritime security within the region. “Inadequacy and the limited presence of
naval assets at sea also hamper the enabling of maritime information gathering
and sharing. Though the NN has in recent years renewed her fleet with new
acquisitions, the fact remains that the ships are not enough to maintain a
continuous presence as required to dominate the maritime space of interest. This inadequacy has resulted in
information and response gaps making it difficult to acquire a holistic picture
of the environment needed to share with relevant users. “As part of the effort to overcome this
challenge, the NN has resorted to local shipbuilding efforts to increase the
size of her fleet. Other countries within the sub-region could key into the
NN’s shipbuilding effort to expand their fleets to move at a common and
consistent pace within the sub-region. “These strategic partnerships have the
potential to further increase NN’s domain awareness across the Atlantic and
Indian Oceans, with a positive impact on surveillance capacity to facilitate NN
policing duties. To consolidate the gains of the Maritime Domain Awareness
(MDA) project, the NN in collaboration with the US Government recently
established a regional MDA Training School for joint training of personnel of
the NN and other navies of the GoG. This is to steadily improve capacity for
gathering and sharing of vital information to enhance collective response to
security challenges at sea. Considering the transnational and
migratory nature of these maritime crimes there is also the need for even more
regional and international collaboration to boost maritime law enforcement, he
said. The Nigerian Navy has also played its big
brother role well in the maritime domain of the GOG by championing the
strengthening of international collaborations for collective combating of the
challenges in the global commons. Ibas noted that the NN in concert with
other regional navies has instituted measures to check migratory crimes as
stipulated by the Yaounde Declaration of 2013 which adopted an inter-regional
Code of Conduct for inter-navy cooperation between Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) and Economic Community of Central African States
(ECCAS) States. “Accordingly, the NN and navies of
ECOWAS Zone E and the Gendarmerie of Niger Republic recently endorsed an MoU
for combined patrol of their common maritime domain. There has also been
increased collaboration between the NN and navies from other partner nations to
boost synergy in addressing illegalities within the GoG. “For instance, the NN-led regional
maritime exercises like the International Sea Exercise OPIA TOHA in 2016 and
Exercise EKU KUGBE in May 2018. Other annual exercises like the USA led
OBANGAME EXPRESS and the French organised Navy Exercise for Maritime Nations
(NEMO) also help to build regional capacity/cooperation for information sharing
and maritime law enforcement in the GoG. “A combined law enforcement operation
code-named Operation JUNCTION RAIN was also hosted by the NN in April 2019.
Operation JUNCTION RAIN brought on board various Nigerian maritime stakeholders
and US Navy/Coastguard ship in partnership with remarkable results. Ghana’s efforts With just 10 ships in its fleet, a
downgrade of the 16 warships it had 60-years-ago, the Ghanaian Navy said it was
poised to recapitalise its fleet to maintain total freedom at sea. Already, the
country’s Vice President Dr Mahamudu Bawumia who was represented by Defence
Minister Dominic Nitiwul said plans were underway for the acquisition of two
Offshore Patrol Vessels (OPVs) as well as the construction of a $200million
Forward Operating Base (FOB). Like other speakers, the Vice President
acknowledged the conference was evidence of the need to foster collaboration
among all stakeholders in the maritime sector locally, regionally and globally
because the threats to maritime security and safety transcend borders and have
the propensity to affect international trade. According to him, Africa’s quest for a
Continental Free Trade Area cannot be successful without a secured maritime
domain because 39 of the 55 African Union member states are coastal states. “This means as Africa mobilises to navigate the future together now through
the 2050 Africa Integrated Maritime Strategy, interagency cooperation as well
as joint and combined collaboration among land, sea and air forces in Africa
and beyond would be integral to the achievement of this vision.
“Technology will take a centre stage in all of this unity of effort.
Currently, technological solutions have made it possible to have seamless
information sharing through the Maritime Multinational Coordination Centers as
part of the ECOWAS Integrated Maritime Strategy. “It is thus perfect to have this
large gathering of solution providers, experts, researchers, regulators and
players in the maritime industry, militaries and coast guards as well as
ministries with responsibility for maritime security, transport and related
activities. “The offshore oil and gas sector with
its associated industries contribute an increasing share to the GDP of Ghana
and this will see a significant increase as we seek to discover new deposits
from the numerous oil and gas explorations offshore. “The fishing industry despite its
challenges continues to employ about 10 per cent of the Ghanaian populace
accounting for up to 60 per cent of the protein intake of Ghanaians. Therefore
protecting the maritime domain of Ghana is intrinsic to the agenda for a Ghana
beyond aid,” he said. Ghana’s CNS  Rear Admiral Seth Amoama in his keynote
address told the gathering that the overarching goal of Ghana Navy’s plan was
to improve on the security of Ghana’s maritime domain. “The intention is to position the
navy to be able to continue conducting operations across the spectrum of its
roles and responsibilities, within the context of constantly evolving maritime
threats…Ghana Navy should be able to sustain an increased operational tempo
and maintain a capability to answer any call to duty. “To be able to do this, attention will be
paid to the following, among others; total surveillance coverage of Ghana’s
maritime domain including presence at sea with ships of high endurance; develop
world-class training institutions; enhance operational availability of ships
and well-trained crews; collaborate with land and air forces as well as civil
authorities; enhance our cooperation with regional and international partners.” Way forward Commander Special Taskforce on Boko Haram
Maj.Gen. Gadzama Ali believes synergy amongst the region’s security agencies
particularly their military services was the only way forward to contain
illegal activities. “Nations within the Gulf of Guinea
need to focus on enhancing tri-service capability for effective joint
operations in the region as obtained in advanced nations if the threats posed
by illegal activities in the GoG is to be nipped. This can be achieved through
joint training within each nation’s tri-services and extending the same to
joint training, seminars, conferences and exercise,” said Ali. Vice President of Paramount Group Eric Ichikowitz advocated the need for
partnerships to create indigenous and regional naval capabilities that will
bolster local manufacturing, skills development and technology transfer. To him, African countries must not allow
conventional impediments stand in their way, adding that insufficient funds,
inadequate infrastructures or human resources can be solved by adopting
portable manufacturing which promotes localisation, technical and operational
training programs for skills transfer and indigenous capacity, as well as
innovative financing structures to enable the countries and regional
organisations create their manufacturing industries to meet these growing
requirements. “As an African company with deep
roots in this continent, and with a philosophy and business model built on the
shared aspirations of the African people to assert their sovereign
independence, human dignity, and socio-economic development, Paramount Group
has to be forward-looking in its innovation and solutions to current and
evolving threats to the security and well-being of Africa. “This conference comes at an
opportune time for all of us who are involved in promoting the security of
Africa’s vital and legitimate interests, to put our heads together and share
thoughts on how we should be thinking about the challenges that lie ahead. “That is our shared responsibility.
We cannot wait for the problems to manifest themselves, or become too big for
us to handle, before asking ourselves what we are going to do about it. We have
to be doing that right now, and this conference offers us an ideal platform for
such a meeting of minds… “Never before has the demands faced
by navies to secure shipping lanes, oil platforms, coastlines, fishing
industries and the natural resources of the seas been more significant. Given
all of these challenges, we firmly believe that governments in the region
should be prioritising increased collaboration with the private sector to
bolster both domestic innovation, economic development and national security. “We believe the defence industry has
an obligation to support governments in the region by developing sustainable
industrial partnerships that deliver technologically sophisticated but
affordable and most importantly- indigenous maritime solutions. “What is clear to us is that Africa
will never be in a position to take its destiny in its own hands until it can
provide for its security, and create a stable environment for its nations and
their Pipeline security firm Ocean Marine
Solutions’ (OMS) boss Rear Admiral Ameen Ikioda (rtd) said his company was
already partnering the Nigerian Navy in providing security to their clients. “We are into
pipeline security, we carry out maintenance and security for pipelines. Mostly,
we use the Navy and operation Delta Safe personnel. We have also developed
capacity. Every country strives to develop her capacity like you know the NN
has built two of their vessels and we hope too that in the very near future
instead of going outside to buy vessels for our operations, we can go into
partnership with the NN Dockyard for them to build vessels for our use,”
he said.