The President of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Super Eagles of Nigeria for their resilience and eventual victory against South Africa to get to the semi-final stage of Nations Cup. Buhari shared his congratulatory message after the victory on Wednesday even as he hopes that the three times African champions will go ahead to win the Nations cup with two more victories. “Congratulations to the Super Eagles on a well-deserved victory over South Africa, tonight. You represent the resilient and indomitable Nigerian spirit. “Two more victories, and the coveted Trophy will come home to us. All Nigerians are looking forward eagerly,” the President shared on his tweeter handle @Mbuhari Also, former Vice President and the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential Candidate for the 2019 polls, Atiku Abubakar has also join Nigeria to celebrate the senior national team for progressing to the semi-finals of the Nations Cup. “Congratulations @NGSuperEagles. Great play. Now we are successfully one step away from playing for gold. We are solidly behind you all the way, #NGARSA #TotalAFCON2019″ he tweet on @Atiku William Troost-Ekong scored a dramatic late winner to send Nigeria into the Africa Cup of Nations semi-final at the expense of South Africa. Samuel Chukwueze hit the opener as he controlled Alex Iwobi’s cross, before scoring at the second attempt. Bongani Zungu equalised with a header initially ruled out for offside before VAR replays showed a free-kick hit a Nigerian player on the way to him. READ ALSO: UPDATED: AFCON 2019: Super Eagles fly to semi-finals But Udinese’s Troost-Ekong bundled home from close range late on to win it. His finish was into an empty net after goalkeeper Ronwen Williams totally missed Moses Simon’s corner. Nigeria face Ivory Coast or Algeria in Sunday’s second semi-final (20:00 BST). The Super Eagles were deserved winners and led through Villarreal youngster Chukwueze’s first goal for his country. They should have been ahead by more when Williams pushed Peter Etebo’s free-kick onto the bar. Zungu’s goal was the first in the Africa Cup of Nations given by the VAR, which has just been introduced for the quarter-finals. It looked offside initially but Percy Tau’s free-kick hit Nigeria’s Odion Ighalo on the way on to Amiens midfielder Zungu’s head. The game looked set for extra time before Williams flapped at a cross to leave Troost-Ekong with a simple finish. Senegal, who beat Benin 1-0 earlier on Wednesday, play either Madagascar or Tunisia in the other semi-final. 