An Egbe-Idimu Customary Court, on Thursday in Lagos dissolved a 16-year-old marriage between a mother of four, Mrs Fatimot Adeniyi and her husband Afeez over irreconcilable differences. The petitioner, Afeez, had approached the court to end his marriage accusing his wife of infidelity. Delivering his ruling, the President of the Court, Mr Akwe Alfred, held that since the petitioner insists on divorce even after several interventions, the court was left with no option other than to grant him his wish. “The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Afeez and Fatimot Adeniyi dissolved. Both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife. “Each of you should go on his or her separate ways unmolested, the court wishes both of you well in your future endeavour. “All the four children should be in custody of their mother while Afeez must be paying N20, 000 monthly for their feeding and must also be responsible for their education and general welfare. “The petitioner is to rent a decent accommodation for the respondent and the children within three months from the day of the judgment, evidence of renting an apartment should be presented to the court for verification.” Alfred ordered the petitioner to give the respondent N20,000 to treat her leg which got injured during one of their fights. The president held that any violations of the judgment would be regarded as contempt of court and would attract imprisonment without option of fine. The president added that any aggrieved party should appeal against the judgment within the next 30 days. Earlier, Afeez, accused his wife of being  ”wayward and promiscuous”. “My wife is having an affair with a particular man called Yusuf. She cooks for him. “End this marriage, I do not love her again, I have married another wife, please, grant me the custody of our children,” he said. Responding to the allegations, the respondent, Fatimot denied all the allegations saying her husband was jealous. “My husband is the jealous type, he also suspects every movement. “I am not dating that man. I only go there to help and take care of his children because he is a widower.” The 35-year-old cleaner said that her husband turned her into a punching bag. “My husband beats me on any slight provocation, the last beating resulted in an injured leg, I can no longer walk properly, I now limp.”, she said.”  ((NAN)