Information Technology (IT) experts and stakeholders in the Communication Ministry and information communication technology (ICT)-related sectors at the weekend, in Lagos, warned internet users to be wary of what they do online. They spoke at the Nigeria Internet Governance Forum 2019, which had Enabling digital commonwealth for development as theme. The Executive Vice Chairman, NigerianCommunication Commission(NCC), Prof Umar Dambatta, represented by Chidi Diugwu, recalled that the Internet Governance Forum was established in July 2006 for policy dialogue on issues and programmes that shape the evolution and use of the internet. “However, to achieve an efficient and effective identification of potential challenges, implementation of policies and functional stakeholder engagement, there was a need to domesticate the activities and benefits of the Global Internet Governance Forum (GIGF). This is carried out through both the regional African Internet Governance Forum (AfIGF) and the sub-regional West African Internet Governance Forum (WAIGF),” he said. During the panel session,  experts urged internet users to be mindful of what they post online to ensure their safety. Issues deliberated upon include Cybersecurity and Trust: Enabling People-centered data protection and privacy regulations during the session. The Director, Cybersecurity,  National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Dr Dimie Wariowei, said what is uploaded online could be used for criminal acts. He said people use digital means to transact businesses, accessing banking through their mobile phones daily. He said there were a lot of challenges associated with such actions, hence, users had to be careful. Representative of the Federal Ministry of Justice, Mr Emmanuel Edet,  said personal data protection was key to being safe online. Edet said there were different laws in the country that protect people’s data, hence, should be leveraged for full benefit. He said personal data should be protected so that they would not be misused by others. The Ministry of Communication said ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of government would partner with stakeholders in ICT to curb the loss of billions of naira to importation of technology by ensuring digital inclusion for local internet initiative. Its Permanent Secretary,  Istifanus Musa Mik Fuktur, represented by the Director of ICT at the Ministry, Moni Udoh, said the Ministry, in conjunction with other parastatals, especially the NITDA, was set to curb  loss to technology importation. She said the target was to ensure digital inclusion for local internet initiative through education by discussing ways the internet can be used to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).