The agony of students living in halls of residence at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) is always exacerbated, especially during the hot weather. Students dread meningitis, among others, which they say is rife during this period, ABDULLAH TIJANI, a 300-Law student of UDUS, reports. Muhammad Dauda, a final year Microbiology undergraduate of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) is a resident of Jubril Aminu Hostel (Block A). He could not withstand the problem in his hostel. His room lacks enough ventilation. He repeatedly wiped his sweat with his underwear. He had to move his mattress outside and use a hand fan before he could sleep. Later, Abdulrasheed Adeshina, another resident, who also passed the night outside, noticed an insect struggling to climb onto Dauda’s bed. With a torch, Abdurasheed moved closer to identify the object. He was shocked to find out that it was a scorpion. “When I saw something creeping on the bed, I thought it was an ant at first, then I tried to light the torch of my phone and I realised it was a scorpion trying to bite his (Muhammad) leg before I kicked it away and killed it. I was the one who rescued the guy,” Abdulrashhed, a 300-Level student, told CAMPUSLIFE. Abdurasheed noted that the spot where the scorpion was killed is a  students’ rendezvous for relaxation. “I sleep there (outside the hostel)  because there is no alternative. The scorpion and other dangerous insects may come or not; but the heat inside is not a probability. The danger inside the room is that one might be infected with meningitis, which we are more certain of, especially in Sokoto,” Abdurashhed added. Dauda’s case is just one out of hundreds of UDUS’ students who have formed the habit of passing the night outside their hostels, as they cannot bear the conditions of the hostels. Abdurasheed may be right on his fear of meningitis as a possible danger. Over the years, meningitis has been  claiming lives in Sokoto State. For instance, in April, Sokoto State Commissioner for Health Dr Balarabe Kakale, recounted how death from the meningitis epidemic rose to 41. The figure, according to him, is from the 600 confirmed cases in the eight worst-hit local governments in the state. Threat of meningitis Because of its geographical location, Sokoto has a yearly average temperature of 28.3 °C (82.9 °F). In 2010, the city’s temperature skyrocketed to 47.2 °C (117.0 °F), which is the highest recorded temperature in Nigeria. This record made the city the hottest in the country and arguably one of the hottest in the world. Between April and June yearly, the temperature in Sokoto city increases to its peak, ranging between an average temperature of 40°C and 44°C. To survive the hot weather and subdue the heat, settlers stay indoor more, supposedly to avoid the outside temperature, while steering clear of reptiles that are also seeking shelter from the hot weather. But the reverse is the case for students of UDUS as most of their rooms are no longer conducive. “I feel unhappy and uncomfortable. The situation in the room is very unfavorable,” lamented another victim, Abdulakeem Abdullahi, a 300-Level Chemistry Education undergraduate. Abdulakeem knew how hot Sokoto weather could be; he had therefore earlier arrived the school to arrange for his convenience ahead of resumption in February, this year. Abdulakeem came as early as October to do the clearance for the bed space allocated to him and in the process drew the authority’s attention to the technical and electrical appliances in his room. Abdulakeem also complained about the absence of fan, which the officer promised to install before the February resumption.  Thereafter, the hostel officer asked him to pack into his room. Surprisingly when he eventually resumed in January, Abdulakeem met the room in the same condition he had left it more than three months ago. Abduakarrem eventually gave up after series of unsuccessful efforts to get the fan and other items installed. “He (hostel porter) directed me to the maintenance office, and that office did do nothing as there was no fan in my room. I came back to meet the porter who promised to do something before we resumed fully. That was in October. When I came back in February, there was still no fan. I went back to the maintenance and nothing happened. I went to the porter and they asked me to write an application requesting for a new fan. After I submitted the application, he said they would come and fix the fan, but until now nothing has happened. “Also the hall governor, who is in charge of our block came and asked if we have fan. We told him we don’t have and he wrote the number of our room as if he had some miracle to perform. But until this moment, nothing has been done. “The room members are sleeping outside. It is better to take a risk than sleep in the room. One cannot bear too much heat in the afternoon.” Students Union intervenes Special Adviser to the Students’ Union President on Media and Publicity Mr Muhammad Bashir, explained to CAMPUSLIFE efforts by the SU in addressing the challenges. Bashir said having realized that workers in the maintenance unit are indifferent towards their plight, they have taken their matter to the management. “We had issue with the maintenance section that promised to repair fans but will not show up. Students are complaining that there are lots of tripping lights and absence of fans in some rooms. That’s why we lodged a complaint to the maintenance office. “The present administration had a meeting with the maintenance and we had a productive discussion. The maintenance has thereby promised to fix all the light and fans in the hostel.” Is management aware? It has been an issue of doubt whether the university management is actually aware of what the students are going through. And who knows whether the non-availability of fans in the students’ rooms is an agony that never goes beyond the maintenance table. The Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), Prof Aminu Mode, reassures that the ‘maintenance’ officer in charge is working to repair whatever fault still lingers. Said Mode: “If you check the maintenance officers, you will see that they have started work. So, sooner or later, they will get the fans. “The students cannot tell us what to do. If they have any problem, they should just report it, not that they will be asking us for a new fan. They should just report their problems and when it is time, the university will do the needful,” Mode added.