The International Republican Institute (IRI) has been hailed for strengthening the capacity of women and youths in governance in Sokoto State, by deepening its support for the creation of advocacy groups to impact in service delivery. The institute, which is backed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), is encouraging active participation of marginalised groups in governance through advocacy groups, such as civil society organisations and political parties. Speaking to reporters in Sokoto, the spokesperson for the advocacy groups, Maryam Ahmed Rufa’I, said they are working in concert with political parties, traditional and religious leaders to increase and widen political and economic opportunities for vulnerable groups, particularly women and youths. Rufa’i said vulnerable groups in the state are being encouraged to participate actively in the political process, adding that their views and opinions were sought on the impact of government policies on their lives. She said the advocacy groups, which are supported by IRI and USAID, are trying to create more understanding about the role of political parties in the governance process, as well widen their chances of being elected and appointed into political offices. Rufa’I also expressed her desire for more interventions from the state government and the various political leaders towards addressing critical issues of exclusion and economic despondency among women and youths. She also sought for more attention in the enforcement of laws protecting and promoting the rights of women and youths, as well as those with disability. She said funds will be provided for mobilisation and capacity building activities for women and youths in the state through the relevant ministries. The spokesperson for the groups said there is also the need to increase empowerment schemes and vocational training opportunities for women and youths at the local government level. The groups applauded Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal’s resolute stand for appointing women an youths in different capacities as commissioners and Special Advisers and Assistants in his first and second term in office.