The Lagos State government has renewed its vow to deliver on its promises in the housing sector, not withstanding setbacks by vandalisation of some ongoing housing projects in the state. A statement by the Public Affairs Director, Lagos State Ministry of Housing, Adeola Salako, quoted the Permanent Secretary Akewusola, who during an inspection of ongoing housing schemes in Ibeshe, Igbogbo, Agbowa, OdoOnosa and Ayandelu, said the state was committed  to meeting the housing needs of the people.  He promised to forge ahead in delivering on the mandate in spite of setbacks, “especially the looting of some of the projects by miscreants”. He also called on community leaders and residents of adjourning properties to assist in securing government’s investment in some of the ongoing housing projects in the state, adding that the security of the housing schemes, constructed with taxpayers’ money, should be a joint venture between the people and the government. He stressed  that the  policing of these housing schemes is best done by the immediate communities because of proximity and superior knowledge of the terrain of the area. Akewusola decried the situation whereby uncompleted houses were vandalised, electricity transformers cannibalised and electric poles removed in some schemes.” ‘’It is sad that some unscrupulous individuals would vandalise or loot projects initiated for public good,’’ he said. Akewusola further revealed that some criminals have embarked upon illegal sand mining activities in some ongoing projects around Ikorodu thereby endangering the land structure of the area. ‘’Extensive illegal sand digging activities are being perpetrated by some people in Igbogbo 2B Scheme thereby damaging the land,’’ he disclosed. He lamented the economic loss to be incurred from these untoward actions of the miscreants and the setbacks that would result from their activities. “The replacement of these items and restoration where applicable will definitely have huge financial implications and result in delaying the delivery of those homes to their prospective owners,’’ he said. He enjoined community leaders and residents to take interest in being vigilant over these schemes by offering information to security agents, pleading immediate report of any suspicious persons or unlawful incident to the police or any government security agents. The Permanent Secretary also confirmed government’s readiness to deliver on its mandate in providing high quality shelter for the people in spite of setbacks. ‘’The commitment of the state government in meeting the shelter demands of the people is unwavering, hence we are working out strategies to keep vandals and hoodlums out of the ongoing schemes. We will also step up our monitoring activities to ensure that nefarious activities are completely eradicated,” he said.