Consumers who have been on bated breath can now heave a sigh of relief as the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control [NAFDAC] finally succumbs to pressure to suspend the implementation of the new tariffs which came into effect on 1st June, 2019. This is coming on the heels of the recent marathon stakeholders forum and meeting of the agency’s governing council recently at the agency’ Lagos office, Isolo. It was resolved that all NAFDAC stakeholders affected by the new tariffs will henceforth revert to payment of the old tariffs until further notice. The agency, which had announced a price hike in its tariff some weeks ago but had to temporarily suspend it on June 20th, due to the stiff opposition it met from its stakeholders and the public, issued a statement  that it will take a final decision on the price hike after a meeting with its stakeholders on June 25th. The stakeholders had alleged that they were not involved in the first meeting where the regulatory agency decided to effect over a 200 per cent increase in the price of its tariff. The meeting which lasted well over five hours with all the key stakeholders in attendance witnessed occasional bouts of aggression from some of the stakeholders, especially the consumer activists present who vowed to resist all attempts by NAFDAC to increase the price of tariff. Addressing the press immediately after the meeting, chairman of NAFDAC Governing Council, Hon. Inuwa Abdul-Kadir,  said the status quo remains while NAFDAC will continue to dialogue with all the concerned stakeholders on the tariff review and other regulatory issues. According to him, the suspension of the new tariffs was borne out of NAFDAC’s avowed commitment to the promotion of the growth of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country. Speaking with The Nation, the Executive Secretary of the Consumer Rights Project, Onu Eke Uche, described the decision to rescind on the hike as a welcome development. “It would have been disastrous if NAFDAC had insisted on going ahead with that increased price hike as it would have brought an increase in the price of goods and drugs in the market. “Consumers must be involved when policies of this nature want to be made because they will be directly affected. One cannot afford to ignore them because anything that affects consumer affects the economy. It is good that NAFDAC involved the stakeholders in taking this decision now instead of what they usually do,” noted the consumer activist. Reacting to the news of the suspension of the tariff hike finally, the immediate past president of the Association of Master Bakers and Caterers of Nigeria, Lagos Chapter, Prince Jacob Adejorin, said he congratulates NAFDAC and the government for that decision. “It is a welcome relief for all businesses and consumers. When we first heard of the price hike we became afraid and confused because we know we cannot pass that cost to the price of bread as most consumers will look for an alternative to bread. “Thank God that wisdom prevailed at last because most bakeries and other businesses would have closed down with many people becoming jobless,” he added.