Everyone has a birth day. But for some twice-lucky people, their birthdays fall on days set aside for public holiday, religious festivals or days that coincide with significant events in their lives. Below are some celebrities whose birthdays fall on special days or have extra significant issues that make their birthdays memorable. Dapo Abiodun Governor Dapo Abiodun, the executive governor of Ogun State, is a major player in the oil and gas sector. He was born on May 29, 1960. Incidentally, he won the governorship election of Ogun State in the recently concluded general election and was sworn-in as the fifth executive governor of the state on May 29 like his elected counterparts in other states. Olu Falae The abduction of former Secretary to the Federal Government (SFG) and former presidential candidate of the defunct Action Congress (AC) by herdsmen on September 21, 2015, by a twist of fate, coincided with his 77th birthday. The elder statesman was born on September 21, 2015. Chioma Ajunwa Chioma Ajunwa is better known as the first black African woman to win an Olympic gold medal in a field event than for her day job as a senior officer in the Nigeria Police Force. Ajunwa, an assistant commissioner of police, was born on Christmas Day, Dec 25. David Oyelowo British-Nigerian actor, David Oyelowo, marks his birthday on April 1, the day set aside worldwide for great fun, where people make a fool of one another. Oyelowo, also a director, producer, and screenwriter was born in Oxford, the United Kingdom. Theophilus Adeleke Akinyele Many people would wonder whether Chief Theophilus Adeleke Akinyele, a former Director of Budget and Special Adviser on Budget Affairs to President Shehu Shagari between 1979 and 1983, only celebrates his birthday once in every four years. Reason? He was born on February 29, 1932; a day that only comes up on the calendar once in every four years. Agbani Darego Born on December 22, 1982, in Abonema, Rivers, Darego is one of Nigeria’s most famous beauty queens and models. She became popular after winning the Miss World crown. She was the first African to win the pageant. Her birthday falls on a Judaism festival call the Chanukah. Sophie Okonedo Sophie, an English film, theatre and television actress, was born on New Year’s Day, January 1, 1969, in London to a British mother and a Nigerian father- who we heard left the family when Sophie was still quite young. In 2004, Sophie Okonedo was nominated for an Oscar – in the category “Best Supporting Actress” – for her role as Tatiana in the movie “Hotel Rwanda.” Damishi Sango Damishi Sango was born on New Year’s Day, January 1, 1950 in Ganawuri, in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. He was appointed Nigerian Minister of Sports in the first cabinet of President Olusegun Obasanjo, holding office between June 1999 and January 2001. Abdullahi Ibrahim Gobir Dr Ibrahim Abdullahi Gobir, born January 1, 1953 is a Nigerian politician who was elected Senator for Sokoto East, in Sokoto State, in the 9 April 2011 elections. He is a chartered engineer and a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical Engineers (UK) and of the Nigerian Society of Engineers Ahmed Muhammad Maccido Like David Oyelowo, Ahmed Muhammad Maccido, a former senator for Sokoto North constituency of Sokoto State, was born on April 1. Ehinomen Ehikhamenor Ehinomen Ehikhamenor, was born on April 1, 1980 in Benin City. He is a professional boxer from Nigeria who presently resides in Los Angeles, CA, who fights in the cruiserweight division. He fought 19 matches, won ‎15 and lost 4. Dr SID Popular Nigerian singer and song writer, Sidney Onoriode Esiri, popularly known as Dr Sid was born on International Workers’ Day, better known as May Day. Hakeem Kae-Kazim Hakeem Kae-Kazim, a British-Nigerian actor, Hakeem, is best known for his work in the Starz television series Black Sails and his portrayal of Georges Rutaganda in the 2004 drama film Hotel Rwanda. He was born in Lagos on October 1, Nigeria’s Independence Day. Bartholomew Ogbeche A Nigerian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Indian club Kerala Blasters FC, Ogbeche was born on October 1, Nigeria’s Independence Day. Bright Chimeze Chimezie, a hit-maker in his heyday, is the exponent of a music style which became known as Zigima Sound-a genre which became popular in the Eastern part of Nigeria in the early 1980s. He was born on Independence Day, October 1 Emmanuel Amuneke Amuneke is a Nigerian football coach and former player. He represented Nigeria at the 1994 World Cup. He was born on Christmas Day, December 25. Ogenyi Onazi Ogenyi Eddy Onazi, born on Christmas Day, 25 December 1992, is a Nigerian footballer who plays as a central midfielder for Turkish club Trabzonspor and the Nigeria national football team.