It was like a conversation with my childhood, a throwback to the days of innocence when television was rare furniture in every home. The children of today would never understand it that television set in a home was a luxury. As children, we had to pray to be sent on errands at some hours when particular plays or programmes were playing on television. It was an opportunity to escape house chores and join other children to watch; perhaps the more appropriate word here is to ‘peep’ at our favourite television sitcoms from privileged neigbour’s windows. That was long before the advent of the cheap Mexican novellas that today dominate our screens. As a child growing up in the north, we were not able to watch many of the plays that were Yoruba oriented until, I think, the mid-eighties or thereabouts that the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), as part of its efforts and deliberate plan to unite the country, introduced on its national platform plays from different parts of the country to be broadcast on the national belt. That was what led to the introduction of such programmes as Tambari (North), Icheoku (Southeast) and Kootu Asipa alternating with Baba Sala (Southwest) and some other ones. Before then, it was only when we travelled to the south during the long holidays that we had the privilege of watching these plays on television. It was through this that I got to watch Alhaji Kareem Adepoju, popularly known as Baba Wande, on television. He is a natural actor and one of the most enduring ones who have successfully transferred from the stage to film. I was in a friend’s office in Ogba last week when he was ushered into the office. I must confess that I was, perhaps for the first time in my life, star struck. It was the first time I was meeting him in flesh. All my encounters had always been on screen. Seeing him in flesh made me wonder how young he looks, especially in his French styled top and hat. I was further marvelled when I heard that he was eighty in April. He didn’t look it. Baba Wande was one of those who populated the Yoruba Travelling Theatre of old. As a journalist who started his career as an entertainment and arts reporter, it was humbling meeting the great thespian. However, the visit was so short that we couldn’t engage in much banters. This is a tribute to a great total man of theatre. …Restates commitment to Literature Prize On July 14, in this space, I asked: What happened to Etisalat literature prize? I am happy to report here that the piece has elicited a reply from 9mobile, the company that rose from the ashes of Etisalat. I am running the statement by Layi Onafowokan, Acting Director, Marketing, 9mobile, in full. It reads:  “Emerging Markets Telecommunication Services Limited (EMTS) wishes to reiterate its commitment to the development and promotion of talents and assures of fulfilling its commitment to the finalist of the 2018 edition of the 9mobile Prize for Literature. “The winner from the shortlist for the 2018 edition of the 9mobile Prize for Literature competition comprising What it Means When a Man Falls Down from the Sky by Lesley Nneka Arimah, a Nigerian; Stay with Me by Ayobami Adebayo, also a Nigerian; and Asylum by Marcus Low from South Africa, will be announced soon. “The Executive Management of 9mobile will like to sincerely thank all the eminent scholars that have served as the Patrons and Judges of the 9mobile Prize for Literature initiative for their excellent service over the years since the debut of this flagship literary Prize in 2013. “The 9mobile Prize for Literature, launched in 2013, is the first pan-African literary Prize that celebrates African first-time writers of published fiction. It is open solely to writers from African countries, resident anywhere in the world. Zimbabwe’s NoViolet Bulawayo won the inaugural edition of the prize in 2014 with We Need New Names, while South African novelist Songeziwe Mahlangu won with Penumbra in 2015. Fiston Mwanza Mujila from the Democratic Republic of Congo won in 2016 with Tram 83, and in 2017 Nigeria’s Jowhor Ile won for his first book And After Many Days.” This is heartwarming, we shouldn’t let our own die.