Covenant University (CU), Ota, Ogun State made history at the weekend when it  produced the Best Graduate Student with a perfect score. Miss Ajia Motunrayo Victoria from the Department of Petroleum Engineering emerged CU outstanding graduate with a cumulative grade point average of 5.0. This is the first time the university would be attaining such feat, the closest being the 2016 convocation where Deji-Folutile then 21, from the Department of Architecture, had 4.97 CGPA. Amid photo shots, Ajia mounted the podium to  deliver the valedictorian address amid congratulatory shouts from fellow graduates and parents. Substantiating Ajia’s  feats, Chancellor of CU, Dr David Oyedepo, said one of the secrets of excellence of the  17-year-old institution, is her determination to depart from the age-long myths to life-changing innovation. Speaking on the theme: ‘What makes CU unique‘, Oyedepo said the university was conceptualised to have a shift in thinking, values and action, as well as a result-oriented mindset towards addressing challenges peculiar to the black continent. Oyedepo said some of the institution’s custom-built programmes, such as the Total Man Concept (TMC), Entrepreneurial Development Studies (EDS), Leadership Development studies (LDS), and Towards Total Graduate (TTG), all emanated from CU’s core values meant to equip graduates with the weapon to be futuristic and entrepreneurial-driven. “As we say here at Covenant, ‘until one is transformed, he cannot transform his environment, society or nation’. This is why we focus on equipping the persons of our students, so they can continue to generate impact in their various vocations in life and that without prejudice to the pursuit of academic excellence.” Oyedepo attributed the meteoric rise of the university to committed funding. He lamented that the government is not looking at the future generations by upping funding for public institutions nationwide. “Our worst enemies today is corruption!” Oyedepo lamented. ‘This cuts across both private and public lives. So much is being wasted by our governments on things that I can describe as frivolous. “I keep saying that our governments should increase funding for public institutions. Who says our universities cannot measure up to other world-class universities elsewhere? African has got what it takes in terms of intellectual endowment. All we need do is complement this with infrastructure and conducive atmosphere. Unfortunately, we don’t have governments that are looking into the next generation.” National Universities Commission (NUC) Executive Secretary, Prof Abubakar Rasheed, who praised CU mandate for its ground-breaking efforts assured that the Commission would provide support for the 173 universities nationwide. Rasheed praised CU for translating its commitment to the development of tertiary education in Nigeria into action. In his keynote address, former Director of Business Environment, USAID Trade Hub, Accra, Ghana, Dr Monisoye Afolabi, noted that African continent, which is projected to have more population than China and Indiai In the not-too-distant future, must consolidate on her burgeoning population especially through investment in education.