Nine-year-old Joshua Agboola is building a healthcare app, ‘Jothehealthcarebot,’ that would help people diagnose sickness and diseases faster. Joshua, who revealed this at the seventh graduation and prize giving day of De-Joyland School, Yaba, said he has already created three websites, including his school’s and produced two other apps and a game, “Jobot”, a Maths  Game app, which is a friendly chatbot that communicates with you like a person and “balls and bombs game”. Talking about the healthcare application, he said: “Jothehealthcarebot is an assistant that helps with simple diseases – something like you type in ‘my child’s neck is bulging’, then it comes out that your child might be suffering from mumps or something.” Joshua, who hopes to study abroad to become a software engineer, started coding at the age of six.  He attended Co-Creation Hub coding classes before switching to home lessons. In his speech, titled: “Future of work”, Joshua said parents should encourage their children to be Information Technology compliant as in few years to come, those lacking IT skills will be out of job. Joshua, who graduated as the head boy, expressed mixed feelings about leaving the school. “I am graduating today; I am happy and also sad; different feelings. I would miss my school, but I am happy I am moving forward,” he said. Another graduating pupil, Ojusoluwa Olumo, expressed happiness about moving forward in his education.  “I feel very happy to be graduating to the next stage.  I thank the school for making me better.  They have made me go higher and higher; they have done so much for me,” he said. Proprietress of the school, Mrs Abimbola Osagie, in her address said the graduating set was special as some of the graduands were from the pioneer set. She also said the school was becoming more ICT compliant in pursuit of excellence. “Some of the graduating students started from the crèche and this makes this graduation special. They are the pioneer pupils of the school. We watched them from cradle to hero.  They have made us proud in various ways. “Our school has more gadgets now- four interactive boards, tablets for 21st century learning. We have introduced Computer Based Test (CBT), all geared towards raising future ready champions,” she said, adding that the school had done well in many competitions. Guest speaker at the event and Chief Executive Officer, Leading Learning Ltd, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, applauded the pupils for being smart and confident while praising teachers for their hard work.  She advised parents to be strong in training their wards. Mrs Adefisayo, who has been nominated as Lagos State cabinet member by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu,  said: “Seeing the children come out for their presentations and awards, I can see they are smart, confident, their academic performance is good, IT skills are high, they are good public speakers. Parents should be proud of them. “Teachers are the most selfless people, training children to be better than you. Teachers are nurturers; they rescue us from strange situations we have found ourselves in. “Parents should know that this is the beginning of another journey, you would see many changes in them. Support then, but do not be all over them,” she said.