Two men, 41-year-old Festus Femi a married father of two and a 51-year-old bursar of Government secondary school Dangara, Abaji- Abuja Luke Ekundayo, have been arrested by the National Agency for the Prohibition in Persons (NAPTIP) for raping seven teenage girls, ages 12-15. The first suspect Femi from Ondo states was arrested by members of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and handed to NAPTIP for raping six girls ages 12-15, including a 13 years old who attempted suicide after the incident. The victims where all lured to him by one of his victims, who had equally been raped by the suspect. The 51 years old Ekundayo from Ilorin, Kwara State is accused of drugging, raping and impregnating a 15 years old teenage student handed over to him for protection. Head, Press and Public Relations Unit of NAPTIP Stella Nezan made this known in a statement. She stated, “Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition in Persons (NAPTIP) have arrested a 41-year-old Festus Femi, an installation Engineer, for alleged rape of three school pupils of the same secondary school and at different occasions. “The suspect, who hails from Ondo State, is married with two children and lives in Bwari Area Council of Abuja. His wife and children live in Ondo State. He was apprehended by men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), and thereafter referred to NAPTIP for further investigations and prosecution. “The first victim, a thirteen (13) year old Junior Secondary 2 pupil in one of the secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory, lives with her parents in Bwari. The victim stated that she met Festus through her classmate, who asked her in school to escort her to Festus’ house, and claimed he was her uncle. On getting to the house, her classmate and Festus went out briefly, and on their return she told the victim that Festus wanted to have sex with her. The victim’s refusal and pleas of being a virgin fell on deaf ears. Mr. Festus turned the volume of the sound system very high and raped her in the presence of her friend. He further threatened to kill her if she tells anyone. This left the victim so distraught that she attempted suicide. “The second victim is a twelve (12) year old Junior Secondary 2 pupil who lives with her Aunt in Bwari. The same classmate took her to Festus’ house and told her that Festus wanted to have sex with her. On her refusal, Festus gave them money and told them to visit some other time. On a fateful day, she was on her way to her classmate’s house and met Festus on the way; he invited her to his house and raped her while she was waiting for her friend. “The third Victim, a fifteen (15) year old girl is the same person that introduced the other two victims to him. She stated that Festus was her former neighbour and each time he had sex with her, he gave her five hundred Naira. He also told her to bring girls for him and he would give her three thousand Naira. She stated that so far, she had brought 5 girls to him ranging from 12 to 15 years. She further corroborated the first victim’s story on the rape and threat to life. Continue on Page 2