WE are told that love suffers long and is kind; love does not envy; love does not parade itself; love is not puffed up; love does not behave rudely; love bears all things; love believes all things. Jealousy, according to Steven Vaughn, is simply insecurity. In the on-line dictionary, jealousy is defined as resentment against a rival, a person or enjoying success and advantage, or against another’s success or advantages itself. That is, jealousy in the working place area. The second type of jealousy relating to relationship is mental uneasiness from suspicion or fear of rivalry, unfaithfulness and so on as in love. Jealousy is a true sign of insecurity, not an act of love, only doubt on yourself and the significant other. No one can really define jealousy by its true meaning because it is different from one individual to the other giving their insight opinions on jealousy. When two people really care for or love each other, there should be no doubt. They truly love each other and if they leave you, then it wasn’t love in the first place and not worth the time spent. Jealousy is no sign of love but everything related to insecurity. Many people get jealous but no one can have the perfect relationship. You must love and know yourself before you can consider loving someone else. Jealousy is one of a human’s weaknesses, no one is perfect. Merriam Webster defines jealousy as ‘disposition, attitude or feeling’. Where the word ‘jealousy’ means intolerant of rivalry or unfaithfulness disposed to suspend rivalry of unfaithfulness, hostile toward a rival or one believed to enjoy an advantage, and vigilance in guarding a possession’. Jealousy people are unhappy, bitter and angry people who believe that someone is trying to take or has taken something or someone they love away from them. We all at one time or the other experience jealousy to one extent or another. It is human to feel possessive about the one you love or guard what you’ve worked so hard to attain, but it becomes a problem when it becomes a problem the motivating factor for how we respond to situations. There is need to pause and take a close look at ourselves. Jealousy, like a lot of other human emotions, is noted in fear, mostly in the fear of losing something or someone you love. So if you’re letting that fear rule you to the point that you are obsessed and paralyzed , there is a huge problem. I have witnessed throw of tantrums when a lover discovers that his or her partner is in anyway cheating on him or her. I have read about men pouring acid on a female just because she has decided to end the relationship. I have heard and seen women vow that over their dead bodies would they allow their lover go or leave them without a fight. I have listened to phrases like ‘if I can’t have him or her, nobody else will. A good acquaintance of mine had once sent me a text message, claiming that her husband locked her out of her matrimonial home just because she got home later that 9:30pm which was supposed to be her ‘deadline’ for getting home. This friend of mine even after five kids into the marriage can still be mistaken for a young spinster. Her colleagues, friends and bosses in her office look at her each morning she gets to work looking all cute and they say to her. Your husband must be a lucky man. People thought to themselves this paragon of beauty must surely be an asset to her man and her kids. My acquaintance was not only beautiful on the exterior but she also had a good heart. She was willing to help at every slight opportunity she had. People simply loved and adored her a hardworking lady, with five kids, a good job and does other businesses on the side, just to keep body and soul together. When she sent me the text message, my first reaction was why on earth would any sane man lock his wife out of their matrimonial home at such an hour? I was puzzled. In a bid to get to the root of what was up, I quickly rushed out of the house to recharge my phone. Thereafter, I put a call through to her. The reason she gave for her husband’s act was that he suspected her of cheating on him! The reason he gave for his obvious show of jealousy was that the wife closes for work by 6:30pm. He opined that two or three hours was enough to get her home. He had earlier vowed that anytime she got home later than 9:30pm, it would mean trouble for her. Can you beat that? I also have a married male friend of mine, who will call you as often as he finds the time to do so but as soon as he is closed for the day’s work and is headed home, right before he gets home, he would put a call through to all his female friends and plead and plead, did I say plead? He would warn that nobody should call him for whatever reason because the wife hates to hear him receiving calls from any female friend. Some women at whatever levels of their lives have been seen to fight furiously over the man or a man they claim to love. Ironical, isn’t it? I feel it ironical to beat up, threaten or fight or even attempt to blackmail someone you profess to love. Is love not supposed to be a beautiful thing? Do love and jealousy actually go hand-in-hand? Shouldn’t love be nurtured, cherished and valued? And if a partner decides to stop loving us or decides to move on, must we die for that individual? From my experience, it is okay to fall in love, love is not forced, it happens naturally. it is also okay to fall out of love. Yes, it is true people do fall out of love, but not for the married ones. For married ones, the love must last till the end of time. Remember, you have signed. Anyway, back to earlier question, when you exhibit jealousy, is it your way of showing your love for your spouse?