The perils of living in Idi Ori.
Residents battle reptiles, persistent flooding of their homes. A cloudy sky draws tears from Augustina Anaekwe. The 39-year-old single mother of four cringes at the sight of rain. If it rains, Anaekwe and her children call it a day. Every activity they might have lined up for the day gets cancelled for another unplanned, yet compulsory task: beating back surging tides of floodwater from their hovel in Idi Ori, a shantly settlement in Ajeromi Ifelodun Local Government Area (LGA) of Lagos State. That will be their activity for the rest of the day until the tide recedes. Likewise, for Akintayo Awe, a downpour does not come with good tidings. If it floods, he experiences great hardship keeping his valuables safe from the rainwater. The 53-year-old furniture maker, lives in a three-room apartment with his two wives and nine children, in Idi Ori. To protect his furniture, he raised his workshop on wooden stilts and disused automobile tyres. Such is the plight of residents of Idi Ori; whenever it rains in the shanty community, the residents are leftwhimpering for days and counting their losses. Recurrent flooding has rendered the community inhabitable for dwellers even as the tide threatens their lives and means of livelihood. The perils of overnight rain The rainy season brings no cheery news to Pa Gbolade Idowu, an ageing landlord of an eight-room self-contained bungalow. He welcomed the first rain of the year in tears. The front section of the perimeter fence protecting Idowu’s building caved ito the surge of torrential floodwater, in March, thereby increasing the vulnerability of his building to the fury of flood whenever it rains. Voicing his apprehension to the reporter, he said: “My tenants and I are preparing for the worst as we expect constant rain in the coming days. The fence I laboured to build to prevent floodwater from coming into my compound fell off in March after the first heavy rain we witnessed here in Idi Ori. “I don’t have the resources to raise another fence to protect my house again. We have been living at the mercy of flood. Now that we expect more rain, we are only hoping that we won’t get drowned,” he said. Corroborating him, Chris Nwokedi, Idowu’s tenant of five years, said none of his four family members has hadan hour’s sleep, since a rainstorm in May, flooded his apartment and destroyed his valuables. He said: “While many families were asleep, my wife, four children and I spent most of our night drawing back floodwater from our apartment. The chair and the rug spread in my sitting room got soaked. All electrical appliances in the house had to be disconnected before we were able to switch off the electricity source. “This problem started after the fence collapsed. We usually don’t feel happy whenever the sky gets cloudy at any time of the day. We particularly get disturbed when it is raining at night. We regularly hold prayers against night rain, because of the inconvenience we face in fighting back flood in our rooms.” A slum in a suburb Idi Ori has a peculiar topography. More than 60 per cent of houses in the area were built with planks; the rest are concrete structures. Sitting on a wetland, in the suburb of Ajeromi Ifelodun, the community is located at the tail end of Awodi Ora, another slum on the eastern flank of Ajeromi Ifelodun. A lengthy canal slices through the community, stretching from Maza-Maza in Amuwo Odofin area into the heart of Okoya in Ajeromi Ifelodun. The 18-feet-deep canal demarcates Idi Ori from Abule Onijanmo and Layeni Oke-Ira, which shares similar environmental challenges with it. Tucked in a badly planned estate, the Idi Ori slum lies within the flood plain and it is historically a swampland. According to the Village Head (Baale), Oluwafemi Matthew Akinwami, the community had been in existence for over one century, when migration swelled in the axis. However, the early dwellers left in droves, when their lives got threatened by perennial flooding characteristic of the landscape. “Our forefathers settled in this area as far back as 1918 and they lived here with other settlers until they started having flood problems. They all left to settle elsewhere until people started coming back in the 1980s,” explained Akinwami. At their arrival, the topography of the landscape changed, turning the area into a swampland. A surge in thepopulation of dwellers, however, manifested with a necessity to make the land resilient and capable of holdingconcrete and wooden structures. Residents started development efforts in the late 1990s by filling the swampland with municipal waste materials and sand, to accommodate buildings. As Idi Ori community evolved, common waste from neighbouring settlements became valuable to dwellers of the community. The entire landscape literally became a dumpsite, due to the usefulness of solid waste toresidents of the community. Some of the residents harnessed the topographical challenge to generate income, by collecting solid waste from cart pushers and trucks for a fee, which ranged from N200 to N400 per cart. As more settlers moved in, the solid waste collected was used to reclaim more land from the swampy stretch, in order to expand development. Some of these waste materials were piled up to a heap to prevent flooding whenever it rains. Clogged canal, choked drainage Aside from climatic reasons, there are other factors that make Idi Ori vulnerable to flood.First, the neighbourhood lacks well designed drainage to discharge wastewater from its innards. Where there are drainages, the channels are shallow and filled with impenetrable heap of garbage, which prevents free flow of wastewater. Indiscriminate dumping of garbage in Idi Ori has also resulted in the clogging of the canal designed to discharge wastewater away from the community into the lagoon. This has increased the risk of flooding in the area. Wastewater that ought to flow through the canal, gets stagnated in the community because of the problem. At the moment, the canal is covered in flourishing weed and a mass of non-biodegradable waste materials, which make effluent impassable. The dredging of the canal, Akinwami said, is long overdue. But, there is confusion among the community residents on whose duty is to dredge the canal between the state and local governments. Investigation showed that the canal was last dredged over 30 years ago, under the military administration of Col. Raji Rasaki (rtd). Subsequently, in 2007, the administration of former governor, Babatunde Fashola worked on the canal. However, Fashola’s government, said Akinwami, only cleared weeds in the canal. It wasn’t dregded. Akinwami said, “Even if the government comes and constructs drainage without dredging the canal, the problem will persist. The canal should be to the advantage of the community by collecting wastewater from the drainage. But the drainages we have don’t connect to the canal, and this is leading to the flood problem we have been experiencing.” Enter reptiles, deadly creatures Moses Bamigboye, a resident of Idi Ori, has lost count of the number of times he had battled reptiles in his bedroom, since March. A mud-spattered walkway separates his one-bedroom apartment from theblocked canal. After his first encounter with an alligator in his room, Bamigboye has been sleeping with one eye closed. Anytime he hears a strange noise from any corner of his room, he recoils in fear. His first son, Oluwatobi, was the one who saved the family from an episode that could have ended tragically. On the fateful day, the 11-year-old was playing with a lamp when he flashed its light on a green creature, leaning quietly against the wall. “It was my first son, who saw the reptile about 10:30pm. I was already asleep when he started shouting ‘lizard, lizard, lizard’. In confusion, I jumped out of the room and I saw him pointing to the wall. It was a fairly big alligator. It took a combined effort of my neighbours to kill the reptile. The shock from that incident prevented us from sleeping that night, because it could have been tragic,” said Bamigboye. Lack of pipe-borne, safe drinking water A dingy 1,000-litre water reservoir, resting on a corroded metal scaffold about five metres tall, can be seen at the entrance of the community. It is all that’s left of the borehole donated to the community by the government of Fashola. The government, in response to demands for potable water in the community in 2007, sank the borehole. The service of the government-controlled water corporation had never been extended to the community, leaving residents to depend solely on supplies from commercial water tankers and sachet water vendors for domestic use. When agitation for potable water got to the peak, the residents pooled resources  to connect the community to the state’s waterworks, thereby laying pipes from the nearest station to their homes. However, many years after they took the initiative, the Lagos State Water Corporation is yet to connect the community to safe drinking water channel, according to the residents. “The borehole was donated in 2007 with two reservoirs of 1,000 litres each. The water project is the only government’s project in Idi Ori. Aside that, there is nothing we can point that we benefitted from the government. Even the borehole could not end the water crisis that we have been experiencing in this place, because only two reservoirs were installed with the pumping machine to serve about 7,000 residents. “Besides, the lack of electricity and low capacity of the pumping machine limited the efficiency of the engine,” explained Akinwami. In no time, the borehole became dry of water due to the inefficiency of the pumping machine and residentsresorted to unsafe methods of getting water for domestic use, by patronising water vendors. Poor sanitation, festering diseases A swarm of flies hovered round Esther Malik while she ate from a soot-coated aluminum pot. But, she was not perturbed by the buzz of the rampaging insects. She sat, leaning on a vertical metal beam standing between the corridor of the squalid wooden house she resides and a general toilet. The stench of faeces permeated the environment, befouling the ambience. Although the entire surrounding visibly failed the test of hygiene, it was the right spot for Malik to eat. “I have no other option than to eat my food here. It has never affected me and I don’t think it would affect me. This is the reality we have had to lived with in Idi Ori,” she said. Stench oozing from the toilet and heaps of filth spread across the community. The situation suggested the absence of regular sanitation in Idi Ori over a long period of time. With no healthcare facility and access to safe drinking water in the community, residents live in foreboding of an epidemic, contractable as air and waterborne diseases. There is no gainsaying that an outbreak may take significant toll on the community, given that the only General Hospital in the area was built in Akere, a neigbouring community. Access to the health facility from Idi Ori is, however, limited because of bad road. Balogun of Idi Ori, Ishola Oluyege, captured the challenges the residents have had to bear on a daily basis. He said: “There are many challenges facing Idi Ori community, but the ones that are becoming a daily threat to our lives are the issue of clogged canal and lack of good drainage. Rain is seen as blessing in some other parts of the state, but here in Idi Ori, we see rain as a curse. We usually don’t pray for rain at any time of the day because of the flooding problems it will leave in the community. “We are living in fear every day. We are appealing to the state government to come and alleviate our suffering. They should not wait till the period our homes would be completely flushed away by flood. The community is part and parcel of Lagos, and residents are law-abiding. “Beyond the issue of canal and drainage, we also lack basic amenities, which are making life difficult for dwellers. We have written several letters to the government to bring healthcare facility into the community. We have not got any response. The nearest hospital is not accessible from here. Even the service of the hospital has been overstretched because of the number of patients it attends to on a daily basis. “We don’t want a situation we would be faced with life-threatening ailments and there won’t be hospital to go. Let them give us a healthcare centre in Idi Ori. We also want accessible roads in the community. If government can provide basic these amenities, our challenges would be half solved,” he said. Govt: ‘Idi Ori canal to be dredged in weeks’ Reacting to the request of the Idi Ori residents, the General Manager of the Office of Drainage Service (ODS) at the Ministry of Environment, Nurudeen Sodehinde, said, flooding is a challenge common to all Lagos communities. He said some of the flooding problems were caused by the deliberate blockade of water channels, resulting from human activities. Despite regular warning by the government against putting structures on water channels, Sodehinde said some residents flouted the order by commercialising setbacks and right-of-ways. While identifying with Idi Ori residents on the environmental situation in the community, he said, that, the Baale-Okoya canal which passes through the community will soon be cleared. Without giving a timeline for the exercise, the ODS boss promised that the dredging of the canal would be done in the coming weeks. He said: “Very soon, we will be mobilising our machinery to clear all of our primary, secondary and tertiary canals. This activity will be done in phases. In a matter of weeks, you will see our personnel on the field for the cleaning exercise across the state. “The Idi Ori community falls within Signal-Barracks Channel, which is one of the critical canals in our priority. We are dredging the canal completely, so that all the sediments preventing free flow of water through the channel will be removed.” On whether the state government would construct tertiary drainage in the community to channel wastewater to the main canal, Sodehinde said, it is the responsibility of local government to create tertiary drainage in their communities. He, however, said that ODS would be working in collaboration with local councils to intervene in provision of tertiary drainage in vulnerable areas. Idi Ori ripe for regeneration – Expert The inability of Idi Ori residents to discourage imposition of permanent building along right-of-ways and setbacks may have led to the flooding of the area, according to Lukman Oshodi, a town planning expert and Project Director of Arctic Infrastructure. He said, open spaces, which include right-of-ways, canal setbacks, residential and dump spaces, should have served as community assets towards flood management. He observed, that, the influx of people into the area led to the building of structures on open spaces, which made the community vulnerable to perennial flooding. Oshodi called for open space reconfiguration, noting that residents must make effort to construct proper drainages that would serve their dwelling. Creating a water discharge channels to the main canal, Oshodi said, would help residents in flood management. He said: “The community should discourage construction of permanent structures and open toilets along the canal stretch and government needs to move in, to evacuate sediments in the canal to allow for the free flow of water. Eroded sections of the canal should be reconstructed as a matter of urgency. “The community should also encourage regular environmental sanitation and clear the existing drainage of debris and silt. The canal and major surrounding drainage should be reconstructed based on the 2015 Lagos State Drainage Masterplan, which highlights these channels as secondary drainage system. The Ministry of Environment should also put a good maintenance strategy in place, and this strategy must be strictly adhered to.” Oshodi argued, that, Idi Ori is due for redevelopment, to improve the condition of living in the area. He said,residents whose houses are at risk of flooding should be relocated to prevent tragedy. He also suggested an incremental social housing approach to solving housing deficit among low-income earners.