A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Igbaye Development Vanguard (IDV), has commended the Osun State government over the renovation of some blocks of classes at the Igbaye Community High School (ICHS). The group, which membership cuts across all professions and spread across the world, said their mission is to give back to their community for nurturing them. Two of the IDV interim conveners, Dr. Sunday Alayemi and Mr Rafiu Adeoye Popoola said, “the main objective of our coming together is, among other things, to rekindle the lost lustre and interpersonal lovely relationship among ourselves,” adding “our immediate areas of concentration will be renovation of our joint public properties like schools, health centres, town hall, public utilities like toilets and post office, among others.” Alayemi said: “beside the renovation of a few dilapidated facilities in the town, the building of new ones like e-library, recreation centres and event halls is also in the pipeline.” He said the renovation of a block of Igbaye Community High School (ICHS), was jointly financed by the Vanguard members and Old students of the school. The group, he said, was able to contribute up N7.5 million to renovate one block of three classrooms, a staff room and an office last year. The effort, Popoola added, impressed the State Government, which promised to take over the renovation of the rest of the work. And true to its promise, the state took over the renovation and presently, four blocks of 13 classes are being renovated to the administration of Igbaye Community as well as the members of the Vanguard. “The government prompt intervention was a commendable step, describing the intervention as commendable and praiseworthy. The state administration of Governor Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola, who inherited the project from his predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, is a sensitive one to the yearnings of the citizenry. “The government has exhibited its real love for education and thus deserves to be given more support to do more for the citizenry,” Popoola said.