The All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar of felony, saying the PDP Presidential candidate has been carrying himself as an alternative President. The party reminded the former Vice President that the Nigerian constitution was clear on how to deal with criminalities, saying the present government will not be found wanting where it is required to take decisive actions. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu said in a statement late Tuesday that the PDP Presidential candidate has been making statements that are reserved for sitting Presidents or his appointed representatives on matters of national security and foreign policies. The APC also reminded him that the Nigerian constitution does not provide for a parliamentary system of government where you have, but a Presidential system where there can be only one President. He also reminded him that he has since lost the 2019/presidential election and should, therefore, wake to the realities on ground. The statement reads: ‘The All Progressives Congress (APC) strongly condemns the 2019 presidential candidate of the oppositions Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar who has now made it a pastime to make public statements on issues, which constitutionally should be reserved for the duly elected head of government or his designees. “As a Party, we would have thought that Alh. Atiku who in the past occupied such high office as the country’s vice president would clearly understand the workings of government, particularly as it bothers on national security, foreign policy and our international engagement. “We have noted Alh. Atiku’s incessant habits of releasing statements on public issues as if he were an alternative President of this country and with a clear intention to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC-led government. “In recent times, Alh. Atiku has demonstrated lack of regard for the sovereignty of the office of the President and Nigerian government through condescending statements. He has made several of such statements regarding the activities of the Nigerian military, issues of national security, and international relations. “The latest of such statements is the one he made on the emergence of Mr. Boris Johnson as Prime Minister of Britain even when our duly elected President, who has the responsibility of making an official statement on such matter, has made the position of our country known. “We note with serious concern that Alh. Atiku has been throwing himself around as a shadow President of Nigeria. We would like to state clearly that such position could only be found under the parliamentary system. It does not exist under the Presidential system of government that we practice in Nigeria. “Alh. Atiku, like every Nigerian citizen, should understand that being a candidate for an elective office, including that of the President, does not confer on him a sovereign status. Alh. Atiku’s continuous portrayal of himself as a shadow President under our system borders on felony and makes him a patent impostor. “There can only be one democratically elected and legitimate government at a time in this country. That clearly is the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. It is important to remind Alh. Atiku that issues of national security, foreign policy and international engagements are not matters to be exploited to achieve mischievous political ends. “We reiterate that Alh. Atiku has lost the 2019 presidential election and it would be unhelpful to him to continue to make a mockery of our country. We expect Alh. Atiku to quickly address himself to the stark reality of his loss and move on. “Our laws are clear on all acts of criminalities, in this case, a clear case of felony. Nigerians expect that the enforcement of relevant laws should apply to every Nigerian, irrespective of class and status. This government would not be found wanting where it is required to take decisive actions.” 