The  Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have called for more efforts to address the  challenges in the power sector. They also want other energy sources and ideas that will help to fix the problem explored. Manager, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs, NLNG, Andy Odeh, said the two organisations made the call at the Business Interactive Session on Innovation in Electric Power Solutions at the LCCI head office in Lagos. The session featured the 2018 winner of The Nigeria Prize for Science, Dr. Peter Ngene. The winner  clinched the prize based on his work: “Nanostructured metal hydrides for the storage of electric power from renewable energy sources and for explosion prevention in high voltage power transformers.” The  Prize is a $100,000 award sponsored by NLNG to promote innovations in science and technology that will solve age-long problems and drive development in Nigeria. The prize is awarded annually. The General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said the interaction session was as a result of The Nigeria Prize for Science which is increasingly shedding light on solutions to some of the nation’s problems which include electricity shortage. She said in recognition of the need to encourage more work in finding solutions to electric power generation in the country, NLNG used the  competition to encourage research works on the theme of that year’s competition – Innovations in Electric Power Solutions. Mrs. Fatayi-Williams said a renewed focus on power generation and conservation is definitely one area which can offer huge business opportunities in the country, calling on the industry to focus on renewable sources of energy to improve the situation, promote better energy output, as well as align the country with the global clamour for cleaner energy sources, as the world fights global warming. The President of LCCI, Paul Ruwase, said there was need to change the narrative and focus on innovative ideas that can enable practical solutions. He added that the theme of the session provided a platform for reshaping the mind-set of Nigerians, helping to champion the birth of new ideas and practical ways to make the power sector work as it should in order to promote the country’s economic development. “Reforming the power sector in Nigeria must align with the global energy direction of increasing renewables in the energy mix. Dr. Ngene’s award-winning work further presents an opportunity for Nigeria to harness new discoveries in solving her power supply challenges. His invention has positive implications on renewable energy development that the country can benefit from. It is believed that Dr. Ngene’s work will expand the energy market in Nigeria with efficient energy storage.” Ngene in his presentation titled: “Nanomaterials for Energy and Power Application”, highlighted the potential of his work in the area of storing hydrogen, storage battery for renewable energy and detection of hydrogen leaks in transformers to prevent explosion. He said explosion in transformers was one of the major causes of power outages in the country, adding that  Nanotechnology is a cheap way of detecting hydrogen to eliminate such explosions is possible.