The Nation’s Evelyn Osagie has unveiled an online photo advocacy exhibition, tagged: WETINiSABI. The multimedia exhibition, which seeks to create awareness on HIV/AIDS, released online marked the official unveiling of her Take A Stand Against AIDS Campaign, tagged: Project #TASAA. Using photography as a tool, the artist called for an enabling environment to discuss and get proper information on HIV/AIDS, she hinted that the campaign would be run throughout the year. “Picture, they say, speaks a thousand words. It is hoped that it drives conversation around the issue online with the exhibition which would keep expanding. WETINiSABI is part of efforts to reach the AYPs with the messages of HIV/AIDS prevention, which is already being spearheaded by UNAIDS, UNICEF and NACA, among others, using art in an exciting and creative way. Drawing inspiration from UNICEF/NACA iSABIHIV, the exhibition title was born. “I also intend to take the campaign through the display beyond social media to schools and public spaces using photography as a tool. It is hoped that it would inspire Nigerians to key into it; and that government, development partners and non-for-profits would be inspired to employ the arts for more creative and fun ways of reaching the young through partnerships with artist(e)s,” she added. She stated the project was inspired by UNAIDS ‘Zero Discrimination Day’, a day observed by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS. The photos, she said, were initially part of an online cum offline schools’ art campaign project. “Although the project began with what I called a “Protest Shoot” involving seven young volunteer models that were trainees in The Nation newspaper, and now see themselves as advocates. Unveiling it during my birthday was deliberate. I have always wanted my birthday to count for something. Last year, I held the second edition of my art to the street project, “Words Meet Images” to mark the day. Two years ago, in collaboration with Journalists for Christ and Media Career Services, I held a workshop for student female journalists, tagged: “Chat With Evelyn”. Osagie, a journalist currently working at The Nation Newspaper, is a multi-talented artist with a perceptive mind for creative details and an eye for images. She expresses her voice through diverse arts, especially photography and performance poetry that often advocates diverse global concerns – love, peace, non-violent election, environmental protection, rights of persons, women and children, etc.