National telecoms giant, Globacom, said its subscribers are in for surprises during the forthcoming annual Ojude Oba festival of the Ijebu nation slated for August 13 in Ogun State. The telco said 10 lucky subscribers get
one  tricycle(Keke) each, adding that
beneficiaries will be picked through raffle draws on  the festival day. It also promised to dole out hefty cash
prizes to the most colourful and creative groups out of the over 50 age groups
(Regberegbe) billed to participate at the festival. This 
year’s edition of the about two centuries old festival has: The
Uniqueness of the Ijebu Nation as theme. Globacom Regional Manager (Lagos and Ogun),
Mr. Olufolahan Faseyitan,  who spoke at
the Palace of the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Kayode Adetona, Ijebu – Ode, during
a press briefing to herald the cultural carnival, added that 10 other lucky
subscribers would also smile home with new Plasma television set  each. He appealed to the paramount ruler to use
the opportunity of the festival to further elevate the status of Ijebu nation
nationally and globally. “We note that Alaiyeluwa has
been using his clout to bring high networth personalities to grace the festival
as Special Guest, thereby raising the profile of the festival and status of
Ijebuland. We know that thus year will not be different too. “Our supports of major festivals in
the country is to preserve of our culture heritage. We will continue to fulfill
our brand promise of providing affordable telecoms solutions to Nigeria in line
with our avowed commitment to dribe Nigerian’s digitalisation process,” he
said. Earlier in his address, the Chairman,
Ojude Oba Organising Committee, Otunba Wahab Osinusi,  said the telco is a major  sponsor of the festival as its corporate
social responsibility (CSR) to the society. Osinusi added that
the festival is one of the Ijebus’ social-cultural and classic example and
manifestation of religious tolerance in Ijebuland as it is usually celebrated
on the third day of the Muslim’s Eid – el – Kabir by all sons and
daughters of Ijebuland cutting across different faiths.