The way our political leaders use words may require that Nigeria create its own words to express its unique realities. The extent that words, especially English words have lost meaning and relevance in Nigeria within the governance community and even within the media that report words and actions of politicians and public officers is hard to imagine by the average newspaper reader and television audience. For example, in the last few months, particularly since the rise in incidence of kidnapping in different states, politicians and their image makers have emptied the word politicisation of significance. Politicisation has become a word to scare citizens, confuse them, and mislead them. Efforts to read more meaning into politicising did not gain traction just in respect of public discussion of kidnapping. Last year, this word acquired more value among politicians. When citizens first started complaining about lapses in the country’s security, government spokespersons warned citizens about politicisation of security. Because the country was planning for elections then, most people considered such formulation as natural in the context of electioneering. The impression that overloading of the word, politicise, has created for many average citizens, may be that non-state actors should not talk about security or insecurity. What exactly is security for, if not for citizens in a world that accepts that the primary duty of a government is to secure citizens and properties? This state duty has stimulated governments in both democracy and autocracy to create and sustain military and law enforcement forces to protect citizens from external attacks/internal terrorism and against criminality—internal and international. In an informal discussion with a fellow mass communicator, he told me that what the government means by politicise refers mainly to misinterpretation or distortion of government actions by members of political opposition! The way our political leaders use words may require that Nigeria create its own words to express its unique realities. Members of political opposition are still citizens and they should have the right to speak on matters of insecurity or criminality in a country that they can call their own. Whatever may be the negative perception of political partisanship in the country, it is an exaggeration for ‘politicising security’ to be labelled as hostile to good governance. On the contrary, such politicisation should be considered as constructive criticism, for the simple reason that once a nation’s security starts to wane, such nation’s foundations also starts to collapse. There was no surprise when this word returned in full force a few weeks ago when citizens across towns and villages cried for help from the governments—national and subnational. But it is important that citizens are encouraged to understand that it is the vision of those in governments across the globe and in positions to influence policies that create and sustain specific forms of crime control systems. Criminology experts, such as British scholars as Tim Newburn and Paul Rock in The Politics of Crime Control and their American counterparts such as Brandon C. Welsh and David P. Farrington in The Science and Politics of Crime Prevention: Toward a New Crime Policy have drawn the attention of the modern world to the fact that politics is as close to crime control and prevention as the neck is to the head. In today’s Nigeria, the federal government is constitutionally the branch of government in charge of crime control. There need not be blame games between opposing political parties or contrarian citizens and government officials about an umbilical cord between the government and law enforcement in the country. If citizens feel paralysed by the current law enforcement system, it is the duty of the government in charge of law enforcement to research in collaboration with experts on why and how to fix whatever problems or challenges that may call for solution. For example, since the existence of postcolonial Nigeria, how many times have Yoruba people complained about the fear to practice their traditional economy of frequent interactions between, the urban and rural areas of the Southwest? When the level of noise about insecurity in the region became the talk in every bar, bus, and church, and mosque, it should signal danger for all patriots and believers in the integrity of Nigeria as a united territory. It is worrisome that none of the abductors in the many cases reported so far has been detected, prosecuted, and punished. No other group can ensure this other than the government and its public order maintaining agency, the police and related security organs. As an emergency response, the decision to deploy soldiers to control flash points along highways is encouraging. But there should be a system to comb the forests where kidnappers hide until they come unto the highways to abduct innocent citizens. For example, in other climes, drones would have been hovering over the rainforest and savannah of the Southwest round the clock. The laws governing non-state actors’ use of drones are tougher than what exists in advanced countries, but there seems to be no problem for governments to use drone for surveillance anywhere in the government. Relatedly, there was a report that the governments of Ondo and Ekiti states had deployed drones to assist the police and other security agents in respect of rising cases of kidnapping in their jurisdictions. But there has been no report as to what the drones had seen and recorded in the forests of southern Ekiti and most of Ondo State. If findings from aerial survey of the two states that have become poster children for kidnapping are classified materials, our governments should let citizens know this while assuring them that necessary actions are being taken to protect citizens. It is not just the governors that can share important information with opinion leaders in the communities.  Traditional rulers whose remit also includes protection of citizens in their kingdoms should assist the governors in many ways, more so that most of the forests used to be known as Kabiyesi’s land in trust for the citizens. However, it is reassuring that governors and traditional rulers are talking to the president; they also need to talk regularly to citizens to give them direly needed assurance. Other democracies even inform their citizens where to visit and when to visit certain countries or communities. Such regular communication between modern and traditional rulers may become useful at a time of emergence like the one on our hands in Southwest and other communities. One thing that most observers of the country’s security challenges may miss when they express their frustrations about insecurity is that, though the constitution gives all powers in relation to crime control to the federal government, there is nothing in our constitution that stops the state and local governments from creating and supporting crime prevention initiatives. For example, how many new villages or settlements scattered across Yoruba forests are occupied by criminal elements? How many local vigilantes have been deployed by state or local governments and traditional rulers to comb the forests from Shaki to Okitipupa and from Ikole to Ilaro? I still remember when I was a young boy in Ondo during the colonial era, anytime there was a case of kidnapping in town, the Osemawe of Ondo would send out his mass communicators to warn parents about becoming more vigilant and men about being more alert to their surroundings. The Osemawe would also mobilise his community security men and women to the forests to support citizens in the villages. This example about Ondo is not to suggest that the Osemawe of today may not have been mobilising people in his jurisdiction or that other Yoruba monarchs have not done so since persons from their kingdoms have been kidnapped. The observation about traditional crime prevention strategies is just to remind one another that crime prevention is a universal behaviour generally not forbidden by any constitution, unlike crime control that in some cases is an exclusive matter to one tier of governance. The persons that have been identified as kidnappers that suddenly stop flow of traffic on busy Benin-Ore, Lagos-Ibadan, Ibadan-Ikire-Ife-Ondo Roads, and many other highways across the country come out of the forests when they need to do so. Where do the criminals hide while waiting for their catch? The local government has the constitutional freedom to frustrate criminals from taking refuge in the forest. While talks about re-designing the architecture of security and of governance continue, it is necessary for states and local governments to establish joint task forces to engage in crime prevention, an intervention that can facilitate the job of federal security agents deployed to states and local governments and that can monitor the efficiency of such law enforcement workers. This may not be the best of times for many communities across Nigeria, particularly those in the Southwest whose local or informal economy depends largely on free movement between towns and villages. But this is a right time to heed the saying, even by Nigerian security experts in relation to Boko Haram, that security is not only the responsibility of federal government’s security agencies. As a matter that should interest all citizens, crime prevention is an activity that should attract all forms of authority in all communities.