THE brief diplomatic scuffle between London and Washington ended with the self-dismissal of the British Ambassador to the US, Kim Darroch, on Wednesday. It was the best and wisest course of action to take, the ambassador’s position having been rendered untenable and unsustainable by Donald Trump’s tweet that he was no longer welcome in the White House. In political circuits, this was the equivalent of a diplomatic red card. Despite the strong backing of his home government, the ambassador’s position was rendered all the more precarious by Boris Johnson, British Prime minister presumptive, who rumbled ominously that he could not rule out firing Darroch on coming to power. In the event, Darroch did not wait to be dismissed. He jumped, and a distinguished ambassadorial career has ended up in ruins. The mercurial Boris Johnson has now moderated his position, claiming regrets over the departure of an exceptional envoy who has served his country with distinction in a career spanning forty two years. Diplomatic insiders claim that the embattled envoy had to fall on his sword when he discovered that he may not enjoy the confidence and support of the incoming Prime minister. It is a typically British political execution exemplifying the saying that from time to time, Britain often relishes the public defenestration of its finest public servants in order to encourage the others. The Brexit rumpus and current political uncertainties in the western hemisphere have claimed another major scalp. The diplomatic dogfight began quietly enough on Sunday with the leakage of Darroch’s cable by The Mail On Sunday of London by an insider who is a rabid partisan of Brexit. In language shorn of diplomatic niceties, Trump was dismissed as wacky and incompetent while running a dysfunctional administration that is both clumsy and inept. Anybody imagining that the vain and narcissistic Donald Trump would take this lying low is living in a fool’s paradise. Hamurabi does not have a monopoly on the franchise of swift and instant revenge. A master of the rapid response school not known for turning the other ear, the pugnacious and rambunctious American president quickly returned fire, dismissing the British envoy as a very stupid person. Even by the standards of diplomatic disputes and demarche, this was very strong language indeed. After the limping and exhausted Teresa May administration weighed in on the side of its ambassador defending the universal rights of envoys to send back to their home governments clear and candid evaluation of their hosts, Trump went into overdrive gear with his famous tweet calling the ambassador a pompous fool. Not done, the American president promptly supplied the coup de grace with a cruel personal taunt of Teresa May’s Brexit bungle. This is diplomatic fencing at its most vicious and blood-curling, particularly between two countries that rhapsodise their special relationship. It will be recalled that last month on a state visit to Great Britain, Donald Trump, in a clear breach of diplomatic protocols and international norms, openly canvassed for Boris Johnson even as he was embroiled in a nasty spat with the Mayor of London. It was an unwarranted intervention in the personal affairs of a sisterly country. Throughout her ordeal in the hands of Trump, Teresa May, the outgoing British Prime-minister, kept a typically British stiff upper lip and remained gracefully demure even as Donald Trump went on a rampage. There are die-hard conspiracy theorists of the cloak and dagger school of diplomacy who believe that the ambassador’s stinging rebuke was a retaliatory rally against Trump’s political and diplomatic hooliganism. It is a new low in the special relationship between Britain and her former colony. There has been the occasional dust up such as when General Haig, the former American Secretary of State, was said to have famously dismissed Lord Peter Carington, the British Foreign Secretary, as a duplicitous bastard. The British aristocrat was known to have responded that this was the problem with leaving diplomacy in the hands of Boys’ scouts. But despite the occasional stress and strain, the special relationship has kept up over the centuries. Diplomatic historians are already dredging up comparisons with 1856 when the 14th American President Franklin Pierce openly accused Britain of recruiting Americans to fight on its side during the Crimean War. It doesn’t get more sour and sullied. In the rarified world political intelligence, diplomatic cables are often written at the summit of the language. In the hands of masters of the genre, they are a wonderful delight to read and a source of rapturous felicity: witty, concise, bristling with lapidary precision and soaring with epigrammatic brilliance.  In many quarters, they are regarded as works of art in their own right, to be relished and treasured by its aficionados. But that now seems to belong to another world with the crisis of globalization and the attendant rise of right wing populism and xenophobic governments in the western world and the subsequent mutual self-loathing and hateful recriminations. With such desperation and fear of tomorrow, the west has become a bear at bay thrashing about and lashing out at everything. With those they consider as immigrant barbarians arriving at the banquet, there can be no room left for cultured language and cultivated speech even at the apex of governance. In many respects, Donald Trump is an archetype of this millennial meltdown, this brave new world in all its unworthy and graceless perorations. The feisty and fiery American president is the master of a new type of politics of impolitics; a connoisseur of verbal violence and crude lack of empathy. In a matter of weeks, he will inherit a devoted sidekick in a Boris Johnson who is only marginally less aggressive and divisive as he is contemptuous of consensus. For these new hard men and hitmen of the right, consensus is an overpriced canard of the cringing and the craven. As far as they are concerned, the world has never been driven by consensus but by coercion and crass compulsion. They may be right, but if this is a peep into the emerging world order, humanity had better forget about civilization as we know it. The nasty diplomatic slugfest between the American president and the outgoing British ambassador offers a grim reminder of the terrible fate that awaits an exhausted and isolated Great Britain once it has exited the European Union. With nowhere else to turn having abjured its European neighbours, Britain will find itself prostrate in desperate and impecunious importuning even as a merciless Uncle Sam tightens the screw. The normal diplomatic protocol is for a country to a have a free hand in naming ambassadors of its choice to another country to represent its interests. But with a Britain powerless and paralyzed by Brexit, America has now unilaterally reversed that global order by insisting that only British envoys who conform to and comply with the bizarre taste of the sitting American president will be welcomed in Washington. Pre-Brexit it was canvassed by right-wing populists and xenophobic politicians that Britain was in danger of becoming a mere vassal state of the EU. The great irony is that post-Brexit, Britain is now likely to become a craven vassal state of a bullying America. The order of precedence between a vassal state and a slave state should be very clear. We are certainly not far from the New World Order according to Donald Trump. Henceforth, only countries with the economic buoyancy and ideological cujones will be able to look Washington in the face and tell it to go to hell with its envoys. In a revealing diplomatic howler which shows a child-like infatuation with raw power, the American president had even let it be known that Nigel Farage, the far-right hustler, will not be a bad British envoy to America. The poor fellow had reportedly snapped that he is not a diplomat. If gold can rust, what will iron do? One must shudder at the fate of Third World nations, particularly African countries that seem to have nowhere else to turn. Having mismanaged their God-given resources thus reducing their countries to a beggarly status in the process, they will find in Donald Trump an implacable taskmaster. It may well be that we all need this right-wing chastisement to bring us back to our senses. For now, Britain appears to have shot itself in the leg with the Brexit imbroglio and must be prepared for the consequences. Once again, welcome to the world according to the Don.