Nigeria bash Bafana-Bafana!  Eagles chop banana-banana!  What devastating pun! It was the aftermath of the Nigeria-South Africa showdown, at the current African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt.  Flush with a giant-killing victory against homers and seven-time champions, Egypt, the social media was ablaze with South Africa running Nigeria ragged, as they did Egypt. Suddenly Stuart Baxter, the Bafana-Bafana boss, suddenly became the acclaimed master of beguiling and crushing tactics. The majestic dash-and-press, that silenced the mighty Mo Sallah and sent the Pharaohs home early, was awaiting Odion Ighalo; and maybe the audacious master of nutmeg, Alex Iwobi. For sure, after the Egypt conquest, the match was for Bafana to lose.  It’s time to silence the uppity West Africans for good, and confirm Uyo — Bafana’s 2:0 defeat of Nigeria, in own backyard — was no fluke. But on the day, it was another story.  Ighalo, tall, big and muscular, and co-highest goal grabber (with Senegal’s Sadio Mane, with three goals) was no more than a decoy, bearing down on Bafana’s harassed defence. While Baxter was cocking his “Republican Guard” guns at Ighalo, Gernot Rohr, the Nigeria manager, unleashed his smart, laser bomb, Samuel Chukwueze, on Bafana!  Before you could mutter Baxter, Bafana was in blind panic! By the way, “Republican Guards”, “smart, laser bombs” — remember those terrible and foreboding images out of Operation Desert Storm, the first of the two hideous America-Iraq wars?  While Saddam’s supposed elite Republican Guards were arrayed, waiting for conventional battle, America’s latest smart bombs had finished the job! Nigeria versus South Africa was the triumph of superior tactics on the day; making your players play to their strength and natural technique, backed by unassailable mental strength. South Africa came in, wanting to run, and run, and run; hoping in the end to dazzle, rather than muscle.  But they found themselves muscled and muzzled, by a Nigerian midfield duo of Etebo and Ndidi, who cut off almost all Bafana raids, before they ever got into the final third. Bafana planned a raid, powered by race and pace.  But the Eagles shut down any race; and Bafana found selves in a tight brace. On the other hand, the Eagles surged: the trio of the mercurial Iwobi, Chukwueze and Ahmed Musa orchestrating the dangerous moves, putting Ighalo the decoy at the ready — who knows? Rohr triumphed in this game of wits, though no thanks to his boys’ waywardness and wastefulness, they should have buried the match, long before Bafana got their video assisted referee (VAR)-assisted equalizer.  But that wouldn’t matter since Troost Ekong, the big one-half of the Nigerian famed “Oyinbo wall”, came teasing in the winner, when it was too late for Bafana to come back. Another fine win over South Africa, chaffing under a rather overwhelming head-to-head statistics: six losses, five draws and only two wins, out of which only one was competitive, the other being a friendly contest.  And for records too, in AFCON, Nigeria made it 3:0 — three straight wins.  Over Bafana, the West Africans reign supreme. So, if exalted ball fans on Twitter screech Eagles chop banana-banana, maybe they have a point! 