Former Governor Abiola Ajimobi has called for reconciliation of warring factions in the troubled Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). But a clique within the chapter has vowed not to recognise Ajimobi’s peace initiative. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the implication of the protracted crisis and how peace can be restored in the party. The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oyo State chapter, is yet to abate. While the former Governor Abiola Ajimobi is pushing for reconciliation, his arch rival and former Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, has vowed not to have anything to do with the former governor’s peace initiative. Rather, he is planning to take over the leadership of the party and send the former governor and his loyalists packing. The supremacy contest between the two gladiators polarised the party in the build up to the last general elections. Shittu had rallied aggrieved party members under the aegis of Oyo APC Unity Forum to challenge the leadership of the former governor. The group accused Ajimobi of exhibiting dictatorial tendencies. The crisis culminated in parallel congresses that produced two parallel executives in the state. However, the APC National Working Committee (NWC) recognised the congresses and primaries conducted by the Ajimobi faction. As a result, members of the Unity Forum defected to the African Democratic Congress (ADC), a new party floated by the former President Olusegun Obasanjo. accusing the NWC of bias. Though Shittu, as a minster then, did not profess ADC publicly, but all his supporters joined the party. The APC went into election as a weak party. Most of the frontline members like former Speaker, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, former senator that represented Ibadan South, Senator Soji Akanbi, the party leader in Okeogun zone, Pa Michael Koleoso, former Secretary to the State Government, Dr Busari Adebisi, Secretary of the Unity Forum, Dr Wasiu Olatunboson, Alhaji Isiaka Alimi, Chief Adegoke Oyetunji, Yunus Akintunde, son of former Governor Lam Adesina and a former member, House of Representatives, Dapo Adesina, along with five of his colleagues joined the ADC. It was one of the parties that formed alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and others solely to dislodge APC from power. The game plan worked; the APC lost both the presidential and the governorship election in Oyo. Ajimobi also failed in his ambition to return to the Senate; he lost to a dark horse. After reflecting on the internal crisis rocking the APC and its poor performance in the last elections Ajimobi has called for reconciliation among the warring factions in the party.  He said this became imperative in order to reposition the party and put it in good stead for the challenges ahead. To achieve genuine reconciliation, Ajimobi called for a committee to drive the process. The former governor appealed to all party faithful to understand that life is about conflicts and resolutions. He said: “We have all had our shares of mistakes. No one should be blamed or absolved of such human imperfections. Life itself is about conflict, what matters is the ability to resolve such conflicts, which is part of politics. We should not apportion blame at this time because, in the final analysis, no one is faultless in the circumstances. We all contributed in one way or the other. We, therefore, should rise above the tendency of looking for scapegoats to blame. Let us all reconcile and forge ahead to reposition our party for the challenges ahead.” But Shittu has stepped up a war of attrition. He has vowed that he and his supporters would retrieve the party from the people he described as predators. He said: “My group, the Unity Forum, would retrieve the party from them, while the process of rebuilding the party in the state would soon start. “Let me recall during the congresses in Oyo State, we had two congresses, two factions of our party held parallel congresses. The former governor’s faction and the Unity Forum group which has members four times that of the governor’s camp. Our party leaders at the national level by force accepted those who are not qualified as party executives. “Eventually, what happened started from there.  We are in court challenging to know the legality of the recognised executives of the party. The Unity Forum will certainly ensure that justice is done in the area of party congresses. That is why we are challenging the emergence of the executives. They have to be true to themselves; but for Ajimobi, they will not be there. Ajimobi did what he did, so that he could use them. He foisted on the party the people who will continue to do his biddings. “Clearly, Ajimobi is a dictator, a betrayer; clearly everything you could think of. Now that he has gone, we have to rescue all of those people away from him. We are waiting to collaborate in ensuring that we retrieve our party from predators. We will bring everybody on board; we will retrieve our party. We will start soonest by the grace of God.” A professor of Peace and Conflict Resolution at the University of Ibadan (UI), Professor Albert Olawale, hailed Ajimobi for initiating the peace process, but asked Ajimobi to disqualify himself from setting up the committee. He said the former governor is a party to the crisis. “As a result, he cannot handpick the arbitrators; a neutral body should constitute the peace committee for genuine reconciliation to take place,” he said. Olawale said in reconciliation, it is assumed the conflict is between two parties that are to be reconciled. He added: “In the case of Oyo APC, we have Ajimobi’s group and those that are opposed to the former governor. It is not logical for him to set up the peace committee for the sake of fairness, equity and justice. It’s good starting peace process, but Ajimobi can’t set up the committee ditto for the other group. “I will suggest that the national leadership of the APC should come in and carry out the reconciliation of the warring groups. The national leaders should intervene in the crisis and reconcile the groups. Nothing will come out of Ajimobi’s reconciliation effort. Those who lost party tickets and the election are licking their wounds. The APC National Working Committee should come to Oyo State to investigate what went wrong. There are too many wounded people in Oyo APC.  The NWC should punish the perpetrators of the crisis and compensate the victims. From there, restructuring of the party will start; then the party will be repositioned for future elections. “Ajimobi acted well when he apologised to the aggrieved party members and sued for peace. But it is only the APC NWC that can carry out reconciliation. They should come to Oyo State and invite the two sides to the crisis to state their grievances. Many people that Ajimobi offended would not accept the peace process initiated by him. Apart from party members, the former governor offended Ibadan people; he needs to apologise to them.  He needs to extend the apology to the people of Oyo State. Those who lost their seats in the last elections are blaming it on Ajimobi. “APC is a weak party in Oyo State today. Ajimobi can’t on his own bring back those who left the party. If he thinks he can do that, he’s engaging in a wild goose chase. They have left the party; will he offer them the position they lost? How will he compensate them? The reconciliation exercise is beyond Ajimobi. The NWC should come in to rescue the party in Oyo State.” To Professor Bayo Okunade, also of UI, Ajimobi is qualified to initiate peace process. He said the peace initiative by the former governor is a welcome development. Okunade, a lecturer at the Department of Political Science, insists: “There is nothing to disqualify Ajimobi from embarking on reconciliation process. He’s a party member and party leader. He must have considered his credentials and pedigree to embark on peace process. The party members have been talking to themselves. “Politicians have a way of resolving their differences. Two weeks to the last general elections, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala who left the APC returned to the party. Let Ajimobi start the reconciliation, if he succeeds fine; if he fails let other people take-off from there. The leaders have the responsibility to restore peace in the party, and that is what Ajimobi is trying to do.” On the eve of the 2019 general elections, Shittu vowed to work against the APC in Oyo State. He was disqualified from participating in governorship primary by the NWC on the ground that he did not participate in the one-year mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). He rejected the call on him by the national reconciliation committee to bury the hatchet in the interest of the party. Shittu said: “Before you talk of reconciliation, you must first talk of restitution. If you violate somebody’s property and you are found out, instead of you to surrender what you had stolen you are now talking of reconciliation. As for me, I don’t recognise the governorship candidate of the APC. I am in court and I am sure that I would triumph over those who were less than intelligent to foist a stranger on our party in Oyo State. “With all sense of humility, I have passed the stage where any party would threaten me. I am in court and if the party is sure that it has a better basis for what they have done, let us go and meet in court. You don’t start threatening who feel unfairly treated thinking you can get me out of the justice system.” The former minister alleged that some leaders in the APC were worse than those of the PDP that they were accusing of impunity and corruption. A public affairs analyst, Dr Lasun Oyedeji, advised Shittu to embrace peace and forget about the acrimony associated with 2019 general elections. He said as a party faithful, the former minister should give peace a chance, saying it is only when there is peace within the party that you can achieve your political ambition. Oyedeji blamed both Ajimobi and Shittu for allowing their personal ambitions to affect the fortunes of the APC during the elections and reduced it to opposition party in Oyo State. He said they were busy fighting over the control of the soul of the party, while the opposition leaders were plotting and strategising on how to dislodge the APC from power. The two gladiators, he said, should sheathe their swords and embrace peace so that the party would be repositioned ahead of 2023. Oyedeji added: “Ajimobi has made a good move by calling for reconciliation in the party. This shows that he has realised his mistakes and excesses which prolonged the internal crisis in the party. He should apologise publicly to the aggrieved party members who were forced to leave the party, because of his dictatorial tendencies. If the APC had gone to poll as a united family during the last general elections, it would have retained power in the state. “Though I commend Ajimobi for initiating peace process, but he should disqualify himself from appointing members of the peace committee. Ajimobi is a principal actor in the crisis that led to the fall of APC in Oyo State. It is unfair to allow him to set up or preside over the committee. The other group would have no confidence in the peace process. There should be a level-playing field. The APC national leadership should set up a neutral panel that would investigate the crisis in the party. The members of the committee should be from outside Southwest zone.”