•We commend the donation of bicycles to rural students while expecting more It seems revolutionary. But it only seems so. The Guaranty Trust Bank launched a programme recently to soften the burden of commuting to secondary schools in Enugu State by donating bicycles to 120 students. Called the “Beat the Distance” programme, the top financial institution made that move for two reasons. One, long distances between schools and homes forced students to drop in big numbers. Two, the long distance compel the students to undertaking long treks that exhaust them physically and mentally. In one of the launching occasions at the Government College, Agbani in Nkanu West local government Council, Enugu State, the bank’s managing director, Segun Agbaje, said the company made the decision on the strength of a study that concluded that long distance trekking reduced the ability of students to pay attention in the class. Justifying the decision, Chukwudi Deribe, who is the group head of commercial banking in the southeast, said: “Every day in rural Nigeria, millions of children walk for hours just to get to school and back. This challenge, coupled with the responsibility of doing chores in the morning, especially for the girls, makes it difficult for them to get to school in good time. The long journey travelled on steep terrain for most, also leaves children tired, slacking in performance and eventually, dropping out of school.” The programme, which is part of the elaborate GTB Cares, projects the bank’s efforts to alleviate poverty, which is one of the cardinal benefits of a literate mind. We commend the bank for the donation. Many students suffer sore feet and weary bodies in walks over distances that sometimes spans miles. To offer them bicycles, which is often seen as a luxurious means of commuting, pares the commuting time, and makes going to school look relatively like luxury. We expect that more of the bicycles will be donated because 120 bicycles in rural areas that potentially number in their thousands falls short of demand. Giving them so few makes a privilege of a select number of students. It is in that light that we think, good as the gesture is, it runs the danger of appearing as tokenism. A better solution to that problem is first to construct motorable roads. They might not be tarred or macadamised, but covered in hard earth. This will pave the way for big buses that convey the students in large numbers. Providing bicycles may be good when we are not interested in raising the bar of comfort, or eyeing the opportunities of the modern world. Banks and other top corporate citizens have tended to pander to the low expectations of citizens. We are in the 21st century, and the banks operate in the wizardry of modern business models and technology. So, donating bicycles, in the eyes of the locals is a great leap, but we must not allow ourselves to tie down the subaltern Nigerians to the old trappings of progress when the possibilities of today beckon us to better facilities. Making the students enjoy modern amenity will raise their expectations of themselves and society. Bicycles are a staple of rural societies. This is not to discount the bank’s gestures. These donations must abide by the annual budgets for corporate social responsibility. Quite a few banks, including the GTB, have played important roles in improving lives of Nigerians in different sectors. The danger in such generous acts is that they may be seen as cynical attempts to win customers rather than the altruism of help. The GTB bicycle gesture comes across as a genuine act. It only needs to raise the bar in line with the age.