The Joint Labour Unions in Osun State have congratulated Governor Gboyega Oyetola on his victory at the Supreme Court over last year’s gubernatorial election in the state. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), its Trade Union Congress (TUC) counterpart and the Joint Negotiating Council (JNC) in a joint statement in Osogbo, the state capital, felicitated with the governor. The statement, jointly signed by the state Chairman of NLC, Comrade Adekomi Jacob Tunde; his counterpart in the TUC, Comrade Adekola Adebowale and the JNC Chairman, Comrade Bayo Adejumo said: “We heartily congratulate the Executive Governor of the state, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola on his deserved victory at the Supreme Court. “It is our belief that this victory will spur you to be more focused and undistracted on the assignment of taking the state to greater heights. “The unions felicitate with you and pray that God Almighty will help you as you prepare to make life more bearable and pleasant for the teeming workers in the state. Once again, we congratulate you.” In a related event, the NLC, on behalf of its National Executive Council (NEC), commended President Muhammadu Buhari for reappointing Mr. Boss Mustapha and Malam Abba Kyari as Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and Chief of Staff to the President respectively. NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said the union had over the past four years enjoyed very good working relationships with Alhaji Kyari and Mr. Mustapha, which have contributed immensely to fast-tracking resolutions of critical labour issues in the country. He said: “We have no doubt that the country has benefited and will benefit more from their commitment to the success of the present government and the progress of the entire country.” Wabba added that the union enjoyed a robust relationship with Mr. Kyari’s at critical moments during the negotiations of the new National Minimum Wage, “which dispelled various misinformation sent to the President by some individuals involved in the negotiations”. The NLC further urged  President Buhari to maintain the trust and patriotic purpose of Alhaji Kyari’s and Boss Mustapha’s presence in his administration.