Edo State House of Assembly Speaker Frank Okiye has accused the representatives of bias in their action. In a statement, Okiye said the recommendations would disrupt the assembly’s operations, urging the police and the DSS to respect a subsisting court order. The statement reads: “It has come to our knowledge that the Ad-hoc Committee of the House of Representatives has recommended that the police DSS should seal off the assembly. “Considering what we came to know in the course of this process, the recommendation of the Ad-Hoc committee does not come to us as a surprise. “For example, the chartered plane marked 5N FCT, which brought the committee members to Benin City, was paid for by a major party in the disagreement. Also, the younger brother to the APC National Chairman, Seid Oshiomhole, in a recent leaked audio conversation, revealed the underhand dealings in Abuja regarding the matter. He stated that Oshiomhole and his proxies have been having meetings with the committee members and other actors on the issue in Abuja and doling out money to ensure the issue goes in their favour. “With all these, it is clear that the ad-hoc committee was up to no good. Their report was always going to be biased. “Moreover, we want to draw the attention of the public and the police to a subsisting court order restraining the police; the APC National Working Committee; the DSS and their agents, from interfering in the affairs of the assembly, as the House has been going about its activities peacefully and without rancour. The National Assembly must take note that they are expected to act as agents of peace and not merchants of crisis. Edo State has always been peaceful and any attempt by them to carry out this order will certainly disrupt the peace that is currently being enjoyed in the state. “In a time like this in which the nation is being engulfed in one form of violence or the order, it is unfortunate that the House of Representatives is seen promoting violence and exacerbating the tension in the country.”