Senate President  Ahmad Lawan yesterday announced names of principal officers of the Senate. Against all predictions, Senator Yahaya Abubakar Abdullahi emerged Senate Leader while Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice picked the post of Deputy Senate Leader. Former Abia Governor  Orji Uzor Kalu was announced Chief Whip while former Senate spokesperson, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, emerged Deputy Chief Whip. On the opposition side, Senator Enyinnaya Harcourt Abaribe emerged Senate Minority Leader while Senator Emmanuel Bwacha was announced Deputy Minority Leader, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Senator Philip Tanimu Aduda became Minority Whip while Zamafara North Senator, Sahabi Ya’u was announced Deputy Minority Whip. The appointments were in line with the position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). With the announcement of the names which concluded the formation of the body of principal officers, the Senate appears set to launch into its legislative agenda. It may be necessary to say that Yahaya (Kebbi North) and Aliyu (Niger North) played major roles in the emergence of Lawan as Senate President on June 11, 2019. While Yahaya was chairman, Ahmad Lawan for Senate President Campaign Organisation, Aliyu was the spokesman of the group. Who are those lawmakers who will team up with Lawan to pilot the affairs of the Senate probably for the next four years?  Yahaya Abdullahi  Hewas not particularly visible in the Abubakar Bukola Saraki’s troubled Eight Senate. Not much is known about Senator Yahaya Abdullahi. The much that is known about the Kebbi North politician is his love for education. The seven local government areas that comprise Senator Yahaya Abdullahi’s constituency, Kebbi North senatorial district are Arewa, Argungu, Augie, Bagudo, Dandi, Suru and Jega. While many acknowledged his good nature and contributions towards development in the area, a few like Usman Kaoje Abubakar had tweeted to the Senator urging him not to forget their part of his constituency this time around. “Congratulations sir, we look forward to seeing improvements in Kebbi North, particularly Bagudo and Suru local governments, because we (Bagudo/Suru) benefited nothing in your first tenure,” the constituent had stated. Among others, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi has demonstrated a keen interest in enhancing educational development in his area. The numerous educational projects he influenced for his people’s benefit include construction· of a block· of 2 classrooms each at Sabaru village in Arewa  local government area; Government Secondary School, Bachaka in Bachaka Ward of Arewa LG; Shehu Kangiwa Model Primary School in Kokani South Ward of Argungu local government, and; Shiko Model Primary School in Shiko Ward of Dandi local government. According to Mallam Mohammed Abubakar, a petty trader in Rudun Bisa village in Shiko ward of Dandi local government area, one of the most appreciated gestures from the Senator to his people is his ‘Water For All’ project under which boreholes were constructed at Rudun Bisa and other villages where water means so much, owing to the terrain and geographical location. At Dankal Ward of Augie local government and at Gwazange Ward in Argungu LGA where boreholes and tanks with 5, 000 litres capacity were constructed, many remain appreciative for having as Senator, a man who truly understands that water literally means living in the hotter parts of Nigeria. One of his contributions most appreciated by constituents was the motion he tabled before the Senate in June last year. It was a motion to provide urgent materials to the victims of rainstorm/windstorm And fire outbreak in Argungu local Government Area, Kebbi State.  Ajayi Boroffice  Senator Ajayi Boroffice was born on 23 April 1949 in Oka-Akoko, Ondo State, South Western, Nigeria. He became a lecturer at the University of Ibadan in 1975, and Professor of Zoology at the Lagos State University in 1986. He once held administrative positions at the Lagos State University including Head of Department, Dean of Faculty, and Chairman of the Committee of Deans. Boroffice was appointed Coordinating Director for Science in the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) in 1992. He worked on biotechnology, Information and Communication Technology and Space Science and Technology which led to establishing the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and the National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA). In 1999 Boroffice was made the Director General of NASRDA, a post he held for 10 years. Under his leadership, NASRDA launched 2 satellites; a low orbit earth observations microsatellite (NigeriaSat-1) in 2003 and a communication satellite (NigcomSat-1) in 2007. He also laid the groundwork for the building of NigeriaSat-2 and NigeriaSat-X, which were launched in August 2011, from Russia. In 2004, Robert Boroffice was awarded the title of Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON) by former President Olusegun Obasanjo.[1] In March 2011, Boroffice was given the 2011 Golden Merit Award in Space Science by the World Federation of Science Journalists. On his political career, Boroffice faced little opposition in his bid to become Labour Party candidate for the Ondo North Senatorial District. He gained the support of traditional rulers in the Akoko area of Ondo State. In an interview before the April elections, he criticized politicians who lacked integrity and honour, making promises they could not keep in order to get elected, and then focusing on making money once elected. In the election, Boroffice ganered 84,290 votes. Runners up were the incumbent Senator Bode Olajumoke of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) with 51,112 votes and Agunloye Olu of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) with 36,601 votes. On December 28, 2011, Boroffice decamped to the Action Congress of Nigeria so that he can pursue his ambition of becoming the next governor of Ondo state. Later on, he defected to the All Progressives Congress the current ruling party. Boroffice was born on 23 April 1949 in Oka-Akoko, Ondo State, South Western, Nigeria. He became a lecturer at the University of Ibadan in 1975, and Professor of Zoology at the Lagos State University in 1986. He once held administrative positions at the Lagos State University including Head of Department, Dean of Faculty, and Chairman of the Committee of Deans.  Orji Uzor Kalu  Senator Orji Uzor Kalu was born on April 21, 1960, to the family of Mr Johnson Uzor Nesiegbe Kalu and Mrs Eunice Kalu. He is the chairman of SLOK Holding and the Daily Sun and New Telegraph newspapers in Nigeria, who served as the governor of Abia State, Nigeria from May 29, 1999, to May 29, 2007.  Enyinnaya Abaribe  The fourth time Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe became Abia State’s Deputy Governor after Orji Uzor Kalu’s 1999 election to the Governorship. The state’s House of Assembly impeached the deputy governor twice in 2000 and a third time in 2003; as he was facing his third impeachment, he resigned on March 7, 2003, sending his resignation via DHL so as to have written a record of it. The House of Assembly voted him out of the office several days later, in a move Abaribe called “medicine after death.” He was succeeded as deputy governor by Eric Acho Nwakanma Abaribe ran for the governorship on the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) platform in 2003, but lost to Kalu. Abaribe was elected to the Senate in 2007 on a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket. Eric Acho Nwakanma of the PPA challenged the validity of the election. Abaribe is Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Inter-Parliamentary Affairs (Senator Abdulaziz Usman of Jigawa-North East is Chairman). He is also a member of the Committees on the Independent National Electoral Commission, Senate Services, and Works. In October 2007, as Ralph Uwazuruike, leader of the banned secessionist organization Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), was on trial for treason, Abaribe and six other southeastern senators protested at the Federal High Court in Lagos to demand his release. Abaribe was reelected for Abia South on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in 2015 and is currently representing the people of Abia South Senatorial District in the upper chamber. On June 22, 2018, Abaribe was arrested by the Department of State Security Services (DSS) at his barber shop located at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja for his alleged links with the Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) being one of the sureties to the IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu, he was taken to his house for a search and was later taken to the DSS detention in Abuja. He was released the next Tuesday,26th June 2018 on bail. Abaribe earned his WASSCE from Government College Umuahia in 1974. He went on to the University of Benin, where he received a bachelor’s degree economics in 1979 and a master’s degree in economics in 1982. He lectured at Edo State University from 1982 until 1985.  Emmanuel Bwacha  Senator Emmanuel Bwacha CON is a politician who was elected to the Senate for the Taraba South constituency of Taraba State, in the April 2011 federal elections. He was elected on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) platform. He was reelected under the same party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 28 March 2015 federal elections. Bwacha was born in the Donga Local Government Area of Taraba State. He has an Education Diploma in Public Administration from the University of Calabar. A public servant, he served as Commissioner of Agriculture for Taraba State between 1999 and 2003 in the Jolly Nyame administration. Bwacha was elected to the federal House of Representatives for the Donga / Ussa / Takum Constituency, serving from May 2003 to May 2007. He was Chairman of the House Committee on Police Affairs. In the April 2007 elections, he lost his bid for the Senate seat. The favourite of Governor Danbaba Suntai, Bwacha won the PDP primaries for the Taraba South Senate seat in January 2011 without opposition from the incumbent Senator Joel Danlami Ikenya, who was running for election as governor. On 9 April 2011 elections Bwacha received 106,172 votes, ahead of Aliyu of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) with 80,256 votes.  Philips Tanimu Aduda  Senator Philips Tanimu Aduda served two terms in the House of Representatives between 2003 and 2011 and was elected to the Senate for the Abuja Federal Capital Territory. He is a member of the  ?People’s Democratic Party Senator Aduda was born on June 13, 1969, into the family of Rt. Rev Tanimu Samari Aduda (the Bishop of Gwagwalada), and Chief (Mrs.) Jummai Tanimu Aduda, the president and founder of Grassroot Associations of Nigeria and International Grassroot Association. A Christian by birth and was brought up under strict Christian principles, as a son of a devout Bishop. It is in the light of this development that he had contributed immensely towards ensuring peaceful co-existence among Muslims, Christians and other religious adherents. Some of his philanthropic works include his contributions towards the following areas: The building of Central Mosque and ECWA Church in Karu, Abuja; the building of Central Mosque in Abaji, Abuja; the building of Central Mosque in Bwari, Abuja; the building of Islamic School in Tungan Maje, Abuja; provision of facilities for the graduation of Islamiyya students in Kubwa, Abuja; building of Islamiyya Institute in Kawu, Abuja; building of Solid Rock Fellowship Church in Kubwa, Abuja; building of Anglican Cathedral in Gwagwalada and Kubwa, Abuja; and member of Steering Committee for building of Anglican University. He also makes provisions for the distribution of foodstuff (grains, rice, goats etc) during festivities (fasting) within his constituency – Muslims and Christians.  Sahabi Ya’u  Senator Sahabi Ya’u who represents Zamfara North was one of the PDP beneficiaries of the court ruling that disqualified all APC candidates in the 2019 elections. Ya’u is said to be a grassroots politician in Zamfara State.