The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) wants President Muhammadu Buhari to consider the implementation of the 35 percent affirmative action of women representation in his appointment of Ministers, Chief Executive Officers (CEO’s) of MDAs, and other Principal Officers in the formation of his Cabinet Chairperson of the Women Commission of the Congress, Comrade Hafsatu Shaibu who made the call in a letter to the President decried the under representation of women in political positions in the country saying it negates democratic practices. Comrade Shaibu also decried the under representation of women in the ninth National Assembly with only 18 women represented in the two chambers. She reminded the President of his promise to carry along women and youths in his administration, adding that it is globally recognised and accepted, that the inclusion of women in political participation and decision making is a fundamental aspect of modern democracy. Comrade Shuibu appealed to President Buhari to encourage state governors to extend the same gesture to the Women and the Youths at the states and local Government levels in the appointment of Commissioners, Permanent Secretaries, Local Government Chairmen and other principal officers. While expressing confidence that President Buhari will change the trend, the labour leader expressed optimism that the increased representation of women in government would go a long way to enhance benefits such as improved decision making across board, changes in certain policies, economic growth, enhanced conflict resolution and peace building. She said, “presently, in the 9th Assembly in Nigeria, out of the 109 senators only 7 are Women, viz a viz the House of Representatives, only 11 women are members out of the 360 seats that exists, the numbers have gone down compared to what we had in the 8th Assembly. “The picture clearly depicts a lopsided membership of the National Assembly in favour of the Men. Women are still under-represented and obviously marginalized in democratization in Legislative and Executive arms of Government. “This trend is noticeable from the National level, to states, down to Local Government levels, where few Women take the lead as Local Government chairmen and or Councilors. “You would recall, that Nigeria as a member of the United Nations signed and ratified the various relevant international instruments, treaties and conventions without reservations. “These instruments have always emphasized that member Nations put in place all the necessary structures needed to eliminate gender discriminations, ensure equality and human dignity to all Men and Women.”