Sir: President Muhammadu Buhari formally launched the National Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) on April 5, 2017 to restore Nigeria’s economy to the path of sustainable growth. The plan covers the years 2017 to 2020, and targets a 7% growth rate by 2020. The ERGP also seeks to promote self-sustenance by discouraging imports while promoting local production and consumption. In addition, the ERGP aims to create a business-friendly environment, diversify the economy and make the economy globally competitive. The aim of the ERGP cannot be completely achieved by the target year 2020 without the passage of the Audit Service Commission Bill into law. The bill has suffered several setbacks through refusal to or withholding of presidential assent beginning from the time of the former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s regime when it was first passed by the National Assembly, but could not see the light of the day because of refusal of assent by the then president. Also, to grace the tireless efforts of the Muhammadu Buhari administration in the fight against corruption and to further facilitate the achievement of the ERGP, the 8th National Assembly under the leadership of Senator Bukola Saraki passed and transmitted the Audit Service Commission Bill to the president for assent. During the passage at the 8th Senate, the senate president had said: “Today is a landmark achievement in the fight against corruption. This will bring accountability and probity to the finances of the government and the fight against corruption. This will go a long way at ensuring the independence of the office of the Auditor-General and will ensure that the Auditor-General has access to different parastatal agencies. “We truly have to block all the various leakages. We have to ensure that we get this to Mr. President to get his assent. We have gone a long way in this administration in our fight against corruption, and it is commendable that the National Assembly are the sponsors and movers of this very important bill, which we can see has been outdated for many years. We will continue to play our part in this fight against corruption for the sake of our country,” Nevertheless, the audit bill to the best of my knowledge is still at the office of the president awaiting the assent to become law. To intensify the war against corruption, the audit bill remains one viable tool to correct the anomalies found in the system and restore the principle of transparency and accountability in Nigeria. Should it become imperative that the passage of the bill should commence de novo, both the executive and the legislature have to put their hands on deck to hasten the passage and ensure that the bill is assented to without the traditional delay and refusal.