16 teams of U-13 players from across Akoka community will participate in the sixth edition of a football competition in honour of Hon Ade Ipaye. The competition holds from August 9-12 at the Federal College of Education (FCE) Akoka Astro turf pitch. Chairman Akoka CDA, Mr. Segun Adesanya, who also doubles as the chairman of the LOC, said that all hands were on deck to make the competition a successful one that would usher in another historical dimension in Lagos football history. He said the competition was aimed at providing the platform for talented young children to actualize their dream of making a career in football. Shedding more light on the competition, he said: “I can assure you that the competition will get bigger every year. Even though people might want to underrate the competition, this year promises to be bigger as the first prize winner is to take home 75,000 naira”. “We are equally doing this to show that as the 4th tier of government, we can organize ourselves to do something worthwhile and contribute our own quota to the development of the society”. He added further. While eulogizing Ipaye, he said: “He’s one man who needs to be recognized, he has contributed a lot to the community. Despite his busy schedule, he has always created time to see the plights of Akoka CDA community members”. The DPO, Bariga Police Division, CSP Shamang Kalat, commended the activities of the CDA for the rigorous efforts put in place to make the competition a reality. He further implored the technical team to put in fairness and transparency in the football competition. He said: “Sport is source of unity, it gives us sense of identity”. The former Abia Warrior star, said playing football was something he was passionate about hence catching the young kids up at the age of 13 is a very laudable step promoted by the community. Ipaye, Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President and former Attorney General of Lagos State, in a live phone call conversation from Abuja, reiterated commitment to supporting the annual competition in his name. He further commended the organizing committee and the CDA for their efforts in making the event a reality. Meanwhile, head of the technical team, Mr. Babatunde Oluwo, assured the team was working assiduously to ensure a hitch-free football competition.