Mr Victor Oluwadamilere, an aide to former Minister of Communication, Mr Adebayo Shittu, on Wednesday dragged his former boss before the National Industrial Court, Abuja over alleged non-payment salaries. Oluwadamilere, who was Shittu’s media special assistant, is asking the court to compel the defendant to pay him N11.7 million, being salary arrears for 28 months. The plaintiff is also seeking the court’s declaration that the non-payment of his arrears of salaries was wrongful, illegal and unconstitutional. In addition, the plaintiff is seeking an order of the court directing the defendant to pay him N50 million as aggravated and general damages among other claims. The plaintiff in his statement of claim said he approached the court to seek redress upon the defendant’s termination of his appointment on March 14, 2018. He alleged that the defendant only paid him three times out if the 28 months he worked for him. According to him, defendant paid him N500, 000 twice, N1.3million once, making a total of N2.3 million. The plaintiff alleged that the defendant paid put him on a monthly N100, 000 salary as SA as against the approved federal government rate of N500, 000 for SA to Hon. Ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. At the resumed hearing on Wednesday, before Justice Benedict Kanyip, the plaintiff’s counsel, Mr Adewale Lawal, informed the court that the matter was for mention. The defence counsel, Mr Oluwafemi Davies-Awe, confirmed that though he had been served with all relevant court processes, he needs time to respond to the claimants’ averments. The judge adjourned the matter until Nov.13, for hearing. NAN reports that the claimant, Oluwadamilere in his statement of facts said he approached the court to seek redress upon the terminated of his appointment on March 14, 2018. NAN reports also that the claimant’s statement of facts revealed that he was paid N100,000 as his monthly salary contrary to the approved salaries and allowances for SAs to Ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which he claimed was N500,00. (NAN)