Lagos State Government has entered into an agreement with technocrats from Germany on knowledge transfer for occupational safety and health. The aim is to improve on the knowledge of safety advocacy programmes and transfer knowledge to millions of Nigerians. Speaking at the weekend in Alausa, Ikeja, while unveiling the idea behind the partnership, Lagos State Safety Commission Director-General/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mr. Hakeem Dickson expressed the commitment of the government to the safety of lives and property, hence the idea behind the improvement of the knowledge transfer for occupational safety and health. He said this would afford people the opportunity of safeguarding themselves in the event of emergencies, occurrences and unfortunate incidents. Dickson said the agency, in conjunction with the Safety Advocacy Empowerment Foundation (SAEF), met technocrats led by Dr. Christian Bechmann and Steven Timn from Germany, to improve on the knowledge of safety advocacy programmes. “The idea is to increase our methodology in the area of presentation because different methods will be used. Even those in secondary schools and undergraduates, by the time we train them in safety, it will enhance their employability,” he added. The director-general said the technocrats would start by training 50 people. He noted: “But only six of the number will end up studying in Germany before they return to the country to train about 23,000 people drawn across all sections of the nation, otherwise called train the trainers. This has been approved by the European Commission.” Head of Service Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola hailed SAEF on its proactive measures in getting the project on track. He said the training would prevent occupational hazards. SAEF President Dapo Omolade praised the commission for its commitment to the safety of everybody by supporting the activities and programmes that would promote safety, especially the knowledge transfer for Occupational Safety and Health programme (OSH) in Nigeria.