Why is there a rise in rape cases? It is because of moral decadence, seductive dressing, dwindling family bonding and children’s unrestricted access to electronic devices, say some lawyers. The lawyers, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Tuesday that the crime wave was worrisome. One of them, Spurgeon Ataene, said Nigerians should be concerned by the development. “Teaching of morals in schools is no longer emphasised. So, at the formative stage, children go astray, as they are allowed unlimited access to all manner of electronic devices. “Schools are no longer interested in corrective punishment; male teachers see nothing wrong in showing amorous affection for underage female pupils. “Parents see nothing wrong in children dressing seductively, families forget that bonding is key to good upbringing, and that a child needs to talk to parents in a way that confidence is engendered,” he said. Ataene said bullying a child would create fear in him or her, making the child unable to confide in the parent even when touched inappropriately. “Male children read, watch videos unrestricted,” he added. Ataene said workplaces and schools should emphasise decent dressing. A rights campaigner, Chief Malcolm Onirhobo, blamed the development on poor morals at home. “Some parents no longer teach their children what they should know, but focus on business and even spend hours on Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram and other social media networks. “General idleness on the part of the youth also plays a role, as an idle mind is the devil’s playground. Therefore, youths must be meaningfully engaged,” he said. Onirhobo called for enlightenment on steps to be taken after rape, such as exhibiting firsthand evidence of semen deposits, bruises and other physical signs on the victim. He said rape victims would speak out if well protected. Mr. Ayotunde Ologe attributed the problem to “culture of impunity and silence”. “Our culture seems to encourage rape, as you often hear some elders refer to underage girls as, `my wife’. “The culture of impunity often helps rapists to get away with the crime,” he said, adding that culture of silence often kept rape victims from speaking up. He advocated longer prison terms and castration of convicted rapists to curb the menace.