The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the four appeals filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the last governorship election in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke. The appeals by Adeleke and his party were against the May 9, 2019 judgments of the Court of Appeal, Abuja, which voided the majority judgment of the election tribunal and affirmed the election of Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the governor of Osun State. The four appeals were marked: SC/553/2019; SC/554/2019; SC/555/2019 and SC/556/2019. The Supreme Court, in a majority decision of five-to-two, read by Justice Olabode Rodes-Vivour, held that the majority judgment given by the election tribunal, in favour of Adeleke and the PDP, was a nullity. Justice Rhodes-Vivour held that the tribunal was not properly constituted when it gave its decision in view of the non-participation of one of the tribunal members in one of the sittings where trial was conducted and vital documents admitted in evidence. The judge, in the lead majority judgment, agreed with lawyer to Oyetola, Wole Olanipekun (SAN) that the failure of a member of the election tribunal, Justice Peter Obiora to sit on February 6, 2019 rendered the entire proceedings and the judgment given by the tribunal a nullity. The judgment by Rhodes-Vivour was on the appeal marked: SC/553/2019 which was directed at the Court of Appeal’s judgment in the appeal filed by Oyetola against the majority decision of the election tribunal. The court noted that Justice Obiora was absent on February 6, 2019 when the respondents witnesses (RWs) 12 and 13 – Ayoola Soji and Oladejo Kazeem – testified and tendered exhibits, which the tribunal admitted in evidence. The apex held that, having not attended the tribunal’s siting on February 6, 2019, Justice Obiora did not see the two witnesses and was unable to examine their demeanour, as required, and therefore, it was wrong for the judge to have authored a judgment in which he reviewed the evidence given by the witnesses. Justice Rhodes-Vivour added: “As rightly pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the first respondent, Chief Wole Olenipekun (SAN), learned counsel for the appellant, O. Ikpeazu (SAN) also held the view that Obiora J did not sit. on the 6th of February 2019. “At no time did Ikpeazu dispute the proceedings of the 6th of February2019. It was observed that, at the election tribunal, Obiora J signed the record of proceedings at the end of every proceeding, except on the 6th of February 2019 when he did not sign at the end of the proceedings.” Justice Rhodes-Vivour said, after examining the submissions of counsel and the record of appeal, “I hold the position that Obiora J did not sit on the said day. What then is the implication of that on the proceedings conducted and the judgment delivered by the tribunal? “The Supreme Court has always set aside the judgments of the trial courts where the panels have been irregular and inconsistent. “An examination of the record of appeal reveals that well over 90 persons gave evidence, and at the end of each day’s proceedings, three judges, which included Obiora J, signed. It was only the proceedings of the 6th of February 2009 that was not signed by Obiora J.
Continue on Page 2