The Chief Executive Officer, Jumia Nigeria, Ms Juliet Anammah, said the firm would leverage the power of the internet and data to redefine the way Africans live and work. Speaking during a ceremony to mark the seventh anniversary of the e-commerce giant in the country, she said in the last 12  months, the firm recorded significant milestones in the  areas of customer delivery experience, e-commerce reach and expansion, and job creation and empowerment. She said: “Jumia’s mission is to leverage the power of the internet and data to improve everyday life of Africans. Every year we push the boundaries in line with our mission.” According to her, among major achievements recorded include the nationwide expansion of its last mile delivery hubs to accommodate 33 new ones. Others include the integration of 25 new logistics partners to its network of partners, and the addition of four major local languages to assist customers place orders by phone. “These are deliberate efforts towards expanding the reach of e-commerce in rural cities where prepayment had been the only payment option, thereby expanding the footprint of payment on delivery to these cities. We have also observed that some of our customers prefer to interact with our customer service agents in their various native languages. In response, we have integrated the four major local languages – Hausa, Yoruba, Igbo, and Pidgin,” she added. Another strategic move towards improving delivery and helping to save money on shipping, Jumia also introduced for the first time in the the country, Jumia Prime package, a paid subscription package that enables customers to shop with zero shipping fees for a preset duration. Available in Lagos and Abuja, it will be extended to other cities in due course. With a Jumia prime subscription, there is no limit to how many orders a customer can make and get free shipping within the period covered in their subscription. Also, its Human Resources Lead, Mr Dele Awolala, said Jumia has created  jobs through its ecosystem which houses online services such as food delivery, hotel and flight booking, classified advertising, and airtime recharge. “We continue to see e-commerce as an enabler of job creation and empowerment. We have over 2,000 people directly employed in Nigeria and potentially another 850 through our ecosystem of partners.”