The Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) has earmarked N500 million as special social intervention fund for renovation projects and provision of infrastructure in universities, polytechnics, Government Colleges and secondary schools, its executive vice chairman , Prof Umar Garba Dambatta has stated. Dambatta, who disclosed this to reporters during the 2019 Kano Social Influencers’ summit, regretted that many state governments were not aware of such projects. According to him: “Well, maybe, many state governments are not aware of this special social intervention fund by the NCC. “Perhaps, I should make this information available at the disposal of those who are listening to this programme that the NCC has social intervention fund for 2020 to the tune of only N500 million.
“This is the in addition to interventions that we have been making in all spheres of human endeavour, especially in the universities, polytechnics, Government Colleges and Secondary schools. “This one is a special intervention fund, you know, that is dedicated to renovating schools, providing schools with furniture, you know, provision of boreholes in institutions, and so on and so forth. So, we call it special intervention.” He added: “We have defined the criteria, among which is we will assess and verify whether the intervention is really needed. “The application can be made, specifying the beneficiary institutions or entity is interested in. “We go and take a look, assess and evaluate whether that intervention is critical to the development and progress of the particularly institution that is making the request.
“So, we will be very happy to share information about the criteria. You know, it has not been very well spelt out as in, and in think perhaps, that has been the reason. “Another reason maybe that we are virtually intervening everywhere and this will be seen as nothing but an extension of the intervention projects of the NCC.” Delivering a keynote address during the summit, titled “The internet we want and the role of the regulator,” Dambatta noted that though the emergence of social media was designed for good intentions, its negative impacts in recent times is affecting not only socio-economic development but national security and political stability. He pointed out social media encourages competitiveness, innovative economy, participation in governance and national development, adding it has become a platform for hate-speech, abuse, slander and unnecessary attacks to personalities and the government. He however, clarified the fact it is not the responsibility of the NCC to regulate the contents of Social Media, pointing out “what NCC do is to provide the infrastructure for Social Media. “The Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC) is responsible for the regulation of the contents of the Social Media.”