Daughter of elder statesman, Reuben Fasoranti, Funke Olakunrin, was yesterday, reportedly shot dead by suspected kidnappers in Ore, headquarters of Odigbo Local Government Area of Ondo State. Sources said the deceased was coming from the Lagos end of the Benin/Ore road when her car was attacked by the kidnappers. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the State Police command, Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident. He said the suspects were kidnappers who also engaged in armed robbery. The incident happened between Kajola and Ore, he said, adding that Olakunrin was the only one killed in the incident. Joseph said three vehicles including a luxurious bus belonging to the Young Shall Grow Motors were attacked by the kidnappers, adding that the passengers in the luxurious bus were travelling from Imo State to Lagos. However, he said the police have rescued three of the victims, adding that one Gerald Igboroka was yet to be found by the police. Joseph said, “Information available to us is that suspected kidnappers who were 16 in number ambushed the three vehicles at Kajola. “The three vehicles were said to be going to Lagos and they were all attacked. The police shot on one Funke Olakunrin and she was confirmed dead immediately,” he added. The PPRO who said the Police were on the trail of the kidnappers, assured that the victims would be rescued in no distant time. He said none of the suspected kidnappers has been arrested, but efforts been made to ensure their arrest, saying that the police have already cordoned the location. Reacting to the incident, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, condemned it in very strong terms stressing that, it “is one death too many” and that, “It is unacceptable and condemnable.” In a statement signed on his behalf by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, he said: “This sad development once again, heightens the level of fear that has pervaded our Nation even as it represents a despicable commentary in all ramifications. To say the least, it represents an unenviable turning point, the depth of everything that is evil. “On behalf of the State Executive Council, the Governor symphatizes with our foremost leader and indeed the people of the State over this dastardly act . “However, the governor wishes to appeal to all and sundry to remain calm and allow the Police to unravel the perpetrators of this murder. Already, the Commissioner of Police has been directed to comb all forests of Ondo State to bring to book, these bloodthirsty murderers. There is no hiding place for such in Ondo State.”