The Senate yesterday resolved to seek immediate prosecution of the cartels responsible for planting illicit drugs in the luggage of travellers at airports. Miss Zainab Aliyu and others escaped death by the whiskers in Saudi Arabia, following the discovery of illicit drug planted in their luggage at the Aminu Kano International Airport in Kano. The prompt intervention of the Federal Government saved the victims from execution for an offence they did not commit. A motion by Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe (Kwara Central) stressed the need to strengthen security at the airports. The Upper Chamber insisted to ensure that the case is pursued to its logical conclusion. Those found culpable, the lawmakers said, should be punished to serve as deterrent to others in the habit of putting the lives of innocent Nigerians in danger. The Senate urged Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and other agencies to ensure that those presumed to be on duty at all times are held accountable. It mandated its Committee on Aviation, when constituted, to ensure legislative compliance. The lawmakers asked FAAN to install and use effective closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras and other security systems in all Nigerian airports to monitor their environments and avoid likely planting of illicit drugs and carrying out other illegal activities. They also resolved to compel FAAN to acknowledge only accredited personnel on duty to be allowed into restricted areas of the airports. In his lead debate, Oloriegbe recalled how, on May 1, Zainab Aliyu was arrested by Saudi Drug Enforcement Agency on allegation of drugs trafficking. He said the effort of Zamfara State governor to meet officials of Saudi Arabian Government to discuss how to release another victim, Zamfara-born Alaramma Ibrahim, who was in detention for almost two years over alleged drugs trafficking, was also reported. The senator said the innocent citizens were victims of circumstances as many of the situations would have been curtailed but for security lapses at Nigerian airports infiltrated by drug syndicates with easy access to planting illicit drugs on innocent travellers or their belongings. The Kwara Central senator said Miss Aliyu and two other Nigerians were saved from execution by the Saudi government due to the prompt intervention of the Nigerian Government after investigations proved that those being held had no knowledge of the drugs in their luggage. He accused some FAAN workers, the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), the police, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and other aviation security personnel of dereliction of duty and making the airports unsafe. Oloriegbe noted that if not checked, the actions of some of the airport personnel may continue to attract international embarrassment, loss of opportunities by Nigerians, especially outside the shores of the country. Senate President Ahmad Lawan said: “I had the opportunity to travel to Saudi Arabia for lesser hajj (Umrah) and during my trip, I was able to engage the embassy personal in Saudi Arabia. “We held discussions on what happened on the issue of Zainab Aliyu and the other person from Zanfara, Alarama, who were arrested. “The story was very pathetic and I decided that we must take every action that those responsible for planting those illicit drugs in their bags are prosecuted. Subsequently, last week, he invited the Inspector General of Police (IGP), the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of NDLEA and FAAN Managing Director to meet with the Senate. “We told them clearly that the National Assembly was not going to allow the case to be swept under the carpet.” According to him, the national Assembly received briefings from the NDLEA that it is in court with five suspects but the judge granted them bail. Lawan said it was discouraging that two of the five accused had travelled out of the country. “So, we insisted they must be brought back. The case was initially adjourned till June and we were told it was adjourned again till July and we say case must be completed expeditiously. “These people must be punished to serve as deterrent to anybody who toys with the lives of Nigerians. “With their action, so many Nigerians would have been executed innocently through the fault of others and not their own. “This motion is apt; it is timely. This Senate will go ahead to pursue this case to its logical conclusion. “I want to assure that this Senate will ensure that the lives and property of Nigerians are protected. That is why we are here.”  