With conversations centering on the resuscitation of the lost and almost forgotten African socio-cultural art forms, art historian Princess Theresa Iyase-Odozi is making waves with recollecting Edo historical wealth through her research travelling solo exhibition, BeninIconography.com. Art experts and journalists gathered at the Thought Pyramid Art Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos to assess her works, EVELYN OSAGIE reports. They came seeking a rebirth of imagery and symbolism in prehistoric Benin Iconography. The art experts, journalists, collectors and enthusiasts came from far and near. The melting point was the press preview and art discourse on Princess Theresa Oghogho Iyase-Odozi ‘s travelling historical solo royal art exhibition, christened BeninIconography.com. Leading the pack of knowledge seekers to the Thought Pyramid Art Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos, venue of the event, were renowned artist, Prof Bruce Onobrakpeya, and foremost art collector, Omooba Yemisi Shyllon. With the theme: Renaissance of imagery and symbolism in Benin iconography – Iyase-Odozi’s art appropriations in focus, the event opened a new vista of conversations on the significance and contemporary, beginning with a press preview that featured art journalists from leading media houses. It brought to the fore the efforts of the artist, Iyase-Odozi, who had put in three years of research into an art expedition, which would culminate in a travel exhibition, tagged: Princess Theresa Iyaze-Odozi royal travel Art Project.The project entitled: Uhunmwun Vbe and the Master of the Circled Cross in Benin Kingdom will hold  in October to mark the birthday of the Oba of Benin. “There is no better time than now to resuscitate the lost and almost forgotten Africa’s socio-cultural art forms, such as its iconographies. And for us to preserve such history and to document those things, there is need for a revamping, because since the 1897 rape of cultural hegemony of  Benin, a number of cultural activities died, and so, this is the appropriate time to continue with the revitalisation of the histories. “Of note is Princess’s attempt at taking into consideration the practice of theory and practice of theory. What Princess had done in this proposed edition is to look into cultural items of the Benin empire, and draw out histories and translate such history as what it meant at that time and to continue  being relevant in the present day in order to continue more researches into images and interpret them into the context that they are driven,” observed Dr. Kunle Filani of Federal College of Education (Technical)  Yaba, a panelist at the discourse. He called for the implementation of the cultural and education policies  to foster continuity of research and historical art project, such as Iyase-Odozi’s, adding that the cultural policy of 1988 demands review. He said: “Implementation is also a major problem. Leadership is indeed very significant in ensuring proper review and implementation of both the cultural and education policies. Bring in people who are in the line of, exposed and experienced in culture; and who are willing to build legacies, you will discover that things will change. Innovations in the Nigerian art sector are purely the ideas of artists, art scholars and students, and private initiatives. It is not so in  foreign country.” For Dr Mike Omoighe of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) School of Art, Design and Printing, this was a forgotten tradition that could be linked to “the fact that the king made it domiciled only in the palace. Even, when we are having these festivals, everything is confined to the palace. We have the University of Benin very close by in Ekewan Road. At the very best, you just see them using the motifs without any communicating contents or any intention to convey a particular message. They  use them as adornments. This is where this call today becomes very instructive for us. To once more consciously communicate using these signs and symbols to convey specific messages, and with time, people will get used to start reading and knowing them with what they actually stand for. “This art project is indeed a very great innovative. It is more or less the things that you’d expect institutions to embark on. And that Princess is kick-starting it, really is the best for Nigeria cultural platform. Benin iconography is the way of the people of the Benin Kingdom, and the ways they present their ideas in pictures, images, politics, religion, politics, music, dance and cultural living,” he said. For Onobrakpeya, who is celebrated for his adaptations of Africa’s iconographies into his art works, “there is this lamentation that Africa, South of Sahara has no written words/literature. Digging into the iconography in our arts has unveiled a lot of things that will bring knowledge of our past back together. With these iconographies, we are able to trace the roots around Africa. With symbols across Egypt, Togo and other places down to Urhoboland, which will tell a lot about us as time goes on. “Iyase-Odozi has gone to the grassroots to dig up something that will now be an inspiration to people who love the great art. Art is not just drawing or making pictures, it is using ideas and digging the knowledge stored in the communities out, and bring the past out again. Let’s leave the school and the government out of this, leave the sponsors out of it and use the initiative you have to turn our cultural practices into acceptable something. Let’s teach young people the value of our items, so they can use them and promote them.” It was with a mind of sparking off such academic and art discourse/study on Benin Iconography and its relevance to modern art and fashion sector that the artist embarked on the artistic expedition which would culminate in a travel exhibition, tagged: Princess Theresa Iyaze-Odozi Travel Art Project, entitled: Uhunmwun Vbe And The Master of The Circled Cross In Benin Kingdom. According to Iyase-Odozi, who was supervised by Dr. J. Ajewole, she had been fascinated by these iconographies for and even sought to find the link between the batik tradition in Osogbo and Benin, while working closely and travelling with renowned batik designer and painter Nike Davis-Okundaye. She said: “This project seeks to revive the waning batik clothing culture in Benin and thereby impart some aspects of Benin culture to the younger generation through empowerment programmes. Through this exposition/exhibition, a general awareness and publicity for the  appropriations over 500 years old, of rich Benin iconographies found on ancient artefacts has been created. “We would be moving to Benin in October to commemorate the Oba’s birthday. The exhibition and discourse are to provoke further studies and research on the Benin iconography in art practice. We have 45 works but only four are shown here. For the art installation, we have 15-feet wide of a mixed media painting of the Oba with the ivory tusks.” Samples of her paintings and other art accessories hung on the gallery’s hall. While a visual artist and a lecturer at the Department of Creative Arts, University of Lagos (UNILAG), where Princess is a Ph.D student, Bolaji Ogunwo compered the event, The Nation Newspaper Assistant Editor (Art s) Mr Ozolua Kally Uhakheme, moderated the discourse session that also featured Kehinde Adepegba of the Department of Art and Technical Studies, Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu. Uhakheme wondered if “scholars have ever interrogated why Benin with its rich culture that is akin to that of the Yorubas is less known in textile design? Whereas the Yorubas thrive in that sector with distinct iconographies as demonstrated in adire markets at Osogbo and Itoku in Abeokuta, same cannot be said of Benin. “Again, have we read about the “Master of Circled Cross of the ancient Benin Kingdom” in Barbara Plankensteiner’s Benin King and Ritual (2007)? The 535 page-book is worthy of reading.” While Adepegba decried the impact of religious sentiments to art appreciation, Shyllon urged the discourse be taken to the public glare, especially schools of all levels. Art promoter, Sandra Mbanefo Obiago, urged: “Stop complaining or capitalising on the negative sides of the country. The challenge for scholars and the academia is to convert these art knowledge and works into the internet for easy access because, the youths of nowadays are essentially online generation. The investment by private sectors will make art works attractive to people and even the government may then see sense in what the artists are doing, an example is Nollywood.” The BeninIconography.com project team includes Mr Uhakheme, Mr Odozi, Mr Ogunwo, Mr Olojo-Kosoko Kolawole, Evelyn Osagie, Mariam Okundalaye and Chinedu Okoye. 