The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described as blasphemous the demand made by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the Supreme Court to reverse its judgment on the Zamfara State elections. The main opposition party also said the move was an attempt to blackmail and set a land mine for the apex court, with intent to ambush and destroy the integrity of the court. Recall that the APC had approached the Supreme Court pleading with the court to reverse its decision quashing the validity of its victory in all elective positions in the last general election and awarding same to the PDP. In a statement Monday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP added that the motive of the APC was to sequester the institution of the judiciary and foist a totalitarian order on the polity. “It is also instructive to note that by asking the Supreme Court to embark on a journey to nowhere, the APC clearly sought to subvert our democratic system and surreptitiously force on Nigerians, a system that is completely alien to our constitutional democracy and outside the confines and dictates of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “APC’s demand is a direct threat to our democracy, peace and stability of our nation and shows its unwillingness, as a party, to abide by the rule of law. “It also exposes APC’s penchant for sowing crisis in our nation; a situation that should be condemned by all”, the party said. The PDP commended the Supreme Court for refusing to succumb to the pressure by the APC to review and reverse its lawful and well-founded judgment. The party said by its action, the Supreme Court has once again saved the nation from a huge constitutional crisis that could have devastated the nation’s constitutional democracy and corporate existence. The party urged well-meaning Nigerians, institutions of democracy, as well as the security agencies to be cautious of the APC, saying that the ruling party has shown that it is not committed to the unity and stability of the nation.