A leading lender, Standard Chartered , has said the future of banking is in digitalisation. It,  therefore, plans to accelerate the momentum of its digital strategy bank across Africa in a multi-market launch in order to expand with the growing economy and population. Its Regional Chief Executive Officer, Africa and Middle East, Sunil Kaushal, said the  digital banking solution provides the bank’s customers across Africa with affordable, convenient, fast and easily accessible bank services. “The growing population of Africa is demanding faster and more convenient banking and it has been very rewarding to witness increased acceptance and a growing demand for our digital products across the continent. As a result, we are delighted to expand our digital banking experience across three new African markets. As a leading international bank in Africa, Standard Chartered is committed to supporting the continent’s technological transformation by reshaping the banking industry and breaking down traditional barriers. We look forward to continuing the momentum across Africa and continuing to provide our customers with advanced banking experiences,” he said. He said the bank will continue its digital expansion in African markets with another launch planned in September for Nigeria.  This plan of expansion in Africa is necessitated by the need  to give wider access to digital services  most especially in Africa which is growing in its economy as well as its population. Although Nigeria is set for social banking solution launch in September, digital banking is available in Botswana, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Standard Chartered is set to launch in Kenya, Uganda, Ghana and Tanzania, Kaushal said. By digitalising the entire banking experience, customers will be able to enjoy simple, secure, affordable and interruptive banking anytime, anywhere. Active customers of the digital bank will also be eligible to receive loyalty and promotions. Kaushal further said in just under 15 months, the bank  has launched its digital banks in eight markets across sub-Saharan Africa with impressive results. In Côte d’Ivoire, the digital bank has exceeded initial expectations with 18,000 new account openings; in Uganda it has seen an eight-fold increase in new account openings, whilst in Tanzania it has signed up more new customers since launching last year. In its continued efforts to meet the rising demands of Africa’s young and digitally-savvy population, Standard Chartered also launched SC Keyboard, which allows customers to access a variety of financial services from within any social or messaging platform without having to open the Banking app.  Initially launched in Kenya, Uganda, Ghana and Tanzania, the solution is a first for the Bank in Africa and will be rolled out to Botswana, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Nigeria throughout the rest of the year. The Regional Head of Retail Banking, Africa and Middle East, Jaydeep Gupta said: “Following the additional rollouts of our online retail banks across Africa, SC Keyboard is an important milestone in our digital journey. SC Keyboard was designed with our clients in mind, as users can now pay their bills, view their account balances and transfer money to their friends or family through any social or messaging platform. Increased prosperity has made the African population more financially savvy and many users seek new and easy ways to handle their money,” Gupta said.