Following a default crisis that led to the recall of its two batches of 75cl, Eva premium table water has been certified safe for consumption by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). This seal of assurance came in the wake of an investigation by the agency into the products of the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC), makers of Eva water and a range of soft drinks. NAFDAC said it had deployed its entire regulatory arsenal into the investigation before concluding that there is no cause for alarm, assuring the Nigerian public of the safety of Eva water. In a statement signed by the Director-General of the agency, Mojisola Adeyeye, it was claimed that a thorough investigation, which was supported with laboratory analysis, proved the safety of the bottled water. “Following discovery of a default in two lots of Eva bottled water (75cl pack size) produced between May 22 and 23, 2019 at the NBC ultra-modern factory at Asejire in Ibadan, the company immediately initiated a recall of the affected lots and voluntarily notified NAFDAC as is expected of every responsible quality-driven organisation with high priority for Food Safety and safety of its consumers. “After a thorough investigation of the company’s processes supported with detailed laboratory analysis of the water and all other products produced at the factory, NAFDAC is satisfied that adequate corrective and preventive actions are in place to guarantee the quality and safety of Eva water and indeed all Coca Cola products that are registered by NAFDAC. It is important to highlight that there is no cause for alarm, as the laboratory reports did not indicate any health threat; the recall was purely precautionary and it is standard food safety practice all over the world,” Adeyeye said. It would be recalled that the agency had directed the NBC to recall some batches of Eva water due to public complaints last month. At the time of the directive, NAFDAC said the decision to recall one of Nigeria’s most popular brands of bottled water was merely a result of precautionary step. According to NAFDAC, NBC had voluntarily reported on June 20 that the colour of the product changed from colourless to light green and there was presence of particles in two lots. The NBC has, however, assured all consumers of all its products, stressing that quality and safety remain the guiding philosophy of its product design and output. In June, the NBC admitted that it had moved to protect public safety by voluntarily notifying NAFDAC of the discovery that some batches of Eva water did not meet its production requirements. “As noted in the alert, on June 20, 2019 NBC voluntarily notified NAFDAC of two batches of Eva Water (75cl) produced from May 22 to 23, 2019 in our Asejire Plant (one of our eight manufacturing plants across the country), which did not meet our quality standards. “We had commenced the withdrawal of the affected batches, which are 220519.14.27 AC4 and 230519.15.15 AC4 (these numbers can be found around the neck of the bottle), before the NAFDAC announcement and are cooperating with the agency in its investigation. We regret the inconvenience this issue may have caused our consumers, and we request consumers in possession of products with the stated batch numbers to return them to our nearest offices or distributors/dealers for replacement,” the company said. The NBC, however, assured consumers that there were no issues with other batches of Eva Water or any other products from its stable. “We confirm that other batches of our premium Eva Water are safe to drink and reassure our consumers of our commitment to the highest quality standards, product safety and consumer,” it said.