Have you ever wondered why two people tend not to have the same point of view? Have you ever wondered how two people can look at the same thing and yet have such divergent opinions? Have you ever listened to people argue on something “stupid” and yet they are so vehement on their positions? A wise person once said, “Walk a mile in my shoes, see what I see, hear what I hear, feel what I feel, THEN maybe you’ll understand why I do what I do; ’till then don’t judge me”. I think one of the major challenges we have as humans is that we overestimate what we know and what we can do. Somehow, we have come to believe that our way is the only way a thing can be done and we believe our views are the only reasonable ones. That is okay in as much as we don’t feel compelled to impose our views on others, which unfortunately a lot of us do. Just as we have a right to our views, others do too. I love the quote above because it is not absolute. Take a look at the it again; did you notice the word “maybe”? The author is saying the fact that you walk in my shoes, see through my eyes and hear through my ears doesn’t guarantee that you will understand me. That is because those actions are nothing but actions. What makes the difference is not the action but the attitude. What you look at is not as important as how you look at it. Dale Carnegie says you can’t win an argument because when you lose you lose and when you win you lose; what is the gain of winning and feeling self-important while you have lost the other person? According to Dale, when you convince someone against his will, not only will he remain of the same opinion, he will also seek an opportunity to get even. That is because his pride has been hurt. Think about it, what is more important to you- to win an argument or to achieve your purpose? It is easier to resolve conflicts when you focus on the issues rather than on persons. An American quote reads, “The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have”.  Another valuable quote reads, “Discussions are always better than arguments because an argument is to find out who is right, and a discussion is to find out what is right”. When you respect the perspective of other people, you leave room for agreement to be reached. Here are a few challenges of not being willing to entertain the opinion or perspectives of others: Thanks for reading my article today. I would really love to hear from you. So, do share your views with me by sending SMS to 07034737394, visiting www.olanreamodu.com and following me on twitter @lanreamodu. Remember, you are currently nothing compared to what you can become. This can be your year if you want it to be!