CELEBRITIES circle is where you find the best dressed, the finest and even the ‘baddest’ males. But that also is where you find the hottest, freshest and the most eligible bachelors! From handsome blokes to super-gorgeous gentlemen, these actors, singers, on-air personalities and models all have a few significant things in common: they are hot, single, searching and ready to mingle. Jim Iyke Nollywood actor, entrepreneur and master of sublime and action-packed lover boy roles, Jim is gorgeous, dashing and super talented. His strength? His piercing eyes and well buffed body. Two-word description: smooth operator. Don Jazzy Michael Collins Ajereh, better known as Don Jazzy, is a Nigerian music producer, singer, songwriter and entrepreneur. He’s spiritedly handsome in that pleasant mummy’s boy kind of way, and that perhaps explains why he’s everyone darling. The founder of Mavin Records prefers to keep his relationships low-key but he likes to say that he is searching. Two words: Disarmingly friendly. Alex Ekubo Multi-talented Nigerian actor Alex was first runner up at the 2010 Mr Nigeria contest. He won the Best Actor in a Supporting Role award at the 2013 Best of Nollywood Awards for his role in Weekend Getaway. His strengths? He is gorgeous almost to a fault and quite handsome. One word: beautiful. Eyinna Nwigwe Nigerian actor and producer, Eyinna Nwigwe, is best known for his faultless interpretation of the lead role in blockbuster movie, The Wedding Party. Nwigwe is handsome, dashing super down to earth. Nwigwe began his career as a runway and print model before transitioning to acting. Two words: rugged simplicity. Iyanya That distinctive body is almost as cute as his smile. Iyanya is a Nigerian recording artist and performer. He rose to fame after winning the first season of Project Fame West Africa, and is best known for his hit single Kukere. Strengths? A body that will make most women drool. Ikechukwu Nigerian singer, rapper, and actor-Ikechukwu Onunaku, popularly known as Killz or IK is still on the singles market. One word: fun. Uti Nwachukwu Uti Nwachukwu is one of the few men alive who can rock Superman spandex and look damn sexy doing it. Sir Uti is a Nigerian Actor, model and OAP. Also, he was a winner of Big Brother Africa. Two words: royal freshness. Bryan Okwara What can we say? Bryan Okwara is super gorgeous and he knows it! Beautiful-man Bryan is a Nigerian actor and model who won the title of Mr. Nigeria in 2007 and reached the semi-finals in the Mister World 2007 competition. Three-word description: Too much ‘fineness’. Flavour Not only is he hot now and ruggedly handsome too. Chinedu Okoli, better known by his stage name Flavour, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and performer. Flavour is single, but he has two daughters.Two words: fine bobo. Praiz R and B singer, songwriter and producer, Praise Ugbede Adejo, is super handsome and seems like a sweet guy. He is incredibly talented and creative, finishing as the runner-up at the maiden Project Fame show. One word: soulful. Timaya He’s not only nicely handsome and charming, Timaya is also an incredibly talented artist and he loves keeping it real, even on social media. He has never been married, but he has three children from previous relationships. One word: down-to-earth. Two? Teddy bear.lol Harrysong Hit maker, Harrison Tare Okiri is as talented as he is good-looking. Better known by his stage name Harrysong, he is a Nigerian singer, songwriter and instrumentalist who rose to fame after his tribute song to Nelson Mandela won the “Most Downloaded Callertune Award” at The Headies 2013. Strengths? His voice.