There was mild drama at the Senate investigative hearing of the alleged assault leveled against Senator Elisha Abbo. The embattled Adamawa North Senator boasted that he was not afraid of suspension. The upper chamber had last week resolved to constitute an ad-hoc committee to probe allegation of assault against Senator Abbo at an Abuja sex toy shop. The investigation degenerated when Senator Abbo appeared before the seven-member committee and declined to talk on the matter. Abbo claimed that the case for which he was being investigated was in court. The embattled senator noted that even if he wanted to speak on the mater, he would prefer to talk in camera. Members of the committee, who appeared infuriated by the defiance attitude of Senator Abbo, insisted that it was not in the place of Abbo dictate to the committee. Abbo’s reaction further angered members of the committee. They told him of the consequence of his action and asked him to comply. Senator Abbo insisted that he can’t be threatened with suspension. He said, “I cannot talk because the matter is in court. Why should I be talking before the camera. I cannot talk. Abbo continued: “I cannot be speaking before this committee because that would be subjudice since the matter under investigation is already before the court. So, why should I be facing the camera. A member of the committee, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, told the committee that the embattled Senator cannot dictate to the committee. She reminded Abbo that he could be suspended as a result of what transpired in the video that went viral. Tinubu said: “Distinguished, we want to tell you that you are just joining us. We also have have a procedure. “What we are doing , we are doing it as a legislature . Everybody deserves a fair hearing. What is going on with you, affects us as a body. That is why the Senate President constituted this committee. You can see the level and integrity of members of the committee. “You don’t come here and dictate to us, the procedure we are supposed to follow. “You are undermining us by trying to do that. You are not evening listening to us. “Even if we are going beyond what you expect, you can’t stop us. Do you want us to protect you, defend you or do you want to be on your own? Apparently angered by Senator Tinubu’s comment, Abbo said, “you cannot threaten me with suspension. It is not out of place for me to say am not addressing the press. “I came because I received a text message from the committee.” He continued, “I will talk to the media. I should address the committee in closed door.” Committee members however agreed that Senator Abbo should speak to the committee behind closed doors. Before the committee went into a closed session, Senator Abbo said that he decided to apologize last week in order to protect the institution of the Senate. He added that the matter happened before he became the Senator of Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said that the incident has been over taken by events. Counsel to the victim of the assault, Solola &Akpana who appeared before committee informed the panel that the victim was in the hospital. He claimed that they did not know hen she was going to leave the hospital. The counsel declined to make any statement on the matter. Senator Abbo was caught on camera assaulting a woman at an adult toy shop in Abuja. The alleged assault was said to have happen on May 11, 2019.