A  life without love is not a story to tell.  All humans need to be loved and to love starting from birth and ending in death.  We are social beings and normally part of a society.  In order for our appetites, passions, and emotions to work optimally, the family is compulsory; the workplace or business is compulsory; the faith community is compulsory; the world is compulsory. I just heard a commentator on TV say that the strongest man is the one who can control himself, not the man who controls others.  In the same vain, one who cannot direct himself well can hardly direct others well. Appetites, passions, and emotions are safest when love is their end.  By love, we are not fixed on sexual gratification.  By love, we mean tending towards the good and pleasure of a person, be it self, be it spouse, be it child, be it parent, be it boss, be it subordinate, be it colleague, be it citizen, be it servant, be it master, be it ruler, be it stranger, be it pastor, be it follower, be it rich man, be it poor man, be it the sick, be it the healthy, but most especially love of God, the source of humanity.  Appetites, passions, and emotions are best when love is their end. Many questions are asked about what is wrong and what is right about our appetites, passions, and emotions.  Possibly, no amount of science, no amount of philosophy, no amount of theology, no amount of sociology, and no amount of reasoning will ever answer these questions. One thing that is clear and unfailing is that appetites, passions, and emotions are best served on a plate of love.  Without love, they are toxic to the world. With love, they are tonic to the world. On appetites, one may ask oneself: how many university degrees should I acquire, how many cars should I collect, house many houses should I own, how much wealth should I amass, how many titles should I hold, how many positions should I be in, how many friends should I have, how much money should I keep, how soon should I get what I want or need, how should I get what I want or what I need?  There may be no answer as sure as love. St Augustine of Hippo said, “love and do what you will”.  You can never be wrong in love. You can always be blameless if your end is love.  Love of self, love of neighbour, and love of God are the ends of human appetites in a world of peace and progress.  None of these loves is unimportant and none of these loves should be undeveloped. On passions, one may ask oneself: what am I doing with my life, what am I doing with my time, what am I doing with my health, what am I doing with my possessions, what am I doing with my education, what am I doing with my talents, what am I doing with my pedigree, what am I doing with my nationality, what am I doing with my opportunities, what am I doing with my experience, what am I doing with my environment, what am I doing with my money, what am I  doing with my capabilities? There may be no answer as sure as love. Mahatma Gandhi said “Live as if you were to die tomorrow”. You can never be wrong in love. You can always be blameless if your end is love.  Love of self, love of neighbour, and love of God are the ends of human passions in a world of freedom and happiness.  None of these loves is unimportant and none of these loves should be ignored. On emotions, one may ask oneself: why am I angry, why am I happy, why am I sad, why am I envious, why am I malicious,  why am I  empathetic, why am I vengeful, why am I vicious, why am  I cheerful, why am I fearful, why am I  ashamed, why am I excited, why am I surprised, why am I  disgusted? How often do I have positive emotions – that are pleasant? How often do I have negative emotions – that are unpleasant? How do I balance my emotions?  How do people affect me, temporarily or permanently?  How does the environment affect me, temporarily or permanently? There may be no answer as sure as love or the lack of love. Martin Luther King, Jr. said: “We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools.” You can never be wrong in love. You can always be blameless if your end is love.  Love of self, love of neighbour, and love of God are the ends of human emotions in a world of diversity and unity.  None of these loves is unimportant and none of these loves should be un-practiced. Whatever is going on outside of oneself, whether within one’s family, workplace, faith community, society or the world, one must first of all take care of whatever is going on inside of one’s self.  We each need to be a building block of a good society. Love is known as a divine commandment and should be taught our children.  It makes the difference between whether a person lives as a child of the world or a child of God.  The appetites, passions, and emotions are in the end, our tools of love. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635