The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), has warned newly inducted pharmacists to avoid unethical professional conduct or risk the withdrawal of their certificate by the council The Registrar of PCN, Elijah Mohammed gave the warning in Nsukka on Saturday during the induction of  188  fresh graduates of Faculty of  Pharmaceutical Science   University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) 2017/2018 session  into the council. Elijah said the council would not hesitate to sanction any member who failed to  adhere to the ethics of the profession as pharmacy is a noble profession. “Any member found guilty of any professional misconduct risk the withdrawal of his or her practicing certificate from the council. “PCN abhors professional misconduct in its entirety,  you must respect the code of  conduct of the profession,,’ he said. Mohammed described Pharmacy as a good  profession that guaranteed  graduates great opportunities and prospects of practicing in different fields of life. “Ensure you take your one  year internship serious and do not insist it must be in government establishment  because of the big money you will be paid as any opportunity lost will not be regained,” he said. The registrar told the inductees that any  pharmacist was  legally responsible for any drug he or she dispensed to any patient. “I made a mistake in dispensing wrong  drugs to a patient  will not be accepted as excuse  by  PCN or law court because you must know u  are dealing with the  life of human beings. “Avoid making quick money by involving in manufacturing and selling of fake drugs,  if you are caught you will be handed over to police for prosecution. “The best way  to  make genuine quick money is through hardwork, being focused and having absolute faith in God, ” he advised. Prof Charles Igwe,  the Vice-Chancellor of UNN congratulated  the graduates  for their hardwork and commitment that made it possible for them to be inducted into PCN. Igwe urged them to be good ambassadors of the university by adhering to the ethics of the pharmacy profession  as well as being patriotic  to the country. “I congratulate fresh inductees to PCN, especially Ms Amarachi Mbah the best graduating pharmacist who is also the best graduating student of UNN in 2017/2018 session. “I commend parents  of new inductees for investing on their children education which is the best gift parents can give to  their children in this 21st century,”  he said. The VC  disclosed that,  the university had approved and released funds to furnish the  newly built pharmaceutical faculty complex so as to make staff and students more comfortable. Earlier,  Prof Anthony Attamah  the Dean of Faculty of Pharrmactical Science of UNN,   applauded Igwe for his quick  intervention  in the problem of the faculty as soon as he assumed office as the 15th VC of the university on June 14. “Sir the entire faculty is grateful for your timely intervention which made this oath-taking ceremony  today possible. “We  are grateful that since you assumed office you have been giving special attention to issues concerning Faculty of  Pharmaceutical Science,” he said. Attamah said he was delighted to announce  to the  guests and university community that the faculty would  start the Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm D)  programme next academic  session 2019/2020. “The long awaited Doctor Pharmarcy programme will start  next academic session as all  approval from relivant authorities have been gotten by the faculty,” he said. The dean commended the newly inductees for their doggedness, and resilience adding that,  the inductees  were found worthy both in character and learning. ” I congratulate the 188  graduates for their induction into  the prestigious PCN. “In a special way, I  salute Ms Mary Mbah for being the best graduating pharmacist of 2017/2018 academic session,”he said. The dean  however,  solicited support from guests, parents and philanthropist to help  the faculty in equipping laboratories, furnishing of  offices as well as providing teaching aids.