Documentary photographer Philips Akwari has become a leading ambassador of the ancient city of Abiriba in Abia State. His pictures promote the culture, beauty, festival and people of the place as seen in his travel exhibition, “The Rich Abiriba Heritage’’. The exhibition is moving from Lagos to the Thought Pyramid Art Centre in Abuja. In this chat with EVELYN OSAGIE, Akwari speaks on his voyage into documenting the place and more. My voyage into photography I started photography as a student ever before I gained admission as an undergraduate in 1997, working in the customer service department of a photo lab at Aba, Abia State. It was owned by one of my uncles. From there, I picked interest when customers have issues and come to me with their complaints. I’d explained to them in my own layman understanding based on what I had been told (Laughs). After a while, I bought my first camera in 1998, and then became my class photographer in the University of Nigeria, Nsukka where I studied Geography in between 1997 and 2001. Each time we went for field work, I would take pictures of landscapes and places of interest and sell to my lectures and classmates. That was how I started, but I did not go into it as a profession until 2011 when I decided to make it a career.  Then I travelled to India to study photography and came back in 2013, and did not waste time in taking pictures. Some of my exhibited pictures were dated as far back as that time.  Correcting misconception about the Abiriba festivals through photos The part of the story that is coming to the world now is the true story of Abiriba from the pictures. If there are places that human beings were killed, they would have been viewed by guests at the exhibition. Chinua Achebe said “If you don’t tell your stories, other people will tell it for you”. And a lot of people will be very reckless in telling your stories. That is why I am doing what I do, so as to have a position for us to be able to tell our stories. At the exhibition of His Majesty, Eze Kalu Kalu Ogbu, the Enachioken of Abiriba took out time to explain each of the pictures, and a lot of what he said are very deep stories, some of which I heard for the first time. Like the origin of the Nzu – it’s my first time I would know that the essence of the Nzu was to get people coming back to the community. I just taught it is a culture of the Abiriba people to receive people with the Nzu as an emblem of peace You see, the Nzu is a white chalk we use for ceremonies. If you enter an Abiriba man’s house and you come in peace, even if nobody offers you the Nzu, you’ll dip your hands into it and rub on your hands to show that you came in peace. The offering of the Nzu to a visitor also means he or she is welcomed. An Abiriba man first offers the Nzu, before the kola.  Challenges documenting Abiriba since 2013 The major challenge encountered during the documentary is the ignorance of people towards what one was doing, when they’d see one carrying camera around, but that was not the main challenge. The main one for me, was not being able to come out with what I intended in my book because I was constrained by finance in producing my work. And it is the same everywhere I travel, including Lagos – I can work at anytime and any place, but the cost of producing the picture cum history books are very expensive.  My voyage towards  the exhibition  I have been taking these photos since 2013. I did not start as someone wanting to do an exhibition. I just wanted to tell our stories. That was what was paramount in my mind when I started going round the community taking pictures that caught my attention, like artefacts, monumental structures and others. Abiriba looks like a gallery and the cultural festivals are like carnivals. Every place you’d go, you’d see something. At a point, I started working on a book on the place. When the idea of the exhibition came, I just pulled out a few pictures from the book, which means the exhibited photos are a smaller nomenclature of the larger photobank to be featured in a book we have been working on since 2013. This is actually my first in the Abiriba stories. And I exhibited 36 works. After here, we are moving to Abuja and I know we will have more coming.  My Abiriba photo book project  The book is actually ready, in terms of editing and design. What we are looking for is sponsorship.  On taking the exhibition back to Abiriba It would interest you to note that this Abiriba stories is also strange to some Abiriba people. Some of them are hearing it and seeing the pictures for the first time. There are some living in Lagos and other parts of the world who hardly go home, so it might be that only those living in Abiriba will know the stories. I’m already in talks with some people interested in the project – at least two people, including the Eze, are currently discussing with me on to bring the exhibition back home especially during the Yuletide which is a period that lots of people visit home.  Mentoring the young  Let me first of all say that I am a mentee myself of the Nlele institute (Laughs). But I mentor the young well – so far I have trained up to 30 people in photography in the skills acquisition scheme we run in our church and it is free. All you just need to do is to go to the church, pick the form and join. 