Operatives of the Lagos State Rapid Response Squad (RRS) have arrested one of the robbers who attacked a television presenter on July 12. The suspect, Timileyin Adebayo, 23, claimed he earned N8,000 after each operation. He and his colleagues, Olabanji, Ahmed and Lekan, were said to have robbed the unnamed female presenter while pretending to be passengers in a tricycle. They were said to have used knives and cutlasses to dispossess the woman of her phones and handbag containing other belongings. In his statement to the police, Adebayo said: “The operation was my fifth robbery with the gang. I joined them this month. For each operation, they gave me N8,000 only. No matter what we made, that was the amount they gave me. They gave me this amount maybe because I’ve just joined them. They don’t treat me as a colleague at all. “I was asked to join the gang by one of them after one of their members pulled out. They had been operating for a long time before I joined them. I was a bus conductor, I had no job. They promised to assist me and invited me to join the gang. “We robbed between Ogba and Ikeja. We used two knives and short cutlasses. I snatched phones and other belongings from our victims.” The female presenter, according to the police, was robbed around 10pm after she boarded the tricycle at Coca-Cola en route to Ogba. “They were all men. I didn’t suspect anything because there were other ‘keke’ there. I noticed that as soon as the driver linked Wempco Road, the two passengers at the back and the one sitting in front brought out knives and a cutlass and threatened to kill me if I did not co-operate. “They snatched my two phones,  handbag, jewellery and money. I can’t even recollect how much it was. Then, they pushed me out of the ‘keke’ while speeding. “I was struggling to get up, to avoid being crushed by oncoming vehicles, when one motorcyclist stopped and assisted me. We chased the robbers and caught up with them on Akilo Road, Ogba.  Unfortunately for us, they used their ‘keke’ to hit us. “Then RRS patrol team saw us and chased the robbers. They abandoned their ‘keke’ and fled, but one of them (pointing to the suspect) was arrested,” the presenter said. Police spokesman Bala Elkana said yesterday in a statement in Ikeja that a tricycle and a dagger were recovered from the gang, adding that Commissioner Zubairu Muazu has ordered the arrest of the fleeing suspects. The Nation learnt that the matter has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID).