Residents of communities linked by Lagos-Badagry Expressway on Wednesday protested at the office of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. They demanded removal of checkpoints and beginning of palliative work on the road. The residents lamented that the promises made by the governor during the campaign have not been fulfilled 60 days after assuming office. The protesters, who carried placards bearing inscriptions such as: “Remember, Badagry is still part of Lagos”, “Badagry road deserves more attention”, “Good road is not a luxury for necessity” and others, vowed to continue their protest until the government yielded to their demands. The protesters led by the President, Society for Human Advancement and Creativity Organisation, Akande Mark, and Fix Lagos-Badagry Expressway Mass Movement, led by Sewanu Michael, barricaded the entrance to the governor’s office at Alausa. In a letter containing their demands, presented to Sanwo-Olu, the protesters demanded that for them not to cause any mayhem on the road, the governor should immediately order removal of illegal checkpoints on the road. According to them, “these checkpoints have become an eyesore and a disgrace to the nation, compared to other neighbouring countries.” They also demanded that the governor should immediately commence palliative work on the road, while major reconstruction continues, adding: “We request a strong commitment from the government on the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the road. “That the government should desist from engaging in double standard attention on issues relating to Badagry as against other parts of Lagos and remove all impediments obstructing the reconstruction of the road.” Addressing the protesters, Sanwo-Olu, represented by Mr. Hundeyin Kolawole, political director, Office of Civic Engagement, assured the protesters that their demands would be addressed. House of Assembly Speaker Mudasiru Obasa, who was represented by Gbolahan Yishau, said the House would deliberate on the issues raised by the protesters at plenary.