In less than three months after going live, MeCure SmartBuy, a complete healthcare mobile app that enables free tele-consultation with doctors along with home delivery of medicines and healthcare products in Lagos, has received more than 34,000 registrations. As the numbers suggest, the app, which is available on both Android and iOS smartphones, has attracted massive interest from consumers in Lagos as it aims to provide easy access to healthcare. Launched on March 25 this year, the app offers tele-consultations with its panel of doctors completely free of cost. “Our vision with SmartBuy is to provide access to primary healthcare services in the most affordable and convenient way possible. Traditionally, access to top quality doctors has been the very first problem for all of us. We are resolving this by removing barriers using technology. If you are sick today, just download the app and book a tele-consultation with our panel of qualified doctors. They will give you a call, assess your health condition and advise on the way forward. In case a physical examination is needed, they will refer you to a qualified doctor closest to you. For simple, ailments that can be treated with over-the-counter medication, consumers can get it home delivered within two and three hours anywhere in Lagos,” said Dr. Adekunle Megbuwawon, chief medical officer at the company. With 1000-plus tele-consultations booked and 1200-plus medicine orders already placed by users on the platform, the app has enjoyed a huge traction, which the diagnostic service provider said it is proud of.  “To be honest, we did not expect this kind of interest at such an early stage. It is quite overwhelming considering the fact that we have not spent a naira yet on marketing the product. All credit goes to our team of doctors, in-house pharmacists and delivery agents who are working very hard to ensure quality consultation is provided and the required medicines are delivered within the shortest possible timeframe to our customers,” said Adil Shaikh, chief technology officer at MeCure. Apart from free doctor tele-consultations, the app also offers heavy discounts on almost all medicines and even daily essential healthcare products. Also, users receive incentives for making purchases on the app in the form of naira credits, which they can use for utility services such as mobile recharges, electricity bill payments and a host of other services. These incentives seem to be very lucrative to users as well and have helped to grow the user base in a very short span. According to the company, the app, which is easily downloadable from the company’s website, will be rolled out in other parts of the country in a phased manner to ensure a smooth and consistent customer experience.