The permanent secretary, Lagos State Primary Health Care Board, Dr.  Tayo Lawal, has said that the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will restructure healthcare delivery system in the state. He explained that this expected upgrade will come through comprehensive renovation of existing primary health centres (PHCs) as part of the drive to put confidence in the system and increase access to healthcare services. Lawal, who stated this in his office  while reviewing the report of the present state of primary health facilities in Lagos, reiterated that one of the core policy objectives of the present administration in the health sector is to increase access to healthcare services through the revitalisation of the state’s primary health system.  While noting that primary healthcare is the bedrock of healthcare service delivery system worldwide, the permanent secretary explained that the planned construction of new PHCs as well as renovation and upgrade of existing ones by the present administration is in line with the state government’s desire to bring quality and efficient healthcare services closer to the people. “Governor Sanwo-Olu is poised to ensuring that the entry point of the state healthcare system, which are the primary health care centres, delivers on its mandate of providing quality basic healthcare services without any barrier whatsoever in line with the state government’s commitment to achieve universal health coverage,” he said. Lawal, who stated that though the planned revitalisation will translate to improved health services at the PHCs,  assured that all PHCs in the state have been equipped with the right facilities to provide minimum healthcare package, which includes health promotion and education; maternal and child health care services; and treatment of common ailments and diseases. “The strategies for these will be through Basic Health Care provision fund and sustainable drug revolution fund. The components of Basic Health Care provision fund include Health Insurance Scheme, Emergency Medical Services, provision of essential drugs, equipment, capacity building and community participation,” Lawal said. He added that the Lagos State Primary Health Care Board will intensify its monitoring of PHCs facilities in order to ensure that they provide quality and efficient health care services. He also said training and capacity building for health workers at the Primary Health Centre will be given the priority it deserves, stressing that human resource development is pivotal to delivery of quality healthcare services. “We have continued to train and orientate health workers at our centres. This is in a bid to ensure that clients that patronise our facilities get the best care possible.”