Sunday 30th June was the Outing Service for Helen Olufunke Olaitan Bello, wife of media guru, Eniola Bello. Olufunke fought a three year-long battle with breast cancer. She transited to eternity on June fourth in a UK hospital. Her husband is the brilliant and very amiable Managing Director of Thisday Newspapers, Eniola Bello who is also a member of the International Press Institute, IPI. He organised the Outing Service in honour of his wife who was a banker and businesswoman. Family members, friends, well wishers and many dignitaries attended the service in solidarity with Mr. Bello who can best be described as an honourable man. The husband of the dearly departed had described his wife as his companion, friend, lover, critic and wife of twenty three years. Olufunke was a few months short of clocking fifty. May the Almighty God grant the Eniola Bello family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. It has been thirty three days since the loss of this dear lady. Setting me into recollection, with my mind going to some of those we had earlier loved and lost. I mention two wonderful people I had the pleasure of meeting, who have passed on. Mrs Maria Sokenu was the Managing Director of the newly created Peoples’ Bank then-that was the government’s attempt at providing microfinance for a wider populace. Always pleasant and smiling, Maria Sokenu had a standing policy of having at least one physically challenged person in her employ. She also ran an NGO, the Institute for Poverty Eradication IPE which dealt with economic empowerment and training for miscreants in society. At the home front, Maria Sokenu was married to Chief Herbert Sokenu. Theirs was an enduring love story; the two starting out as best friends from age eleven! Herbert is an only child, and his marriage to his childhood friend was much cherished. They spent long years together until her death a few months before her sixtieth birthday. Mrs Sokenu was one of the people who lost their lives in the Bellview airline 2005 plane crash. She always wanted to be remembered for helping people. And I believe she succeeded. Sam Loco Efe-never mind the Mister! He was a wonderful man, multi talented and well educated too. He was a great actor, a movie director and was also a comic. Born Sam Loco Efeeimwonkiyeke it’s a no-brainer as to why he really had to abbreviate his name! He was from Benin , Edo State and was born on Christmas day, 1945. He died in August 2011, aged sixty six. He passed on in Owerri while on location for a movie shoot. Although the autopsy report was never released after he was found dead in his hotel room, the cause of death is suspected to have been an asthma attack while alone in his hotel room. Sam Loco in life bestrode the theatre, Nollywood; and most especially the living rooms of captivated fans across Nigeria who watched him on their TV screens. Sam Loco was also someone who always wanted to see the young ones come up. At his star-studded funeral in Benin that year, then Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole announced that a street in Benin would be named after the Nollywood star, to immortalize his name. Back to the now,  but in other climes; a vicar’s daughter married a parson’s son. And they both lived happily ever after, end of story…..almost. That particular daughter was a young lady named Grace Jones-the oldest person in Britain.  Called ‘ Amazing Grace ‘ by her family and friends because of her longevity, she lived to one hundred and twelve years. Born in 1906 in Liverpool, she lost her own mother before she turned five. But Grace Jones lived through twenty six prime ministers and five monarchs! She survived the two World Wars. She was once a businesswoman who owned a millinery business at one time. In 1933, she got married to Chief Engineer Leonard Jones and they had one daughter, Deirdre. Grace and her husband moved all around the UK and were married for fifty three years till he died in 1986 at seventy nine. Of her best memories in life, she had said, “the best memory was when I married my husband. He was a true gentleman, the son of a parson. We were always together and we loved one another.“ Grace only moved into a Broadway care home in 2005. There she was the star, the most popular person. By virtue of her age, every year she attracted the press to the place, recording another year for her. Hers was a warden controlled residence, but she remained independent till the end, doing her own shopping and all. Her daughter Deirdre McCarthy is 80 years old, and says her mother was a lovely woman. She says Grace Jones did everything with style. Grace Jones was reportedly lively and active and her daughter even said her mother  was a very good cook! Deirdre said they had both played a game 2 days before her passing.  In the same UK,  just 3 days after Mrs Olufunke Olaitan Bello passed on, Mrs Jones died peacefully in her sleep in her Broadway home on Friday, June 7, 2019. She was buried five days ago, on July 2 at Broadway, Worcestershire. What fantastic persons ! Reactions to 07055547031 sms/WhatsApp Twitter @mikky_princess