The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) tops the Port and Flag State Control chart in West and Central Africa. It beats other regulators in the inspection of vessels, according to a report by the Abuja Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Port State Control for West and Central Africa, known as Abuja MoU, the apex regional treaty on ports control. The feat, according to NIMASA Director-General (DG) Dr. Dakuku Peterside, is part of the dividends of reforms initiated by the agency and its investment in  equipment. “In NIMASA, we are conscious of global best practices and determined to rid our waterways of all substandard vessels, with the ultimate aim of ensuring a safe and robust maritime domain. This will afford us the capacity to be a competitive player in the global maritime space, giving us an edge in the comity of maritime investment destinations,” Peterside said. According to the MoU, Nigeria dominated vessels inspection, with 13 of the 14 exercises carried out on the continent last year. But it also showed “a significant rise” in deficiencies as 727 vessel deficiencies were recorded last year, as against 587 in 2017. This was attributed to increased enforcement, with Nigeria in the lead with 339 deficiencies. An analysis of the MoU’s performance between 2010 and last year indicated an improvement on member-nations’ discharge of their duties. Peterside attributed Nigeria’s feat to the initiatives introduced by NIMASA, the Abuja MoU’s administrator, and the availability of vessels for officers to carry out their duties. He pledged the agency’s commitment to safety and innovation in line with global best standards. “The agency has no intention of taking anyone out of business; rather, we are here to assist ship operators by creating a conducive environment. We will not fail to clamp down on erring operators  in our bid to safeguard the country’s maritime environment for the good of all,” Peterside said. Following the international requirement for countries to inspect at least 15 per cent of foreign vessels entering their domains, NIMASA inspected over 600 vessels. This, analysts said, led to a reduction of vessels with deficiency from 18.99 percent in 2015 to 14 percent last year. Sixteen countries signed the Abuja MoU at a Ministerial Conference in Abuja on October 22, 1999. The Abuja MoU’s duty entails the harmonisation of the port state control procedure and practices of all West and Central African countries to eliminate the operation of substandard shipping and ensure maritime safety, security, protection of the marine environment from pollution, and improvement in the working and living conditions of the crew. Its members are Angola, Benin, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Congo, Ivory Coast, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Equatorial Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Congo, Guinea Bissau, The Gambia, and Togo.