President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday recommended Justice Muhammad Tanko to the National Assembly for confirmation as the substantive Chief Justice of the Nigeria (CJN). Senate President Ahmad Lawan read President Buhari’s letter of the nomination of Justice Tanko in plenary. The recommendation came about six months after Justice Tanko was appointed CJN in an acting capacity. It also came a day after the National Judicial Commission (NJC) urged the President to appoint Justice Muhammad as the substantive CJN. The Bauchi State-born Justice was appointed Acting CJN on January 25, following the suspension of erstwhile CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen. Justice Tanko, was until his appointment as acting CJN, the second most ranking Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria. Buhari, who relied on Section 231, Subsection 1&2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, sought the confirmation of Justice Muhammad as CJN in line with the provisions of the law. According to Section 231, Subsection 1&2 of the 1999 Constitution as amended, “the appointment of a person to the office of Chief Justice of Nigeria shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the NJC subject to confirmation of such appointment by the Senate. “The appointment of a person to the office of a Justice of the Supreme Court shall be made by the President on the National Judicial Council subject to confirmation of such appointment by the Senate.” Part of President Buhari’s letter as read by the Senate President said: “I have the honour to forward the nomination of honourable Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammed for confirmation as CJN. “It is my hope that this request will receive the usual expeditious cooperation of the distinguished Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Also on Thursday, President Buhari transmitted a letter asking the Senate to approve the appointment 15 senior special advisers. No names of the nominees for special advisers were attached to the letter. The promise by Lawan that the much expected ministerial list will be ready before the end of the week was not to be. Lawan did not mention the ministerial list and yesterday was the last sitting day of the Senate for the week. The Senate President had on Wednesday assured Nigerians that the list of ministerial nominees would be submitted by President Buhari before the end of the week. Speaking at plenary, Lawan noted that the Executive was working hard to ensure that a ministerial list was transmitted to the Senate for consideration and approval.