Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on Wednesday appealed to the Nigeria Labour Congress, (NLC), to shelve its proposed industrial action due to alleged delay in implementation of the N30, 000 minimum wage. The Senate President said that the country cannot stand such industrial action. Lawan made the appeal when the executives of the NLC and the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria, PASAN, led by Comrade Ayuba Wabara and Sunday Sabiyi respectively paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. He urged for further understanding and patriotism saying that some states have started paying the agreed minimum wage. He noted that “we should not encourage personal issue to overshadow our collective responsibility to nation-building.” He added that “We will journey with you to ensure absolute implementation of the minimum wage by the Federal government.” The Senate President who also urged PASAN, to collaborate with the management and leadership of the National Assembly, told the body to present issue base arguments instead on engaging strike action to press home their demands. He assured his guests that the ninth assembly will not be detracted but remain focus in pursing growth in every sector of the country. The NLC President presented a congratulatory card to the Senate President for his emergence as the Chairman of the National Assembly just as he pledged the commitment and collaboration of the Labour unions to the legislators. The Chairman, PASAN, Comrade Sunday Sabiyi also congratulated the Senate President and the leadership of the Senate on the what he described an impressive emergence as the President of the Senate urging him to put in use his wealth of experience as a ranking senator to the service and protection of the interests of the people. Sabiyi used the occasion to table the demands of the parliamentary staff in National Assembly in implementation of 2018 arrears of 28 percent and balance of 50 percent consolidated Legislative salary, implementation of condition of service, recently approved by the 8th National Assembly, training of staff, health insurance and life insurance premium.