A National Youth Service Corps member in Kogi State, Attah Blessing Edidiong, has organised a seminar for teachers in public schools in Lokoja Local Government Area. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Edidiong said she initiated the workshop to equip teachers with the knowledge in their profession. The workshop, which held at the Children’s Amusement Park, forms a part of Edidiong’s community development service. It was tagged: ‘Seminar/training for teachers and welfarism for humanity’. Edidiong, a graduate of the University of Port Harcourt, was confident that the seminar would introduce a dynamic approach to learning, thereby making experience for pupils fun. Also, the training would instill in the trainees the culture of diligence, self-reliance in pupils, helping teachers to mentor learners. According to Edidiong, teachers are the most neglected, adding that this should not deter them from giving their best to their students. She thanked the sponsors of the project, including Prof. Otokmefa of the Department of Microbiology, University of Port Harcourt, whom she described a great personality and mentor.She also thanked the Proprietress of Koggie Academy, Mrs Mary Egeuda. Delivering her lecture, titled: Indispensable teacher and how a teacher can guide a child in discovering his purpose/destiny,  the guest lecturer Mrs Egueda noted that pupils are like flowers with potential which need to be watered daily. Mrs Egueda explained that a good teacher must have objectives, sense of purpose, humour, and maintain good communication with parents to give their learners emotional support. She added that teachers are expected to know when to listen to pupils and when to ignore them. She advised teachers to help students discover their potential, motivate them, give them inspiration and guidance, as this would, ultimately, spur them to success. Other topics discussed at the seminar include: ‘Helping a child to choose a career; How to help a child that learn slowly, among others.’ Some of the teachers who took part in the seminar said the opportunity has improved their horizon and spurred them to efficiently and effectively impact good ideas on their students.