Director-General, Ekiti State Council for Arts and Culture, Wale Ojo-Lanre, has reiterated Governor Kayode Fayemi’s determination and vision to make the state the arts and culture hub of Nigeria Ojo-Lanre stated that Governor Fayemi and his wife, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, are conscious of the importance of arts, promotion of cultural heritage and value re-orientation through development and promotion of pristine culture and tradition. He spoke while receiving a delegation of the Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Producers Association of Nigeria, (TAMPPAN), Oyo State chapter, led by Chief Rose Odika at his office in Ado Ekiti. According to him, ‘’It is in that view that the governor deemed  it fit to establish Ekiti State  Council for Arts and Culture with the mandate to rejuvenate, promote and develop arts and the cultural sector for empowerment and economic development of the state .’ Ojo-Lanre disclosed that ‘at the council level, we have embarked on series of sensitisation programmes, participated in cultural events and we are also working on training of younger ones in the creative industry in order to make them  vessels of rebranding and promoting our culture.’ He added that the council is open to ideas from corporate bodies, individuals and organisations in moving the state forward through arts and culture. “Our door is widely opened to welcome people with ideas and our template is large enough to accommodate, nourish and enhance packages from that can add value of note to the arts and cultural vision of Dr John Kayode Fayemi,’’he said. Chief Odika praised Dr Fayemi for appointing Wale Ojo Lanre, who she described as a  ‘super cultural and tourism enthusiast’ as Director-General and expressed  optimism about the performance of the D-G. She said her visit was to intimate the state of her plan to collaborate with Ekiti State Council for Arts and Culture in empowering the youth through intensive training in acting, cinematography, catering, pedicure and manicure among others. Chief Odika who said the programme is part of activities lined up to mark her 30th anniversary in the movie industry adding that participants  would feature in the shooting and acting of a movie.   She said that Ekiti is a state specially created by God for creative exploits and “we are here to explore these creative blessings for human development” .