Making it in business as an entrepreneur can be tough at times. There is a learning curve and plenty of challenges that you will encounter on a daily basis. Your business success is dependent on your ability to foresee what obstacles are ahead and learn from your mistakes along the way. Sometimes you may feel like odds are stacked against you but as many as 75 percent of new businesses make it past their first year, depending on the business. Achieving success in a business, year after year, requires effort and hard work. Here are some things entrepreneurs should know: · Focus on becoming an authority: Identify what is defined as authoritative in similar businesses. All businesses are different and being able to rise to the top or stand out following a direction or strategy. Is it cost effective or brand loyalty that will make you succeed? You have to decide how you want your business to be viewed by your customers, analyze the top competitor in your business aspect and figure out where they fail so that you can execute on their downfalls. · Take advantage of available technologies: Utilise the amazing technology out there. The various software and applications will not only make your business efficient but also your life. It is important to take advantage of what is available, so you can focus on growing your business. · Spend your time wisely: Entrepreneurs only have so much time, energy, and ability to focus. The places which receive your full attention will do better than the places that won’t. You also need to make hard choices about what you will do and what you won’t. This is really an important decision you can make, because everything you do in the business will flow from it. · The best entrepreneurs don’t come up with great ideas, they solve market needs: The one thing all successful entrepreneurs have in common is the desire to make their idea a reality. What entrepreneurs need most of all above motivation, focus, hope, financing, marketing skills to bring an idea into existence. · For a successful entrepreneur, there is no such thing as work-life balance.