The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC) yesterday gave accounts of their battles against corruption in the country. At events held in Abuja and other parts of the country, the anti-graft agencies spoke on their achievements, challenges and plans to curb the corrupt. Joseph Jibueze, Rosemary Nwisi, Port Harcourt and Adekunle Jimoh report ‘Recovering stolen assets abroad a complex process’  Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Acting Chairman Ibrahim Magu yesterday said the Federal Government was determined to recover stolen assets hidden abroad despite it being a “complex” process. He spoke in Lagos after a road-walk to mark the African Union (AU) Anti-Corruption Day, which is held every July 11. This year’s theme is: “Towards a Common African Position on Asset Recovery.” Magu, represented by EFCC Lagos Zonal Head Mr Mohammed Isa-Rabo, referring to a report by a high-level panel on Illicit Financial Flows (IFF), said Africa loses over $50 billion yearly through illicit financial outflows. “A large portion of these outflows is made up of illegally acquired assets that are located all over the world. “As we are all aware, asset tracing, freezing, management and eventual repatriation are a long and complex process. “As a result, heads of anti-corruption agencies in Africa have persistently sought the support and collaboration of the global community in repatriating stolen assets back to African countries. “The need to strengthen international cooperation amongst the anti-corruption agencies in Africa for purposes of developing an African common position framework on asset recovery and return can, therefore, not be over-emphasised,” the EFCC Acting Chairman said. He noted that the Muhammadu Buhari administration has made the fight against corruption and the recovery of stolen assets a key agenda. This, he said, has resulted in significant recoveries of looted assets that were acquired through mismanagement of public funds. “It is against this background that today’s convergence of  all relevant anti-corruption stakeholders (domestic and international) to reflect on the challenges of asset recovery in Africa and solicit contributions and support towards developing a framework for an African common position on asset recovery is very important. “Besides, there is the need to create awareness and engage the citizens in asset recovery efforts. “All hands must be on deck in response to the clarion call from across the world to defeat corruption. We must all demand the culture of integrity and accountability to win the fight against corruption,” Magu said. The EFCC Acting Chairman emphasised that corruption remains Nigeria’s and Africa’s greatest the problem, with resources that should have delivered the good life to the majority being cornered by a privileged few, leaving the continent underdeveloped. “The Commission recognises the fact that enduring success in the fight against economic crimes and corruption can only be achieved when all stakeholders embrace this important fight. “This is why we will continue to encourage us all to shun crimes and all acts of corruption. “Let me emphasise again that the future of this country belongs to us all. The decision we make today will determine the type of society our children will live in. Together we can make Nigeria great again,” Magu added. A leader of the Movement Against Corruption (MAC), a coalition of 250 civil society organisations, Dr Joe-Okei Odumakin, said it was gratifying that the AU set up the day with a view to combating the continent’s biggest scourge: corruption. “Africa, our great continent, is bleeding under the heavy weight of corruption. If Africa does not kill corruption, corruption will kill us. More than $50billion of our resources is being starched away through illicit flows yearly. “The poorest people we can find in this world are from Africa. Instead of us putting the feet of our youths on the pedestal of prosperity, they are being put on the pedestal of corruption. “Hunger, war and terrorism are as a result of corruption.  But we must all ensure that we keep our children alive. We can longer continue to agonise, but we must organise. “We can’t fold our arms akimbo, while our country is bled dry. That is the essence of this walk,” Odumaki said. The frontline activist urged Nigerians to join the fight by speaking up against acts of corruption and by blowing the whistle. “When we see something, we must say something. The EFCC alone cannot fight that war against corruption; the government alone cannot do that either. “So, we must all, wherever we find ourselves, make the fight against corruption our battle cry. “I am an incurable optimist and I am so optimistic that, if we all join hands, we will be able to repatriate all our stolen funds. “All of us here remain the lubricants for the survival of the entity called Nigeria and, indeed, Africa. “So, we must all be ready to confront this scourge. I believe that African will flourish again,” she added.  Over N800b recovered in five years, says Magu  Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) acting Chairman Ibrahim Magu has revealed that over N800 billion has been recovered from the corruption fight in the last five years. Magu spoke in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital at the year’s African Anti-corruption Match, with the theme, “Towards a Common African Position on Assets Recovery”. He spoke through the Head, Port Harcourt zonal operation, Mr.  Abdulrasheed Bawa. He said unless Nigerians key into the whistleblowing policy to expose corrupt leaders and public servants, they would continue to get away with their illicit wealth to the detriment of the nation’s economy. “We have made a lot of giant stride by recovering a lot of monies over the years, that in the last five years of the present leadership of the EFCC, we have recovered over N800 billion. “This year alone, we have secured over 500 convictions across the country and Port Harcourt zonal office alone have over 20 per cent of the  achievement. “We are not resting on our oars, however,  we are aware that the task ahead of us is enamours but I assure you that our will as Nigerians and that of the stakeholders in the fight against corruption are higher and together we fight the common cause of corruption in the country.” he promised. “The situation and what corruption has done to the country and citizens, in particular, can not be overemphasized, there is no gainsaying that corruption is hindering our economic development, the activities of fraudsters  and corrupt leaders have deprived Nigerians good roads, good education,  health facilities among others. “Whistleblowing policy is still in place,  Nigerians are advised to key into the policy; in this, you are not only going to make the country better by divulging  us with useful information but you are also going to benefit from it,  because the government  promised to give every whistleblower 5 per cent of the recovery made with the information provided. With this reward, may we are encouraged to expose corruption before corruption will kill Nigeria.” He told the audience at the popular Isaac Boro Park that the essence of the match was to create awareness of the dangers of corruption and to encourage all hands to be on deck in the fight for the recovery of the soul of the economy of Africa,”he said. The match started from the office of the commission at Forces Avenue near the Government House, through Garrison roundabout to Isaac Boro Park in Mile One axis of the state where it terminated amid heavy downpour. Authorities and staff of the EFCC in the state, men of the Police Federal Road safety corps,  Immigration,  Customs,  Civil Defence,  National Orientation, organised Labour, NYSC, and civil society organisations participated in the match and pledged their continued support in the fight against corruption.  Africa loses $50b per annum to money laundering  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday said African countries lose $50billion to money laundering annually. The anti-graft agency added that a large chunk of the outflow was made up of illegally acquired assets spread all over the world. The Zonal Head, EFCC Ilorin office, Isyaku Sharu, addressed reporters in Ilorin during a road walk show to commemorate the African Anti-Corruption Day. EFCC’s road show was organised in collaboration with New Partnership for Africa Development Agency (NEPAD). He noted that African nations had suffered humongous capital flight. He bemoaned the degree of corrupt practices in the country but promised that the agency would not rest on its oars. “This is a gathering of Africa against corruption and looted funds. We have, for long, suffered huge and humongous capital flight from Africa to the western world. It is our responsibility to come as Africans to the common cause with a view to making sure that the assets meant for Africa repatriated to Africa,” he added. Sharu explained that assets recovery was a long process that requires the invocation of relevant instrument of international cooperation, including extradition, mutual legal assistance treaty and freezing among others. Sharu maintained that the crusade against graft in the country had translated into the significant recovery of looted assets that were acquired through mismanagement of public funds. He urged stakeholders to join hands with the commission to ensure recovery of common patrimony carted away. “Over the past four years, the Nigerian government has advocated for the return of stolen from a foreign jurisdiction through the use of anti-money laundering law and country financing terrorism. You will all agree with me that in January 2018, $221million of the repatriated Abacha stuff had been brought back to the country,” he said. Also speaking, Kwara state Director of National Orientation Agency, Olusegun Adeyemi said the event was very significant, pointing out that the negative  effects of corruption on socio-political has impacted on the nation’s economic transformation. Adeyemi said the presence of the anti-graft agency in the state has gone a long way in curbing money laundering, just as he added that it was also securing convictions.  EFCC solicits support of CSOs, trade unions EFCC  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday solicited the support of trade unions and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to facilitate mass education against corruption. The South-East Zonal Head of the commission, Mr Usman Imam, solicited the support at the 3rd African Anti-corruption Day celebration in Enugu. Imam said the effect of corruption had become hydra-headed that CSOs, professional bodies, trade unions and others were needed to be fully involved in the fight against it. He said the EFCC was committed to winning the corruption war no matter how long it took, adding that to do that “Nigerians needed to join in the fight. “Until Nigerians are determined to expose and hold public officials accountable for their stewardship and not see the fight from ethnic, political or religious perspectives, the war might never be won,” he said. The EFCC zonal head said that the Federal Government had particularly made the fight against corruption and the recovery of stolen assets a key agenda for the current administration. “This has translated to significant recoveries of public funds,” he said. He said that the African anti-corruption day had its roots on a series of events leading to an African Union Convention on Prevention and Combating Corruption adopted in Maputo, Mozambique on July 11, 2003. The event, which had in attendance, officers of relevant government agencies, featured a road march around Enugu metropolis.  Vulnerable poor, marginalised, worst victims of corruption, says ICPC  The Independence Corrupt Practice and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) yesterday said the worst-hit victims of corruption were the vulnerable poor and the marginalised people of society. ICPC Chairman Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye spoke in Kaduna during the commemoration of the 2019 African Union Anti-corruption Day to create awareness on the menace of corrupt practices. Owasanoye, who was represented by the state’s Commissioner, ICPC Kaduna State Office, Shehu Yahaya, said that millions of Nigerians were being denied basic social services due to corruption. “As we join our African brothers to create awareness on the menace of corruption and engender collective action, we need to understand the negative impact of corruption, particularly on the hopeless common man. “With corruption, citizens suffer one form of denial or the other; in social services, physical infrastructure and employment with accompanying consequences on the general wellbeing of the people,” he said. He said that ICPC would continue to do all that it can to address corrupt practices associated with the social welfare sector is known to have impacted negatively on the lives of the citizens. He added that the commission’s new policy focus was to ensure effective utilisation of budgetary allocations for social welfare and human development. According to him, the commission will use the provision of the law, especially non-conviction-based assets forfeiture to make more resources available for development. “The commission is currently tracking the execution of constituency capital projects across the country to ensure that the projects are properly executed and delivered to the communities they were meant for. “Tax fraud and illicit financial flows investigation is also being conducted as well as prosecution of corruption and money laundering among others.” Also speaking, Mailafiya Yakubu, Head, Economic and Financial Crime Commission, Kaduna Zonal Office, said that only sound moral upbringing will rid the society of corrupt practices. Yakubu said that religious leaders have a duty of ensuring that people grow with good morals that the younger generation would emulate for a corrupt free society.  EFCC Benin Zonal Command secures 51 convictions in 6 months  The Benin Zonal Command of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday said it secured 51 convictions within the last six months. Mr Muktar Bello, the Zonal Head of Operations, disclosed this in Benin, during the activities to commemorate the third African Anti-Corruption Day. Bello said those convicted were persons involved in various kinds of financial fraud. He also disclosed that within the period not less than N46.6 million as well as instruments of frauds (proceeds of crimes) were also recovered and forfeited to the Federal Government. The zonal head of operations explained that in the commission’s effort to exterminate corruption, it realised that it could not tackle the fight alone.  ‘Making Nigeria corruption-free is a collective fight’  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has urged residents of the state to see the ongoing anti-corruption crusade in the country as a collective fight. Mr Friday Ebelo, the Zonal Head, Ibadan Zonal Office made the call yesterday in Ibadan during a `Road Walk’ to commemorate the annual African Anti-Corruption Day. EFCC officials led by Ebelo and other collaborating organisations converged at EFCC office and walked through Iyaganku quarters, G-Allen to Dugbe, sensitising residents on the dangers of corruption. “Nigeria is our country and to make it corruption-free is a collective agenda. What we are doing today is to sensitise our people and bring them on board in the fight against corruption,’’ he said. Ebelo said President Muhammadu Buhari and the EFCC acting chairman, Ibrahim Magu had been at the forefront driving issues toward recovering the nation’s assets tied overseas.