NIGERIAN cities are expected to reach 58.3 per cent growth in population by 2020, a report by the National Population Commission (NPC) has said. The growth is worrisome given that Nigeria’s urbanisation is demographically driven without commensurate socio-economic dividends. According to former Nigeria Institute of Town Planners President, Mr. Bunmi Ajayi, this has created urban health crisis of inadequate safe water supply, squalor and shanty settlements, sanitation, solid waste management, double burden of diseases and inefficient, congested and risky transport system. Ajayi, a former president, Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), who spoke in an interview with The Nation, maintained that the hardship experienced in the country would be reduced if the government could successfully manage the fast urbanising cities. He regretted that the Federal Government has no plans for state capitals and some towns. He said: “Some states have outdated master plans for their capitals and some towns. Out of over 600 urban centres, I can confidently assert that 75 per cent of the urban centres in Nigeria have no physical development plan. States that got power did little or nothing just like the local governments in plan preparation.” Criticising various development control plans of government, he said they amounted to illegality as no state has physical development plans. Ajayi argued that governments at all strata are unfortunately after sources of internally generated revenue for their various states. He, however, criticised the public whom he accused of being complacent when there are provisions that involve the public both in planning and development control. He said: “Equally our government has not being made to perform their urban planning function well. The public does not take legal action because of the cost and the long delay. However, this though a valid excuse, should not deter us from claiming our right. In effect, you and me, who are members of the public and who are affected by planning decision, should arise and insist on proper and legal things to be done. We should no longer contain arbitrariness that has characterised planning decision.” He recalled that Britain created a green belt in London and new towns outside London with accompanying infrastructure such as fast train, which brings in people on a daily basis within 45 minutes. Ajayi regretted that there is no thought on having contagious use between cities or states in Nigeria. The former APBN president argued that though town planning is government controlled, it leaves the profession with little room as most of them are in government employment and probably afraid to question the status quo because of the security of their tenure. He stressed that the long years of military rule has been repressive to civil servants as they are fired for very flimsy reasons. And since the employment market is not big, everybody has unfortunately tried to keep their job by becoming their master’s voice. According to him, Nigeria has capable Town Planners, who unfortunately have been intimidated to being observers or at best a collaborators. On the way forward, he said: “Professional bodies and registration boards should be ready and available to rescue government Town planners, who are punished for upholding professional ethics and practice. The Town Planner working for the government is therefore, in a pitiable situation in which power lies where there is no knowledge. “As for private practice, practitioners of planning, the survival instinct has made many of them coward or collude to be in the good books of government. In effect, they collude with the illegality in as much as it butters their bread. It is unfortunate that with capable, experienced and well-travelled Town Planners, our cities are suffering all because power resides where there is no knowledge and consequent intimidation of the Town Planner.” According to him cities are largely ignored with no master plan to guide their growth, no current regulation, no mutually agreed planning standard and total lack of urban governance. He further stated that the task of having liveable cities is a task for all. He called on all to be united to participate in efficient governing of “our cities and ensure professional knowledge and integrity”. A university don, Prof Leke Oduaye, also lamented the level of town planning compliance by both the government and the public, noting that lack of planning and adherence to town planning regulations are the bane of the development of the country.