Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, his Ekiti State counterpart, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, and former Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Friday joined millions of other Nigerians to congratulate Governor Gboyega Oyetola on the Supreme Court judgment affirming him as the governor of Osun State. Akeredolu described the Supreme Court judgement as an affirmation of the decision made by the people of Osun State when they filed out in their hundreds of thousands to freely give their votes to Oyetola as their governor in November, 2018. The governor noted that the judgment has finally laid to rest the legal battle which arose from the governorship poll. He expressed hope that with the judgment, Governor Oyetola can now fully concentrate on the implementation of his administration’s policies towards the development of Osun State. He described the judgment as a victory for the people of Osun State and democracy. On his part, Governor Fayemi described the judgment of the Apex Court as an affirmation of the people’s will. He said the judgment was triumph of popular sovereignty as expressed through the peoples’ votes in the 2018 governorship election in the state. In a congratulatory statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, the governor congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the people of Osun State for remaining calm and optimistic all through the judicial process. He urged Governor Oyetola to be magnanimous in victory and extend a hand of fellowship to his opponent in the bid to move the state forward. He said: “It is a great day for democracy. The highest court in the country has finally settled the controversies surrounding the Osun governorship election and affirmed Governor Oyetola as the true winner of the election. “Hearty congratulations to my brother governor, Oyetola. A bigger congratulations to the people of Osun State, who are the real winners in the context.” Congratulating Oyetola in a statement signed by his media aide, Habib Aruna, former Governor Ambode of Lagos State said it was a well-deserved victory and an affirmation of the mandate given to the victorious governor by the people of Osun State on September 22, 2018. “I congratulate my brother, Governor Gboyega Oyetola on this resounding victory at the apex court. It is not only a victory for the All Progressives Congress (APC) but also an attestation to the fact that the judiciary remains the last hope for the common man. “With this victory, I strongly believe that it would enable the governor to focus on delivering on his campaign promises and implementing policies that would make life more comfortable for the people of Osun State,” Ambode said. Southwest APC calls for celebration The leadership of APC in the South West on Friday congratulated Governor Oyetola on his victory at the apex court, noting that the feat called for great celebration. In a release signed by the Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Hon. Karounwi Oladapo, the party said Oyetola will certainly accelerate the pace of development in Osun now that there would be no unnecessary distraction any longer. “The party felicitates with the people of Osun for the victory and thanks them for keeping faith with the  APC  and  Oyetola  during  the litigation period. We seek for more support for the governor now that all the doubts over his legitimacy have been cleared. “The Southwest APC guarantees that the governor will tackle the welfare of the people and address the security challenges in a measurable and more impactful manner,” Karounwi said in the release. The APC Zonal Publicity Secretary also urged the PDP candidate and challenger, Senator Ademola Adeleke, to accept the judgment in good faith and cooperate with the governor in the task of making the state the envy of all. Oyetola’s victory symbolic, says Ondo APC The Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Ade Adetimehin, Friday noted the Supreme Court verdict on the governorship election in Osun State as a vindication of the party’s sincerity. Adetimehin in a statement signed by the party’s spokesman, Alex Kalejaye, commended the courage of the judiciary, particularly that of the Justices of the highest court in the land for dispensing justice without sentiments. “The judiciary has once again made us proud. The Supreme Court justices have convinced all observers that they cannot be intimidated or bribed,” he said. With the judgment, he argued, the elected governor could now settle down to attend to the development and welfare needs of the good people of the state. He also advised political parties to see elections as contest to serve, and not a do-or-die affair. Afenifere leader Fasanmi felicitates with governor The National Leader of Afenifere, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, has joined in congratulating the Governor Oyetola on his victory at the Supreme Court. In a statement released in Osogbo, Osun State capital through his media Assistant Mr. Temitope Adebayo Friday, the Afenifere leader, who served as a lawmaker in the first and second republics, described the victory recorded by Oyetola at the Supreme Court as one that is well deserved. Senator Fasanmi said: “It is my joy to witness Oyetola’s victory at the Supreme Court. This really shows that Osun people’s votes were counted. “This victory will enable Oyetola to concentrate on the good governance he has started since the beginning of his administration.” Senator Fasanmi urge Governor Oyetola to keep the flag of progressives flying in the state. He assured the people of Osun that under the administration of Oyetola, the dawn of a new and progressive era has begun in Osun State. Omoworare hails judiciary, congratulates Oyetola Osun State senator, Babajide Omoworare, on Friday applauded Supreme Court judges for the verdict on Osun State governorship election dispute, describing the judgement as conscientious and fair. In his congratulatory message to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, which was made available to the media by his media assistant, Tunde Dairo, the senator thanked the people of the state for standing by the government and APC while the judicial process lasted. He said: “Mr Governor, I am congratulating you  and t he good people of the State of Osun for this well-deserved and long-won victory at the poll. “It is rather unfortunate that the victory was delayed due to oppositions’ antics of power through the back door. “May I equally explore this medium to appreciate the people of Osun for believing in the Oyetola-led APC government in the state and standing resolute in embracing good governance and democracy. You spoke with your votes, you backed it up with your prayers and support. I say a big thank you.” Also commending the judgment in a statement yesterday, the Coalition of Oodua Self-determination Group (COSEG) congratulated Governor Oyetola as well as his immediate predecessor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, for acting as true democrats in displaying uncommon patience and resilience during the court processes. The coalition said the duo were vindicated that the election of September 22, 2018 was peacefully conducted and followed dues process as affirmed by the highest court in the land. Signed by the chairman of its coordinating council, Comrade Dayo Ogunlana, the statement described the judgment that nullified the appeal of the PDP candidate in the election as the triumph of truth over falsehood. COSEG also hailed the justices of the Supreme Court for doing a thorough job and affirming the victory of Alhaji Oyetola, saying it is an indication that the judiciary remains the last hope of the common man. It’s victory well deserved – Osinowo Following Supreme Court judgment that upheld the victory of the APC governorship candidate in the last governorship election in Osun State, the Senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Bayo Osinowo, has congratulated the executive governor of Osun Sate, Gboyega Oyetola, saying his victory is a well-deserved one. In a statement signed by his media aide, Prince Oladega Ibrahim, Senator Osinowo also congratulated the people of the Osun State and members of APC in the state for standing firmly with the party while the legal battle lasted. In the same vein, Osinowo congratulated the judiciary for living up to expectations as the bedrock of the society and the last hope of the masses even as it served victory to the deserving party. He added that the judgment of the Supreme will further boost the trust of the people in the judiciary system. Giving kudos to the leadership of APC for fielding a credible candidate like Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Osinowo likened the action to what is obtainable in Lagos State where the fact that party has always gotten it right with its candidate is the reason why the state has not derailed as far as developmental programmes are concerned, as every in-coming administration has built on the foundation laid since 1999 towards achieving a mega Lagos. He said he was sure that Osun State would attain the next level as Oyetola will build on the legacy of his predecessor with whom he worked closely as the Chief of Staff