TO tackle unemployment, the Ladies of St Mulumba, VGC Sub-Council, Lekki II, Lagos State has organised a seminar for  youths in various parishes under the sub council. Speaking at the event with the theme: “The hiring process: Things you should know”, the sub-council President, Lady Nnenne Ukairo, said it was focused on hiring processes, such as tips to write good curriculum vitae (CV) and tips for successful interview. “The key focus of the seminar is that we actually want to assist the youth (graduates and the unemployed), who have been shut out of the hiring process due to poorly-presented curriculum vitae. We are aware that in Nigeria, there are many qualified youths seeking for jobs, but are not well aware that your curriculum vitae is one of the very important steps in the employment process. “You must have a well-written curriculum vitae expressing and defining you and your qualification before a recruiting company or Employer can move to the next step of inviting you for an interview,” she said. She explained that after the seminar, the youth would be better positioned to write good CV that would earn them interview invitations, and ultimately jobs. According to Lady Ukairo, the knighthood embarks on charity initiatives, such as visiting the hospitals, prisons, adding that this seminar is one of the charity of the knighthood “and I think at this time in Nigeria, it is very necessary to educate and assist the youths on the subject with the view to positioning them for employment”. She continued: “This is one of our charity activities. The next charity activity might not focus on this, it might focus on another initiative. For the youths of Nigeria, we have had a lot of programmes ranging from pro-life, to instill morality and the sanctity of life. We have also had skills acquisition programmes in other parts of the country. “Next empowerment programme for our sub-council will be a follow-up on this training and another area of need, entrepreneurship. Today, we are focusing on academics for those who wish to secure paid employment having successfully acquired educational qualifications” The Vice-President,  Mrs. Theresa Chiejina, noted that the seminar provided an opportunity for members of the knighthood to contribute their time and talent to youth development in the country.