A total of 57 officers engaged by the National Population Commission (NpopC) for the Enumeration Area Demarcation (EAD) exercise in Anambra State have resolved to put in their best towards a successful and accurate housing and population census. The field functionaries, comprising 10 supervisors, 23 mappers, 23 listers and quality assurance assistants drawn from various communities of the council, converged at Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Government Area for a three-day training in preparation for the exercise. The EAD, said to be the bases for both planning and execution of the census project, is scheduled to last for 21 days and expected to cover the entire communities in the Aguata local government. Addressing the officers, Federal Commissioner, NpopC for Anambra state, Mr. Chidi Ezeoke described the exercise as critical element that constituted the foundation on which the entire census architecture stood. He charged personnel involved in the demarcation to take the exercise seriously to guarantee its success. He said the officers should consider themselves privileged to be chosen for the exercise, stressing that any mistakes could mar the overall results of the census. He said, “This job is a critical national assignment and must be given all the seriousness it deserved. “You must consider yourselves lucky to be engaged to work for Nigeria, and you can’t afford to fail the nation. “If you make any mistakes, the output will be faulty and you’ll have yourselves to blame. “We’ll therefore not hesitate to kick out anyone who makes mistakes in the course of the job.” According to Ezeoke, five local government areas of the state had so far been demarcated, expressing hope that the remaining local governments would be covered in record time. He urged the leadership of the host community to make the environment conducive for the officers including provision of welfare packages to ensure they put in their best to the assignment. He also solicited the support and cooperation of the residents by allowing the demarcators carry out their duties professionally as well as give them unfettered access to facilities and places to be demarcated. On the security arrangements put in place for a hitch free exercise, the commissioner allayed fears of any unforeseen dangers, assuring the officers of maximum security.