The Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday at plenary passed a resolution calling on the Nigerian National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) and Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu to protect pipelines to curtail vandals’ hazards. This resolution followed a petition addressed to the Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa and read on the floor by the Clerk of the House, Mr Azeez Sanni during plenary session. Scores of protesters from Ijegun in Igando-Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Alimosho had earlier in the day stormed the House over July 4 pipeline explosion. The protesters among other things also demanded compensation for victims of the recent fire disaster occasioned by the activities of pipeline vandals, restriction of tankers, stoppage of approval filling stations /gas plants in Ijegun environs. Speaking, Mr Rotimi Olowo (APC-Somolu I), who earlier in the day addressed the protesters and received their petition letter on behalf of the Speaker, said that bunkering had become a big business in the area unabated. “This latest pipeline explosion is one too many, Mr Speaker, that particular community has suffered too long as regards vandalism and destruction of lives and property. “When you talk about bunkering, it is a big business backed by very rich people in terms of logistics and transportation. It is not what the community can withstand. “It is unfortunate that we are losing lives. The government should come to the aid of people who suffered losses. We need a patrol and stationary Armoured Personnel Carriers at the area,’’ he said. He said that NNPC and the Lagos State Government should collaborate to end the trend and help the victims of the latest victims of pipeline explosion. Reading the resolutions of the House, Olowo said: “This House call on the Governor of Lagos State to provide and station security personnel around pipelines where the vandals usually operate. “The government should stop tanker drivers from packing their tankers around the pipelines and that the NNPC as a matter of urgency provide barricade to protect pipelines and to prevent vandals. “That the state government should provide support for the victims, especially those that lose their lives and their property as well as thorough investigations and prosecutions of vandals,” Speaking, Prince Bisi Yusuff, (APC-Alimosho I), who joined Olowo to address the protesters, said that the whole of Alimosho was under threat by the bunkers and not Ijegun area. Yusuff said pipeline bunker had ravaged Baruwa, Aboru, Abule-Egba where more than 80 persons died, saying the trend had prevented people from sleeping with their two eyes closed. The lawmaker decried the negligence of NNPC for not providing adequate surveillance on its pipelines. Mr Kehinde Joseph, representing Alimosho II where the latest pipeline explosion occurred described the scene as gory saying that no fewer than 18 persons died while many sustained several degrees of fire injuries. Joseph, who noted that NNPC and some security agents were culpable, called for compensation of the victims and justice for the apprehended vandals. He said that the government should look into the demand of residents calling for restriction of tankers in and out of the area between 10:00p.m and 5:00 am. In his remark, the Speaker said: “We sincerely sympathize and share the grief of the relatives of the victims and we also commiserate with the people of Ijegun and entire Alimosho. “It is needful for the government to ensure protection of lives and property and there is need for us to call on our government, for now to bring about security in the area mentioned. “We just have to do something about this; we don’t have to fold our hands. “So, it is acceptable to me to call on His Excellency to provide security and also to look at some of the requests of this joint CDAs most especially coming to the aid of the victims and helping them. “Some of them lost their houses, family and see how we can be of help to this people. There is the need to call on NNPC to protect the pipelines from the vandals.” Obasa directed the Clerk of the House, Mr Azeez Sanni to communicate the resolution of the House to Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and send a copy to NNPC. The lawmakers also took turns to bemoan general insecurity in the country, especially in the Southwest, calling on governors in the region to come up with blueprint to secure lives and property.  