ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Greetings to Professor Soyinka@85. Thank you sir, for your civil society tremendous efforts. Unfortunately you still have to speak out. Live long. Lagos toll gate free at last, if only for four hours, from a time wasting expensive disorderly unnecessary greedy multibillion transport stranglehold. Sorry Super Eagles, you tried! “Ministers please, President Buhari. You had only 43 effective months of work. Is your agreement to restructuring just politics? Your one year delay in signing the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCTA) is calculated by economic observes to have cost Nigeria AfCTA leadership to Ghana and has cost Nigeria a free new African country member states international airport hub built as an essential requirement ‘gift’ and much tax revenue and tens of thousands of job opportunities, and incomes from housing, transport, feeding and schooling and of course the reputation of being ‘The Hub’ to misquote Governor Akeredolu. Anyway it is probably better this way as Nigeria has already ruined too many opportunities, ceding border roads and ports and some education services to Ghana.  Can Nigeria get our port, roads, rail and airports right in the 2020s? Congratulations to Ghana, again!! Is this the 100th or 1000th ‘Presidential death sympathy statement’? Who believes him? The murder of a defenceless, female, socio-cultural and political leader, Funke Olakunri in an unstoppable cowardly and malicious torrent of terrorizing bullets on a federally protected highway is beyond the cause incidental armed robbery or Fulani herdsmen. She is dead. What age did the murderers lose their humanity? Insecurity has murdered sleep. One death is not more important to God than another. We have been murdering thousands on our roads for years but now in frighteningly exponentially growing numbers. We are at war! In the last few months, Ikire attacks made the trip to Obafemi Awolowo University and Ile-Ife a high risk journey. We are all defenceless by law, not allowed to carry protective weapons. All civilian vehicles have no weapons in Nigeria, so shooting them up is callous, creating maximum human carnage and deliberately killing harmless and arms-less Fellow Nigerians. The attack screams loudly for the 10,000th time at the desperate need to activate our ‘armed uniforms’ in the security system to be proactive to stop such heinous crimes. Personally, we barely escaped on March 19,  2018 at around Km 41 on the Ibadan-Lagos road from herdsmen attack. Some tertiary unions announce another strike in response to the federal government paying N280b to the university system following the most recent ASUU strike. They claim their own 20% share of the funds is too small. Is this the 100th tertiary union strike so far? Perhaps we should have a ‘Celebration of the 100th University Strike’? Or a requiem, perhaps. How many millions of sessions have been lost by millions of Nigerian students aspiring over the years due to these tertiary union strikes? Yes, we all know the unfortunate truth that without repeated ASUU strikes, government would by now be allocating zero or 1% to education. ASUU’s fight successes were extracted from greedy governments at great cost to ASUU’s members and Nigeria’s tertiary students still fleeing to private universities here, in Ghana and overseas for education. Though emoluments are only part of the long list of ASUU demands for equipment etc, why were all the university unions not in different rooms, with federal government in the central, to bring out one spreadsheet solution? Are our tertiary institution youths to continue to be pawns during 2019-2023 in this eternal inter-union battle? Almost every Nigerian student has ‘suffered a strike’. Many lost entire sessions and have paid with 1,2,3,4 years of their young lives, sometimes even doubling the length of their courses, with no compensation or even cancellation of NYSC, due to a weak federal government neglecting to honest university-rebuilding proposals by genuine suggestions and demands of tertiary institution unions which then resort to strikes. The students have weighed in as well.  NANS calls for anti-corruption investigation into TET-Fund Projects. What a good idea -100%. EFCC, you are invited O! Just like with Constituency Projects and JAMB and the N7b corruption /year? We must not allow distractions or media boredom to allow the cowardly ‘Slapping ‘Sinator’ ’ to sneak away or survive in the senate. His confrontation with his senator mates in the NASS circus demonstrates his arrogance under investigation. Imagine what he says to ‘ordinary’ police investigators. All hands must be on deck, articles, protests at NASS gates by all human rights bodies to raise a cacophony for a speedy trial, justice and financial compensation for the victim of the ‘Pushing and 5-Slap ‘Sinator’ ’. We must all be ‘the victim’ of the ‘Slapping ‘Sinator’ ’ daily until a prosecution and judgement.  Shamelessly, with all the live witnesses, the case against the man, Evans, the alleged kingpin of kidnapping is dragging on with no comfort to the victims or general public. Who benefits from corporate mega-fines imposed on erring companies by regulatory agencies like MTN, AMCON seizures and now $5b Facebook? Are the fines in Nigeria correctly used? Do the agencies consume the funds? Which branch of government manages these funds? Do fines for overcharging or costly poor services to customers get back to customers as discounts or free service periods and lower prices? What is the accountability process for the best use of such mega fines and return of recovered assets?