Former Vice Chancellor, Joseph Ayo Babalola University (JABU), Prof Sola Fajana has said all academic stakeholders have different roles to play in the drive for excellence in Faith-Based institution’s (FBI). He said this at the first Faculty lecture of the Faculty of Social Science, Anchor University Lagos (AUL).  The lecture has as theme: “Driving Excellence in a Faith-Based Institution: A Role for all Stakeholders.” The professor said management must make sure lecturers do their research well on what they teach. He said: “Senate and management must ensure all hands are on deck and efforts made to entrench the true University culture of teaching and research in faith based Institutions. Competent and capable hands should be attracted and retained to pursue the triple mandate of knowledge generation (research), knowledge transmission(teaching), and knowledge application (responsive social engagement), while not neglecting the moral/spiritual burden expected of FBIs.” He further said FBIs should adopt skill-building pedagogies. “Universities have a tendency to focus on knowledge creation and propagation and may have unwittingly neglected the inculcation of practical skills in their products. As observed severally, the employability prospect of the NUS graduates has been questioned on many fronts; and inappropriate teaching methods have been associated with this deficit. While clients of the NUS expect a global change, FBIs are expected to provide an expedited lead in this direction. Senate and management must do the needful to bring this about,” he said. Commenting on the lecture, the Vice Chancellor, AUL, Prof Joseph Afolayan said the University’s vision is treated with utmost passion although the institution is not perfect yet. “The vision of Anchor University is clear and our efforts since we started have been geared toward achieving the loft of vision.  We are not where we are headed. Indeed, we are miles away from our target, but I can assure you that we are getting closer every day. The training we offer here is summed up in our motto: Character, Competence, and Courage, and it has continued to enrich the minds and the intellect of our students. And by the grace of God, we are sure that they will never be the same after their programmes here,” he said. A student of Accounting department, Komolafe Elizabeth received the Dean’s prize as the best 300-Level student in the faculty. She also received N50,000 from , member, House of Representatives,  Bisi Yusuf.