Football fans are engaged in a debate on who is a better striker between Argentine striker, Sergio Aguero and former Ivory Coast captain, Didier Drogba. Drogba is widely remembered for his heroic goal that gave Chelsea the 2012 UEFA Champions League title. He scored the equalising goal against FC Bayern Munich and converter he winning penalty for the London Club, in Munich. Aguero, on his part, is remembered for the last-minute goal he scored for Manchester City against the Queens’ Park Rangers that gave his side the first English Premier League title in 44 years, also in 2012. The two-time African footballer of the year scored 201 goals for the different club sides he played for between 1998 and 2018. He recorded the highest with Chelsea, scoring a whopping 100 goals in 226 appearance between 2004 and 2012. Sergio Aguero, who is celebrating his eight anniversary at Manchester City on Sunday,  has 261 goals from 2003 till date, playing for three clubs, Independente, Atletico Madrid and Manchester City. Fans, reacting on twitter,  gave their views on who is better. For Kushveer Singh, with handle @Kushveer141 “Aguero now has been the best striker in the PL for years, many rival fans are going to say Kane is better but I don’t recall Kane having to face competition from the likes of Tevez, Balotelli, Dzeko, Negredo, Jovetic and Jesus week in and out. However, P. Master @peter_nuhu said “Comparing Drogba with Aguero is like Comparing Nigeria with Kenya” which to me is an insult to Drogba and all Football lovers Paindu Reports @PainduReports tweeted “On 28 July 2011, Sergio Aguero arrived at Manchester City and Premier League was never the same again. However, Me @_KeneC revealed in his tweet “I will take Drogba over Aguero anyday anytime. Call it sentiment, I do not care. Call me when you see Aguero holding this (the UEFA Champions League trophy) An authoritative tweet from Trendy Teacher [Kakamega Finest] @Mitira_Official read “He is Manchester City all-time highest goal-scorer, he scored his 178th City goal against Napoli. Agüero is currently the 6th highest goalscorer in Premier League history, and the highest non-European scorer in the history of the Premier League, with 164 goals. He is above Drogba”, but Oke Umurhohwo @OkeStalfy argued that “Balotelli and Costa will do the job but both will end up with a red card. Zlatan look the good choice but he won’t defend for the team. Drogba is the man for the big occasions. He tracks back, can bully, mark, defend and score key goals at the same time.