Nigerians were first dished the raw Ruga deal by their president. But while we walked the road to Ruga and discovered it was a blind alley, we received similarly assaulting sights: a charismatic cleric whose demonized past would refuse to be exorcised; another man of religion who can’t be trusted to be alone with his own daughter; and finally a ‘distinguished’ (extinguished?) senator whose closet pastime might be collection of sex toys as you would treasure antiquated postage stamps. What a country! None amused us, though. We all marvelled, instead, that we should be forced to take a trip to Tinseltown, where nothing enduring ever plays out. Our leaders and their citizens should be thinking up ideas to assert ourselves as the leader of the continent and the Black Race. We should outgrow those who breed Ruga, sex maniacs and public office holders who can’t live like Caesar’s wife. We rejoice that Ruga which sought to slap us and enlarge the fault lines of our ethnic groupings has itself been given a raw deal. It has received a rough treatment at the hands of the same people who wanted to push it down our unwilling throats. We can’t applaud President Muhammadu Buhari for bowing to popular pleas to drop the idea. You don’t hail a person who withdraws from hurting you if the reason for his restraint is because there are prying eyes. When those obstacles depart, he will perform his act. The point is that the plan to relocate hordes of herdsmen all the way from their ancestral homes hundreds of kilometres away to other cultural climes in the name of taming farmers-herdsmen clashes ought not to come up at all. It isn’t the solution. Our compatriots don’t believe this position of government. What they believe is that government wanted to embark on what would have amounted to the biggest form of ‘colonialism’ since the European powers landed in Africa and cut us into the ‘geographical expressions’ we have at the moment. Had it not been resisted, Ruga would have been a massive land grab piling grave uncontainable pressure on our flyweight bond. We have a highly combustible country that can’t stand little provocations, political, cultural or socioeconomic. You don’t take fire close to petrol unless you want to spark a big blaze. Some observers argue that it’s the future generations that would reap the whirlwind of the wind we sow today. Not so. There could be implosions that might prevent a tomorrow from succeeding today. No generation wants to lose its most cherished property, the land it inherited from its progenitors, from ancient prehistory. Peoples and nations go to war over land disputes. And then here comes a move that the Buhari government thinks would defy that tradition. Such was Professor Wole Soyinka’s exasperation with Buhari for broaching the wild idea that he wondered why the man did not lose the election that brought him back for a second term. According to the Nobel Laureate, Buhari should have been rejected and punished at the poll because of his deficient leadership that allowed the herdsmen have their way across the country. He added: ‘’..the cattle herders have been given a sense of impunity. They kill without any compunction, they drive away the farmers who have been contributing to the food solutions in the country, the cattle eat their crops and then you come up with Ruga…Any country where cattle take priority over human life is definitely at an elementary stage.’’ Soyinka is arriving late where several of his countrymen had long got to and taken residency, in expectation that others would join them. Several millions of his fellow Nigerians said it from Day One that we should expect nothing from the current administration because their past had foreshadowed their future. Its leader had a dictatorial baggage and ill-tempered disposition to administering people, vices he had insisted he wouldn’t be purged from. Many Nigerians have been worried that we have always elected leaders unfit to give us the disruptive governance we require for the 21st Century. The billions of naira the government voted for the cattlemen should have more profitably be invested in the education of our 13 million children not in school. So at the time errant Ruga was being whipped for tampering with our peace, randy clerics who had fouled the hallowed grounds of worship were also being exposed. In Abuja, the Senior Pastor of the Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo has been forced to step aside following the exposure of his carnal past. He allegedly raped an underage girl, who years after in the Ruga era, is playing back tell-tale tapes. In Osun, the Police are now holding Islamic teacher Habeebulah Abdurrahman for defiling a 16-year-old girl learning Arabic in his school. The family are shocked that the man they relied on to care for their child has turned unworthy of the trust. Do our public officer holders also deserve the mandate we give them? Can we say we have elected the right people into office as we look at Senator Elisha Abbo who assaulted a defenseless woman? She is a citizen for whom he should spend sleepless nights working out policies to improve her life. But he would prefer appointments with women in erotic toy shops. What a country dragged back to Neanderthal times by Neanderthal leaders! They and their policies would always get the raw deal history mercilessly metes out to such wasters of opportunity as we did to Ruga and the erring clerics and our lawmaker. 