Earlier on, we defined and described what a pain is. In today’s article, we will consider what an acute pain means and how we can take care of it. Acute pain is the body’s normal response to harm such as a cut, pain due to an infection, or other physical hurts. Put in another way, acute pain is a kind of pain that, on the average, lasts less than three to six months, or pain that is directly related to soft tissue damage such as a twisted finger, a whitlow, boil or burn. Acute pain plays a vital role in providing a warning signal that something is wrong and in need of further examination. We as humans respond to acute pain by our body by developing short term hypertension, rapid heart-beat, facial grimacing; we become restless; our breathing become shallow; we become more guarded; we turn pale, and our eyes becomes more widely opened. Acute pain may also be associated with significant, unnecessary physical, psychological and emotional distress in us. In a lot of cases, if nothing is done, acute pain may become chronic. We shall discuss this later. Causes acute pain: Just about anything can cause acute pain. Let’s make a list. Accidents of any nature can cause any damage to any part of our body. The accidents may be at home or it may not. Home injuries such as falls, oil, water or say hot metal burns, puncture wounds by nails and knives can cause acute pain. Domestic assault such as between husband and wife may result in cause pain. Sexual assault or forceful sexual entry may also result in acute pain in either sexual partner. Dental injuries such as broken tooth or tooth decay or bitten tongue during eating may all result in painful experiences. Diseases such as conjunctivitis, sore throat and gum diseases may cause pain. Chest infections such as pneumonia, peptic ulcer disease, obstructions in the intestines are sources of acute pain. If we allow urine to accumulate on our urinary bladder over a long time even while we are asleep may result in acute pain. As a lot of women could tell, menstrual periods can be accompanied by various forms of pain. Similarly, skin diseases such as boils can cause acute pain. If you are constipated and you wish to forcefully pass out the stool (poo), the force can lead to a lot of pain as much as the constipation. Injuries to the spine, leg, hands and head may lead to serious pain. A visit to a medical doctor with the purpose of giving blood for investigations is perhaps one of the commonest causes of pain in healthcare. Still on healthcare, childbirth, surgical operation of any nature, circumcision in children, are causes of pain. Outside the home, assault on the street and any injury to any part of the body may surely result in acute pain. Investigations: Do not ignore acute pain for it’s a warning sign of something more serious. Simple causes of pain such as boil may sometimes be taken care at home. If there are multiple boils appearing, its best investigated thoroughly. Pain that refuses to go away after say 24 hours should be taken to the doctor for prompt attention and investigation. Most pain, especially if the pain is inside the body, should be attended to and be investigated by the physician. It’s difficult to provide comprehensive investigations that could be done. As may be appropriate, the doctor may do an X-ray if needed. On the other hand, the investigations may be ultrasound or blood and urine test. The investigations may also be a combination of all of the above. The investigation may also extend to using CT-Scan or MRI to help the doctor in the diagnosis. The key message however is that pain requires prompt attention; never mind the cause of the pain Treatment:  Open wounds may lead to bleeding and infection. Therefore, you should attempt to stop the bleeding first and do so urgently. Cover the wound with a clean material and then head to the doctor as soon as possible. Usually, the doctor will determine the next course of action to take. There are some medications that are available over the counter that you may use to stop pain on your own. If these medications are not working, you need to go to your doctor urgently. Paracetamol is widely available across many pharmacies. Indomethacin and ibuprofen are other options but both should be taken with food to avoid peptic ulcer. Never take steroids without medical advice. Never take steroid with any medication without proper medical opinion. Finally, remember that acute pain is an early warning sign and do not ignore it.