Internship is one of the basic requirements for students of tertiary institutions to graduate in their course of study. The duration of the internship which varies depending on course of study and institutions is expected to afford the students the opportunity to have practical knowledge and experience in the industry they will move on to after graduation. For polytechnic graduates, the internship is a whole year for holders of Ordinary National Diploma as a condition for admission for Higher National Diploma studies. As their contribution to the training of future workers in their sector, companies and organisations are supposed to accept the students and prepare them for the career ahead of them. Like many other good concepts which have been eroded over the years, internship has become problematic for both the students and companies. The increasing number of students seeking internship has made it difficult for many to find placements. The companies that are battling to survive the economic downturn can’t simply cope with the upsurge and have no choice but to turn the students back. Unfortunately, many of the students don’t fully understand and appreciate how to maximise internship opportunities and end up not being useful to those who accept them. Without an allowance, some will prefer to find unrelated options to their field of study instead of gaining the experience they need. Some employers too don’t know what to do with the interns and only take them on compassionate grounds without any clear outline about how to make their stay worthwhile. Last week, I organised a training during which I shared some thoughts about how to rethink the concept of internship and even volunteering which is one of the ways for graduates to work in their preferred industry before securing employment. One basic thing which students need to know is that internship is a learning opportunity which they are not paying for. It is not too different from someone seeking to learn a trade and has to pay for the learning period. While organisations can be magnanimous to offer allowance to offset transport costs, students should not make payment a determinant for where they want to intern. They and their parents should regard the internship as part of the learning experience which they may need to pay for like their school fees. Fresh from school with no skills to offer, the interns have not much value to add to their workplace but a lot to learn for which they must be grateful for and not take for granted. Institutions sending the students on internship need to give them proper orientation about what they need to learn and the workplace culture. This will necessitate that the lecturers are abreast of latest developments in the industry through regular interactions with managements and officials who the students will work with. It’s not good enough that students are sent to companies and organisations institutions don’t relate with or give feedback on the impact of past internship on their students. Additionally, institutions should develop updated database of diverse options for their students to choose from instead of focusing on few organisations that cannot accommodate them. Students should understand that they don’t have to intern with only major organisations. If they get one, good, but if not, they should make do with some unpopular ones and start-ups where they will get the opportunity to be fully engaged. The stress many students go through and the abuses some of them, particularly female, are subjected to while seeking internship is unnecessary if the right thing is done by all concerned. There should be rules of engagements by both the institutions and companies which must be respected by both sides.