The Nigeria Agip Oil Company (NAOC) has commenced a special scheme to lift about 1,172 youths and women in Bayelsa and Rivers states from poverty. A NAOC’s statement, said the scheme, which was launched at NAOC Green River Project (GRP) Farm, Igbogene, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, was designed to promote socio-economic development. It said the scheme would encourage the establishment of small-scale businesses for youths and women in company’s operational states and also contribute to a social change. It said youths and women, who were technically skilled but lack the resources needed to start up small-scale businesses, would be assisted with the necessary start-up tools to become self-reliant. The statement further said the second batch of the scheme launched in Rivers State on June 28 took place at NAOC’s Plant Propagation Centre (PPC) Obie in Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area. It said the launch attracted dignitaries from all walks of life, including traditional rulers, representatives of the state and local government as well as men, women and youths. According to the statement at the Rivers State launch, the Rivers State Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs, Mrs. Atotesemi Eson Teetito, commended the initiative. The governor was quoted as saying that when youths and women are meaningfully engaged, there will be peace and development in the communities and the state at large. He further stated that the establishment of small-scale businesses would generate income for the beneficiaries and the state. NAOC General Manger District, Mr. Alessandro Tiani, represented by the Stakeholders Management and Community Development Division Manager, Mr. Dennis Masi, was quoted to have said that the gesture was in line with the company’s continuous bid to empower the host communities in its operational states. In their remarks, the Chairman of Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni/Local Government Area, Ifeanyi Odili, represented by Dr. Lucky Nwaoburu and the representative of Oando Oil Limited, Chief Sam Onyenwe enjoined the recipients to make good use of the opportunity to develop themselves. The statement said youths and women were presented with complete starter-packs to enable them to set up their own businesses in shoe making, barbing, hair dressing, tilling, event planning, laundry services and furniture making, among others.