Nigerian youths have been urged to change their attitude/values and pursue those things that will add to the development of the society. They were also advised to pursue their needs rather than wants so that they would not be involved in shady deals that could lead to unhealthy consequences. Former governor of Osun State, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola stated these at the launching of a book containing the opinions and suggestions of a former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Segun Olulade on national issues tagged; “Eleniyan Perspectives.” The event held on on Wednesday at D’ Podium International Event Centre, 31B, Aromire Road, Ikeja, Lagos. Eulogizing Hon. Segun Olulade, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola recalled that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu was not keen on contesting for governorship of Lagos State in 1998, but that he was encouraged to vie for the office by him and others and that a lady presented Olulade to the party as her son to work with them. He added that Olulade was one of the few young men that devoted their lives to ensure that Tinubu became the Governor of Lagos State then In his lecture titled, ‘You can be what you want to be’, Aregbesola, who was the chairman of the occasion stated that predators take all they want to take, and that while predators are few, the preys are many. He enjoined Nigerians, especially the youths to discover their needs and separate them from their wants. “Needs are the things you require daily such as food, water, shelter and others. “Wants are things like houses, cars and others. A car is a necessity in our society, but your choice of cars should be according to your capacity. “Many people pursue their wants and forget their needs. Wants are expensive, but needs are not,” he said. The minister designate reiterated that he didn’t receive salary for eight years as the Governor of Osun State and that he never operated a bank account anywhere throughout his stay in office. According to him, “I lived in a government house, I passed government roads, my security was provided by the government. “Also, my children are old enough and the government provided my clothes. “My guests are taken care of by the government. I didn’t have a house of my own in Osogbo, the capital of Osun State as Governor for eight years, so what did I need a salary for? “It is now I am thinking of getting a house in Osogbo and I have been contacting friends to help me. “I have friends that have houses in Ilesha, Osun State, my home town who are begging people to live in the houses. Building a house there is a want and not need for me.” “Someone like Bill Gates set a goal that was beneficial to himself and to other people. He fulfilled his goal and has gone to other areas as a philanthropist. “Chief Obafemi Awolowo set a goal of providing free education for the people of the South West, which gave a gap of 50 years between the people of the South West and those from other parts of the country. “Many of us desire to be political leaders such as president, governors, ministers, commissioners, local government chairmen and others it is very easy, but you must work for it. “While some people have opportunities and are not prepared, others are prepared, but the opportunity has not come. “You must be prepared so that when the opportunity comes you will grab it. “A lot of people are poor because they are consumers and not producers. They spend more than they earn anytime and the wisdom of being rich lies in earning more money than you spend. “There must be self-restraint. Don’t indulge yourself. You must learn to save and invest,” he said. He however, advocated that investment should be taught in Nigerian schools from primary to tertiary levels and that investment comes with a price and sacrifice. He said that productivity is the act of adding value to everything one touches or he or she is asked to work upon, adding that the efforts that is put into achieving this is work. He said: “If you don’t produce or work to add value then you are a parasite. “The future belongs to the youths. The youths are here for a long haul. We should therefore be more concerned about them. “Young people are setting the pace such as Bill Gates, Mark Zucherberg and former British PM, David Cameroun, who turned the world around as leaders in their young ages. “We have the likes of the late Anthony Enahoro, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Alaba Lawson and others, who became leaders as youths. “But today, our youths indulge in internet fraud, rituals and other vices. “Our youths should be ambitious and separate entertainment from knowledge. The future is knowledge driven.” Earlier in his welcome address, Hon. Segun Olulade said that it was a royal privilege to have the guests at the event. “I am indeed very grateful for the honour you have bestowed on me. In the 23 chapter book, I have detailed some of my thoughts on some national and international issues,” he said. The reviewer of the book, by Mr. Babajide Otitoju said that Hon. Segun Olulade had broken records by representing Epe Constituency 2 on two occasions in LSHA. Otitoju added that Olulade has hit a milestone on national discourse. He emphasized that”Eleniyan Perspectives” is a good book for the modern day fit for sale in any bookshop all over the world safe for some proof reading and editing in some areas. “The book is enlightening on critical political issues, and the writer spoke extensively on the legislature. “Hon. Olulade has enlightened the readers that debates are part of legislative activities. “His insight into power sharing formula is commendable. He reflects critically on political issues in the book. “The role played by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on nation building is well spelt out in the book. “He leveraged on the leadership prowess of Asiwaju Tinubu to develop the South West,” he said. Otitoju also commended Olulade for the role he said he played in Kogi State during the last governorship election in the state. “Olulade stood to ensure that good leadership comes out of Kogi State during the last election in the state. Present at the event were former speakers of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Adeyemi Ikuforiji, Rt. Hon. Jokotola Pelumi, Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Alhaja Noimot Salako-Oyedele, and Speaker of LSHA, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa,  who was represented by Hon. Tunde Braimoh. Others were Majority Leader of LSHA, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, Hon. Rotimi Abiru, Vice Chairman of APC, Lagos West, Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, star musician, Dr. Adewale Ayuba, and Mrs. Mayowa Ikuforiji. 