The Lagos branch of Edo College Old Boys Association (ECOBA) has presented 19 prizes and awards to pupils and teachers of Edo College, Benin City at the graduation and prize-giving ceremony of the institution. Speaking at the ceremony for 143   graduands, chairman of the occasion, Mr. Isaac Ehiozuwa, Edo State Head of Service, praised the  workers for maintaining the excellent standard of the school. According to the Head of Service, who was represented by Mr. Edwin Oaikhena Edionweme, a Director of Administration and Supplies, a lot had been done by the school authorities, but a lot still needs to be done. He advised the workers to continue to ensure that the right discipline was inculcated in the pupils to bring joy to every parent. “We are all aware of the steps the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has been taking in the education sector. It is, therefore, good to key into the mission and vision of this administration,” he added. ECOBA National President, Dr. Reuben Osahon, who thanked the old boys for their contributions to the development of their alma-mater, enjoined the new graduands to find the nearest branch wherever they find themselves and join the association. “The law states that after two years of graduation from the school without being expelled, you are qualified. If you have benefited from the institution, it is your responsibility to contribute your quota to the development of the school that is 82 years old,” he noted. During the presentation of prizes and awards from the Lagos branch, the ECOBA National President gave the best Mathematics SS3 student award to Efosa Illoware Eghenayamose, sponsored by Senator David Dafinone Foundation; The best English Language SS3 award sponsored by Mr. Sunday Airrue Uaboi went to Odiase O. Michael; the best SS3 Economics award sponsored by Senator David Dafinone Foundation to Elaigwu Augustine Ugbede-Ojo; The best Accounts SS3 award sponsored by Senator David Dafinone Foundation to Izekor Jefferson and the best SS3 Physics award sponsored by Edward E. Iyamu to Emina Attah Emeka. The association’s Benin branch Chairman, Peter Oibor, presented  the best Fine Arts SS3 award sponsored by Michael I. Omo Osagie to Elaigwu Augustine Ugbede-Ojo; the best Agric Science SS3 award sponsored by Osazenaye Osarenkhoe went to Ofuase Kikachukwu Oluwatimilehin, the best Biology    SS3 award  sponsored by Mrs. Hilda Gregory (Aka Edede Edo College) was received by Oghagbon Osasenaga; the best Geography SS3 award sponsored by Omaha Endowment Fund to Ikilo Eghosasere Evidence and the best sport person SS3 award sponsored by Uyi Akpata to Isreal Edosomwan. Other awards presented by the ECOBA Benin branch chairman were the best Mathematics SS2 award sponsored by AVM Joe Ehigie (retd) which he conferred on Iyase Eghosa; the best Athletics SS2 award sponsored by Madam Ofure Akpata went to Egharevba Blossom; the best mathematics JS3 award sponsored by Godwin Ize-Iyamu was received by Agas Eseoghene David; the best English Language JS3 award sponsored by Mrs. Omokhuwe Alegeh went to Aiwehoe Osayuki Gabriel; the Best French JS3 award sponsored by Ambassador Vincent Okobi went to Abiodun-Mudasiru Moyosola Marcel. The Best JS1 French Class award went to JS1c and the Best teacher in Geography award sponsored by Omaha Endowment Fund went to Mr. Aghedo B.O. Other awards presented by the representative of the Head of Service include: the outstanding teacher in English to Mrs. Theresa Ehigie, the best N-power outstanding award to Evance Erhabor and the principal of the school, Mr. Samuel Ogbebor also presented the principal award to ECOBA for their contribution to the overall development of Edo College. “The laudable contributions of ECOBA to the overall development of Edo College cannot be over-emphasised. The old boys have played key roles in activating the core values of the college, its physical environment inclusive, management is extremely grateful to the class set of 92 that built and commissioned a basketball court. By so doing, they have revived the spirit of sportsmanship amongst students,” he added.