Ekiti State Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi has organised an empowerment programme for members of the All  Progressives Congress (APC) in Ado Ekiti Local Government. The deputy governor explained that the gesture was aimed at putting smiles on the faces of party faithful.  He said the scheme would be done in batches to capture every APC loyalist in Ado Ekiti. Sixty-five beneficiaries, including party leaders from each of the 13 wards were given N20,000 each. Egbeyemi said that the empowerment was to assist members in the areas of their businesses. Egbeyemi said he has been touching lives before he became deputy governor and that he would not stop doing it, even outside office. Noting out that all party members cannot be appointed into government, the deputy governor advised those lucky to be appointed to give back to party faithful and the society at large. He assured the people that Governor Kayode Fayemi was determined to banish poverty, by executing policies that will better their standard of living. Egbeyemi said the governor was passionate to breathe life into the economy at the grassroots, by empowering artisans, youths, women and owners of small and medium scale businesses. The state’s number two citizen called on members to invest in agriculture, especially banana plantation, noting that agriculture is now of the way out of poverty. The deputy governor urged women and unemployed graduates to key into the economic programmes and policies of the Fayemi-led administration to better their lot. Stressing out that all party members cannot be appointed into government, Egbeyemi advised those lucky to be appointed to give back to party faithful and the society at large. Egbeyemi charged APC members to sustain the peace and unity of the party in all parts of the state and to always project the good works of Governor Fayemi in their localities. Egbeyemi added that the emergence of the chairman and other executives of Ado Local Government and party executives at the council level would be open and transparent. The deputy governor urged members to be proactive in upholding the tenets of the APC, assuring them of more appointments in due course. Egbeyemi said there was the need to enforce discipline in the attendance of party meetings. He said the law must be allowed to take its place in the conduct of the affairs of the party. The Women Leader, Ado Ward 10, Mrs. Funmi Oni, and the Chairman Ado Ward 1, Mr. Kayode Oladimeji, who were beneficiaries of the programme, commended the deputy governor for the gesture, saying it would serve as a motivation for members. Party chieftains at the event include APC Deputy Chairman, Mr. Sola Eleshin; House of Representatives member representing Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1, Mr. Olusola Fatoba; Commissioner for Special Duties and Integration, Alhaji Jinadu Ayodele; House of Assembly member representing Ado Constituency 1, Mr. Toyin Lucas; Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Tade Aluko; Director General, Bureau of Employment and Productivity, Mr. Lanre Ogunjobi; Director General, Bureau of Arts and Culture, Mr. Wale Ojo-Lanre, among others. 