SUPER Eagles German coach Gernot Rohr said he was not giving up on the possibility of wooing striker Odion Ighalo back to the fold despite his recent shock retirement from international football. Goals by the Shanghai Greenland Shenhua’s striker helped the Super Eagles clinch bronze at the recently concluded Total Africa Cup of  Nations in Egypt where he equally clinched the top scorer award with his five strikes. “We have to work hard for the success of a new goal scorer,” the 66-year-old Rohr stated. “Of course, we have some new strikers that you know already but Ighalo is such an experienced and aesthetic striker that we are going to miss him. “I still have very good relationship with Ighalo; but I want’ him to rest now and get over his injury and I would talk to him about his retirement. Even if I have to go to China, I would go and talk to him. “I like this man because he’s a good example of professionalism and very exemplary as one of our captains and all the time, I always want excellent relationship with my players and I don’t think it’s finished with Ighalo if I stay.” Meanwhile, the former Bordeaux coach has hinted about the quick return of Leicester City’s striker Kelechi Iheanacho after he was excluded from the 23-man list to the 2019 AFCON. “Work has already started and I know that this player Kelechi Iheanacho can still do a good job for us,” noted Rohr. “Kelechi too can score goals and I think that his omission from the AFCON would be a big motivation for him. “I was talking with him throughout the AFCON because he’s still a congruent part of our team and I know he wants to work harder now because he has understood the professional ways of doing things. “ I know that Kelechi can be an interesting player for the Super Eagles,” he reitreated. Meabwhile, Iheanacho netted a brace as one of two Leicester City squads to feature in a double-header of friendlies on Saturday drew 2-2 with Rotherham United at New York Stadium. While Brendan Rodgers’ men simultaneously defeated Stoke City 2-1 at bet365 Stadium, Assistant Manager Chris Davies and First Team Coach Kolo Touré oversaw another Foxes squad in South Yorkshire, which included outings for new signing James Justin and England U21s duo Harvey Barnes and Demarai Gray. With rain falling at a harsh angle, the Foxes nonetheless started brightly with Barnes in particular causing serious issues for Matt Olosunde down the left channel. Leicester’s first real opportunity of the match led to their opener in the 11th minute as Barnes seized upon a loose ball and slid it into Iheanacho in space. The Nigerian striker, who opened his account in pre-season during Tuesday’s 3-0 win at Cambridge United, composed himself and drilled it low into the bottom corner. Iheanacho, 22, was unlucky not to double his tally eight minutes later as Andy King laid it up for him, but Foxes loanee Daniel Iversen, in goal for the hosts, did well to get a leg to it. He restored a slender lead, riding a number of challenges, before beating substitute goalkeeper Lewis Price. Leicester appeared to be closing in on another pre-season victory, following earlier successes over Scunthorpe United, Cheltenham Town and Cambridge United. However, the Millers pulled them back once again with 10 minutes remaining as Ben Wiles’ cross ricocheted back off the post and into Michael Ihiekwe, who netted it calmly.