With nonperforming loans of top major banks averaging almost N600billion in the first quarter there are fears that this development could be a bad omen for the sector and may not bode well for the economy. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf examines the issues The ghost of the past may be lurking around the banking sector as can be seen in the growing portfolio of nonperforming loans in the industry in recent times. What is a nonperforming Loan – NPL? A nonperforming loan (NPL) is a sum of borrowed money upon which the debtor has not made the scheduled payments for a specified period. Although the exact elements of nonperformance status vary, depending on the specific loan’s terms, “no payment” is usually defined as zero payments of either principal or interest. The specified period also varies, depending on the industry and the type of loan. Generally, however, the period is 90 days or 180 days. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also sets out multiple criteria for a nonperforming loan classification. In 2005, the IMF defined nonperforming loans as loans whose: debtors have not paid interest and/or principal payments in at least 90 days or more, interest payments equal to 90 days or more have been capitalized, refinanced or delayed by agreement, payments have been delayed by less than 90 days, but come with high uncertainty or no certainty the debtor will make payments in the future. Crux of the matter At issue is that a total of four banks, Access Bank Plc, Zenith Bank Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) and Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTBank) have reported N582 billion Non-Performing Loans (NPL) in first quarter of 2019. According to the report, oil & gas sector and general commerce contributed to these banks NPLs in the period under review. Specifically, Access bank that recently merged with Diamond bank has one of the highest NPLs in the period under review. The lender as at the first quarter of 2019 reported N298 billion NPL with its NPL ratio closing the period at 10 per cent, above the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) five per cent threshold. The lender this year said it would go after debtors of Diamond Bank to ensure that they fulfilled their obligations as the banks made the final push in their merger arrangement. The Managing Director, Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe said the bank is putting in place a strong team to ensure that it recovers as much as possible depositors’ money that is with debtors. The total debt is put at between N110 and N120 billion. Wigwe said while Diamond Bank was coming into the union with bad debts, Access Bank had the capacity to absorb and handle it. He noted that the merger would allow Access Bank to accelerate its prospects of becoming the leading retail bank in Nigeria and Africa. A further check revealed that oil & gas sector contributed 29.4 per cent to Access Bank NPL in the first quarter of 2019. However, Zenith Bank and GTBank reported N94 billion and N99 billion NPL in first quarter of 2019 respectively. Zenith Bank of the four banks reported NPL ratio that is below threshold of CBN, 4.85 per cent in first quarter of 2019 while GTBank reported 7.3 per cent. Also, oil & gas sector and general commerce contributed 39.8 per cent and 25 per cent to Zenith Bank and GTBank NPL respectively. Meanwhile, UBA’s NPL moved to N91 billion in first quarter of 2019 while NPL ratio closed at 5.3 per cent. The pan-African bank thus reported 53 per cent oil & gas contribution to its NPL in the first quarter of 2019. The apex bank in June announced plans to recapitalised commercial banks on the heels of strengthen them against any global or domestic shock. Zenith Bank has the highest capital base in the banking sector with an estimated N781billion as at first quarter of 2019, while Access Bank has N577billion capital base. In addition, UBA in the period under review has N502billion and GTBank has N576billion capital base in the period under review. Timetable of NPL from 2003 till date Nigeria’s Non-Performing Loans Ratio stood at 11.4 % in Dec 2018, compared with the ratio of 14.8 % in the previous year. Nigeria’s Non-Performing Loans Ratio data is updated yearly, available from Dec 2003 to Dec 2018. The data reached an all-time high of 37.3 % in Dec 2009 and a record low of 3.0 % in Dec 2014. The Central Bank of Nigeria provides annual Non-Performing Loans Ratio. Non-Performing Loans are defined as interest or principal that is due and unpaid for 90 days or more, as well as interest payments equals to 90 days interest or more have been capitalised, rescheduled or rolled over into a new loan. In the latest reports, Money Supply M2 in Nigeria increased 10.6 % YoY in May 2019. Nigeria’s Foreign Exchange Reserves was measured at 45.1 USD bn in Jun 2019. The Foreign Exchange Reserves equaled 17.7 Months of Import in Mar 2019. The country’s Domestic Credit reached 105.0 USD bn in May 2019, representing an increase of 27.5 % YoY. Worries over rising NPLs Rising from the Monetary Policy Committee meeting recently the CBN expressed grave concern over the N8.1 trillion delinquent loans in the banking system. The committee directed the regulator to develop an actionable plan to quickly recover bad loans and tighten credit rules. But economic watchers argued matter-of-factly that had the regulators been stricter in policing the deposit money banks all along, alarmingly high credit defaults would not have arisen so soon after the last financial sector crisis of 2009/10. Stopping the trend and preventing systemic distress should be a key priority of the regulator going forward. The MPC, which is chaired by the Governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele, canvassed for a comprehensive administrative, legal and regulatory framework “to speed up the recovery of toxic loan facilities in the banking system.” It wants the CBN to engage relevant stakeholders “in order to mitigate credit risk and ultimately open up the credit delivery space” in the economy. This is long overdue. While the CBN dithered, the banks have been brazenly violating stipulated lending thresholds, anti-money laundering rules and others. The N8.17tn in Non-Performing Loans on the DMBs books in 2018, by the National Bureau of Statistics figures, was actually a decrease of N1.38tn or 14.46 per cent from the 2017 figure of N9.54tn in NPLs. Figures from the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation show that NPLs rose sharply by 50 per cent between 2016 and 2017. The corporation has been complaining of the worrisome lending by banks above the ratios stipulated in CBN’s Prudential Guidelines that forbids banks from having more than five per cent of total loans as bad. While the NDIC said that by December 31, 2016, 19.91 per cent of the loan portfolio of 20 banks examined was non-performing, the CBN’s Financial Stability Report 2017 showed that the ratio of NPLs net of provision to capital for the banking industry, rose to 38.4 per cent in 2016 from 28.4 per cent in 2015. Emefiele admits the problem, saying however that there had been an improvement in the NPL-to-deposit ratio from close to 15 per cent “a year or two ago” to 10 per cent today. He said the CBN would work to see that bad loans were brought down and the banks encouraged to lend aggressively to boost economic activities. But the problem deserves greater urgency and a more aggressive response. Certainly, the banks need closer marking than the Emefiele-led CBN has been providing these past five years. Way forward In the view of economic pundits, the CBN hardly lack laws but it is lack of the will to rigidly enforce the strong laws and regulations in place. Emefiele, they advise should adopt a zero-tolerance policy on insider abuse, money laundering, forex manipulation and fraud. The NDIC’s revelation in 2017 that three commercial banks between them had N700 billion insider bad loans confirms the regulatory laxity. Weak institutional capacity is also revealed in the N5.4 trillion that the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria is carrying, while similar “bad banks” elsewhere have fulfilled their mandates, recovered huge sums and wound up, AMCON is wringing its hands in seeming helplessness as if the 350 persons and corporate bodies that owe the sum have no assets or collaterals that can be legally recovered. Thankfully, the CBN has promised to introduce fresh capital rules soon and also threatened to heap pressure on banks, a move considered expedient following the revelation of the National Bureau of Statistics on the debt figures of some banks. NBS data had showed that the NPL ratio, which is a key metric for banks’ health, rose to 14.16% from 12.45% in the previous quarter, compared to a regulatory limit of 5%. Expressing shock on the rising figure in the debt on some of the banks, the apex bank has resolved to new requirements that would be stricter in terms of what funding qualified as capital and would also require lenders to create “capital conservation and counter-cyclical buffers. CBN also vowed to work on rules that sought to protect the nation’s banks against shocks emanating locally abroad by increasing the level of regulatory capital and the quality of the assets. The Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, CBN, Mr Edward Adamu, said while monetary policy had to accommodate the need to sustain current improvements in banking industry’s financial soundness indicators, the DMBs would need to moderate their appetite for government securities and oil and gas assets, in order to gradually re-balance their asset portfolios. Another member of the MPC, Prof Adeola Adenikinju, stressed the need to sustain the recent positive trend in financial system indicators. “The monetary authority should not lower its guard and must continue to monitor the banks and implement policies to consolidate and further improve the FSI,” he said. On his part, Dr Aliyu Sanusi said the moderation in NPLs, if sustained, would encourage banks to increase lending to the economy, which remained challenging last year.