Silverbird Group has signed a memorandum of understanding with Voidant Broadcasting and BusinessDay newspapers to begin an eight month-long event circuit for small businesses in Nigeria. Speaking during the briefing, the lead team member Dike Dimiri said they recently discovered that something needs to be done about some of the challenges surrounding the growth of small and medium scale businesses in Nigeria. “Over the years, a lot of funding has been channeled towards their success but not much has been achieved. We carried out a research to know what the challenges that are stopping them from being the way that we want people to see them are and we found out that one of the greatest challenges they face is awareness.” “The cost of awareness is huge that even when you have the best programmes and services and nobody knows you, there is a challenge. So, we got together with Silverbird group and asked if they will be willing to leverage their media and real estate assets in other to contribute in touching lives and the answer was yes.” On his part, Vice President, Silverbird Group, Guy Murray-Bruce, explained that in addition to finance, creating awareness for their products and services remains a challenge for small business. “Silverbird is leveraging its media and real estate assets to create a platform that will provide small businesses with access to providers of what we have termed CHITTA, Capital, Health, Insurance, Technology, Training and Awareness. This CHITTA framework is vital to the sustained growth of small businesses,” he said. Commenting on the participation of BusinessDay in the Small Business Circuit initiative, General Manager, Adeola Ajewole, highlighted the commitment of the newspaper to the growth of small businesses in Nigeria. On his part, General Manager Voidant Broadcasting Limited, Maxwell Nzekwe explained that Voidant broadcasting is a media tech company that owns eventstracer.com as he added that the Circuit represents what the organisers termed a unique approach to solving the growth and stability challenges faced by small business in Nigeria. Also speaking at the signing ceremony, a Director at Eventstracer, Adewunmi Obakoya said that the digital platform would handle all registrations for the Circuit and also serve as a news, data, content development and information platform for activities around the Circuit, its exhibitors and visitors. The Circuit will begin with Nigeria’s first ever flower event, the Lagos Flower Convention planned to hold over the weekend of August 9-11, 2019, and conclude in March 2020 with the Silverbird SME Award Night. All events will hold at the Atrium of the Silverbird Galleria in Victoria Island, Lagos.