The National Chairman of the Association of Speed Limiter Vendors of Nigeria (ASLON), Mr. Adekunle Oyegoke, has joined ranks with the majority of voices calling for the arrest and prosecution of the Senator representing Adamawa North District in the National Assembly, Elisha Abbo, for assaulting a lady in an adult toy shop in Abuja. Adekunle who spoke with our correspondent in a phone interview said that Senator Abbo should be prosecuted and made to face the full extent of the law for his despicable action. Abbo in the viral video on Tuesday was seen descending on a woman and slapping her multiple times in the presence of a Police officer; the event we are made to believe happened sometimes in May this year. The video has since stirred controversy online and widespread agitations and demonstrations on the streets. According to him, “It breaks my heart that power that is supposed to be used to defend the weak and defenseless is the same power used to crucify them. Regardless of what happens, a man should not raise his hands on a woman. “Senator Elisha Abbo should ask himself if his mother insulted him or said the same thing the lady said in the heat of argument, will he react the same way? “No matter what the woman might have done or said, the true test of leadership is in composure and comportment, asides integrity and competence. “I say NO to violence against women. This is also a misrepresentation of the youths to think that a man that claims he is the beacon of hope is a threat to it is sickening and makes the younger generation look incapable of leadership.” He further added, “I commend the Senate for setting up a committee to investigate the matter and I hope regardless of the outcome, he will be made to apologise publicly for raising his hands against a woman. “As Nigerians, we must consistently lend our voices to drown every act of violence (whether domestic or otherwise) in our dear nation Nigeria.” Adekunle Oyegoke @aooyegoke is also the CEO of Gifted Driving Services and Motor Solution Ltd, and is among the outspoken young leaders in the country.