The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has reviewed the 13 indices that serve as benchmarks for stocks’ groups and sectors. The composition of the indices after the review took effect on Monday July 1, 2019. In a report on the review, the NSE indicated that five indices remained unchanged, including the NSE Banking Index, the NSE Oil and Gas Index, the NSE Pension Index, the NSE Corporate Governance Index and the NSE-Afrinvest Bank Value Index. In the reviewed indices, the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (Nahco) displaced Total Nigeria from the NSE Lotus Islamic Index, which tracks equities that conform to Islamic financing requirements. Also, Custodian Investment displaced Dangote Flour Mills from the NSE 30 Index, the benchmark index that tracks the 30 largest companies on the Exchange. In the consumer goods sector, McNichols displaced Dangote Flour Mills in the NSE Consumer Goods Index while Notore Chemical Industries Plc displaced First Aluminium Nigeria from the NSE Industrial Goods Index. The NSE also removed Sunu Assurances Plc from the NSE Insurance Index an added Veritas Kapital Assurance to the insurance sector’s benchmark index. Also, there were also changes to three co-branded indices. Africa Prudential was added to the NSE-Afrinvest High Dividend Yield Index and the NSE-Meristem Growth Index while Access Bank, Presco and United Capital were added to the NSE-Meristem Value Index. The trio of Sterling Bank, Zenith Bank and Nahco were removed from the NSE-Meristem Growth Index. The NSE-Meristem Growth Index and NSE-Meristem Value Index focus on growth and value investment strategies and enable investors to make investments in products that truly match their investment styles and objectives. The indices were developed on a style-focused methodology proprietary to Meristem Securities Limited. The NSE-Afrinvest Banking Value Index and NSE-Afrinvest High Dividend Yield Index were designed in response to requests for applicable benchmarks for measuring value in banking stocks and high dividend stocks listed on the Exchange. They serve as tools for investment managers and corporate treasuries seeking appropriate benchmarks to evaluate the performance of their portfolios to a segment of the banking sector or high dividend orientation as applicable. The indices, which were developed using the market capitalisation methodology, are usually rebalanced on a biannual basis, the first business day in January and in July. The stocks are selected based on market capitalisation and liquidity. The liquidity is based on the number of days the stock is traded during the preceding two quarters. To be included in the index, the stock must have traded for at least 70 percent of the number of trading days in the preceding two quarters. The NSE began publishing the NSE 30 Index in February 2009 with index values available from January 1, 2007. On July 1, 2008, The NSE developed four sectoral indices and one index in 2013, with a base value of 1,000 points, designed to provide investable benchmarks to capture the performance of specific sectors. The Insurance and Consumer Goods sector index, comprises the 15 most capitalised and liquid companies; Banking and Industrial Goods sector index, comprised of 10 most capitalised and liquid companies, while the Oil & Gas sector index, is composed of the seven most capitalised and liquid companies. 