The senator representing Lagos Central, Oluremi Tinubu, has built a house to accommodate childless widows in her constituency. The facility named “Patience Home,” is located within the premises of the New Era Youth Camp, along Kayetoro -Eleko road, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos State. Commissioning the home, on Friday, amid pomp and ceremony, Tinubu said the project was named after her mother, Princess Patience Ikusebiala, who was present at the occasion. Tinubu said she was inspired to build the home for childless widows to improve their lives as many of them had been thrown out of their matrimonial homes by their husbands’ relations. “In furtherance of better welfare for my constituents, I have from 2014, empowered 1,430 widows under the Widows Economic Empowerment Scheme (WEES), which I initiated for my senatorial district. However, there is so much more to do. “In furtherance of my commitment, Patience Home will provide temporary accommodation to childless widows for a period of 6 to 12 months. The skills available include fashion designing, catering and hotel management will span 12 months, hats, beads and crafts for a duration of 6 months.” She disclosed that the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, would provide skills acquisition training at the centre located in Orimedu,  near Ibeju -Lekki . Tinubu said her New Era Foundation (NEF), is partnering with the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), National Headquarters, to run the Home. The wife of Lagos State Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, commended Senator Tinubu for initiating and sustaining the project. She said the senator has always been finding something to offer to the society particularly the less privileged. “We are happy to have you as our senator in Lagos Central District. Thank you for the vision. Thank you for the empowerment schemes and love for the less privileged,” she enthused. The high point of the event was the commissioning of the heavily furnished 10-bedroom house by the wife of General Overseer of TRCCG, Pastor Folu Adeboye, who was represented by Pastor Rachael Odesola. Dignitaries present include the Lagos APC senatorial leader, Tajudeen Olusi,  Southwest APC woman leader, Kemi Nelson, immediate past Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and Hon. Mutiu Are. Traditional rulers also graced the event. They include Elemoro, Oba Tajudeen Afolabi, Onibeju Oba Olusegun Salami and Oba Gbadegesin Adeboeale.