The Nigerian auto lovers would soon welcome the Eighth Generation Hyundai Sonata. The remodelled vehicle is on its way to make Nigeria debut, having undergone a remarkable makeover that incorporates Hyundai’s third-generation vehicle platform with the inspiring appearance and improved performance. The remodelling, Hyundai Motor Company said, was aimed at improving the market competitiveness of the Sonata and its subsequent models. “They are already being infused with greater flexibility, enhanced overall design, safety, efficiency and outstanding driving dynamics,” Hyundai said. Hyundai Motor Company Head of Styling/Vice President Simon Loasby gave the hints in Seoul, Korea at the international premiere of the Sonata and E-Segment Palisade Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). Loasby said the remodelled Sonata has brought with it fresh chapter for Hyundai’s longest-standing model, yet continuing a global success story that started in 1985. Unlike its predecessors, the eight-generation Sonata is a four-door coupe-styled sedan that showcases Hyundai’s ‘Sensuous Sportiness’ design language. The Sonata, he said, represents Hyundai’s future design vision, which incorporates advanced safety systems and cutting-edge technology that is engineered to be seamless and intuitive in function. Suffice to say that the latest Sonata is the first model to adopt Hyundai’s new innovative ‘third generation’ modular vehicle platform, which delivers increased strength and reduced weight to enable improvements in design, safety, efficiency and driving performance. ”The new generation Sonata is also offering reduced weight and improved fuel efficiency while achieving stronger durability with the new platform,” Loasby said. The sophisticated multi-load path increases the energy absorbed by the vehicle in a collision thus improving safety and minimising collision impact in the passenger cabin. Hyundai said the platform has been designed to allow the tyres to move outward during a small overlap collision to maximise occupant’s safety. This particular technology prevents the vehicle from spinning and prevents possible secondary collision. The extended application of Hot Stamping, Hyundai reiterated, is capable of preventing deformation of the passenger room, thereby improving vehicle safety as well as enhancing power, driving performance, which has all been infused in the next generation engine called the Smartstream Powertrain. Also featuring a system that controls the flow of air, the Sonata improves air movement to the engine bay and heat dissipation, which enhances stability in the lower part of the vehicle and subsequently minimising air resistance to deliver excellent efficiency and power performance. The Korean automaker said this transformation will enhance handling by dramatically expanding lateral stiffness while positioning the steering closer to the wheel centre and providing stable and balanced driving performance through tyre-optimisation technology. Hyundai Motor Company Vice President Architecture Group Fayez Abdul Rahman said: “through the implementation of the third-generation platform, the new generation Sonata is expected to provide world-class value in overall vehicle performance. “The new Sonata will gradually expand the use of a new platform in order to provide the joy of driving and comfort to the customers.” Established in 1967, Hyundai Motor Company has employed more than 110,000 people worldwide. Hyundai has sold more than 4.5 million vehicles globally.