All is seemingly not well among the Ijaw people in the Niger Delta as a result of recent announcement by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to engage new employees in the corporation. Already, the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide has expressed displeasure over the recruitment process, saying it lacked transparency and fairness. The IYC particularly alleged that the corporation was sidelining qualified Ijaw people from its recent employment process. The Ijaw youths held an emergency meeting in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital recently to criticise the process. Speaking after the meeting, the IYC Secretary-General, Alfred Kemepado, alleged that the employment announced recently by NNPC had been hijacked by some powerful people at the corporation and the Presidency. Kemepado said it smacked of injustice and unfairness for the Ijaw people, who suffer pains of oil exploration and exploitation, to be marginalised whenever there are job opportunities in the oil sector, especially the NNPC. He said: “Recently, you may have discovered that NNPC advertised for qualified individuals to apply for various positions in NNPC and applications were made around the country and as qualified and competent as the Ijaw are, most of us also applied for those jobs. “But information reaching us indicate that the Presidency has hijacked the process of recruitment and that the Ijaw people are being sidelined and we find that very offensive for many reasons. “One of the reasons is that we cannot continue to dwell in a country where they come around the Niger Delta, especially in the Ijaw territory drill the oil, take the oil and sustain this country called Nigeria and leave us with the associated diseases such as leukemia and the degraded environment. But when there is opportunity for employment, our people are always sidelined, marginalised and not considered at all. We find that very offensive.” Describing the situation as intolerable, Kemepado appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the new Group Managing Director (GMD) of NNPC to look into the issue and consider Ijaw people who are qualified for the existing job opportunities. “We appeal to the Presidency and the new GMD to look into this issue and ensure that Ijaw people who applied for those positions, whom we know are qualified for these positions should be considered and not sidelined by the list from the Presidency. “If that really happens, we will take it as an insult. From the inception of this government, we have been provoked many times. The time officials from the Presidency visited the Niger Delta, they promised that international oil companies would relocate to the Niger Delta. We did not see that happen. But we frown at this one and we are calling on the Presidency to have a rethink and do what is right.” Kemepado also maintained that the IYC received information to the effect that, following the appointment of the new boss of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the corporation would be restructured, even as he called on the Federal Government to consider Ijaw people during the process. He noted that Ijaw youths had been trained in the activities of the oil sector through various interventionist programmes such as the Amnesty Office, the NDDC and other scholarship schemes sponsored by the government. “They are eminently qualified since they possess local and foreign certificates. So, nobody can doubt the competence of the Ijaw people. Therefore, the country should not continue to provoke this region. The Ijaw Youth Council and the elders have done our beat to keep the peace in this region. “Let us make it abundantly clear that the peace that President Buhari has enjoyed for the past four years and the peace that has prevailed as a result of the continuous flow of oil was not as a result of what this government has done for the people of the Niger Delta. “It is only as a result of our resolve as a people to keep the peace here with the hope that in situation such as this, our people will not continue to be sidelined and I don’t want the Presidency to push its luck too far and further provoke our people.