The Federal Government is planning to unveil new services on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line to make it more attractive. But that may affect projections for passengers, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Have you been looking for a venue beyond the prying eyes of the public for your board meetings or conferences? Are you a politician looking for a venue for your strategy session? Why not try the rail? To the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), this is not only a possibility, the conference coach has  become a reality and it will be available to customers on demand  on the Lagos-Ibadan, Abuja-Kaduna and Itakpe-Warri routes. The conference coach is a luxury on wheels, with a setting that can accommodate about 30 chairs, soothing lighting effect and communication systems. It is complete with a mini-bar, from where light snacks, breakfast or lunch can be served in a bespoke ambience, and a toilet facility, all tailored to serve those with eyes for luxury. NRC Chairman Alhaji Ibrahim Alhassan and the Managing Director Fidet Okhiria, an engineer, led the corporation’s new directors  to have the first feel of the conference coach, which was delivered last week. The board met CCECC, the contractor, and supervising consultants on board the train, rather than at its last destination at Ibadan. “With this coach, we intend to attract captains of industries and interested firms or politicians to have their board meetings, conferences or strategy sessions on the rail. The attraction is that it is exclusive and private,” Alhassan said. He said the NRC had brought this offering to the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge to complement the state’s position as the nation’s economic and commercial hub. “We envisaged that just as we are experiencing surge on the Abuja-Kaduna route, the Lagos-Ibadan route would be over-subscribed, and we want to break the bar of possibilities for anyone who could pay for extra comfort on the wheels,” he added. The conference coach is complemented by the VIP coach yet to be delivered, which has 24 adjustable or collapsible seats. “You may wish to rest, or just relax after your meeting, we have  Very Important Personalities (VIP) coach, with 24 collapsible seats, that can be collapsed into a bed. It can also be rotated to about 180 degrees, just to enjoy the scenery away from worries or pressures. It has a spa and massager bay, just for your comfort,” Alhassan further disclosed. Bolanle Adebayo, a business executive, said: “With the way the Nigerian super rich love luxurious lifestyle, it would not be long before exclusive meetings would be holding on the train and companies would be competing to have a taste of the offerings.” The NRC said no less than 60 coaches and 200 wagons have been ordered for the speed train transit. They will be driven by 30 locomotives. Also to be added to the rolling stock on the standard gauge are two Diesel Multiple Unit (DMU) of 10 coaches each. Okhiria said the entire rolling stock, which are of various capacity, would not be tied to the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, but  distributed to other routes to provide more services to Nigerians. “We intend to add more coaches to the Abuja-Kaduna route, so that we have more transit frequency on that route, and on the Itakpe-Warri route to boost mass speed train transportation,” Okhiria further stated. Abandonment The story of the standard gauge in Nigeria is a litany of abandonments, synonymous with what was then known as the white elephant projects – an euphemism for those projects that were not conceived to be completed by successive administrations. The first standard gauge could be said to have begun in 1983, when the Shehu Shagari-led administration conceived the Itakpe-Warri standard gauge as an industrial line to feed the Ajaokuta Steel Mills, which was meant to stimulate the metallurgical and steel industry. The dream of a commercial speed train system, however, took off in Nigeria under the late General Sani Abacha in 1995, when the engineering design and surveys of the standard gauge rail lines were carried out on the western and eastern rail corridors. Soon after Abacha, it was another lull as successive administrations simply abandoned the project, until the Obasanjo administration signed the contract for the development of the standard gauge rail line, and turned the sod on the construction of the Abuja-Kaduna rail line. It was the Goodluck Jonathan administration that provided the cash backing for the project and Nigeria was put on the map of nations using the speed train systems for transportation. The tone set by the Jonathan administration was however crystallised by the Buhari administration which inherited the project, and delivered the Abuja-Kaduna speed train, as well as the Itakpe-Warri standard gauge, for which the alteration of its original purpose as an industrial line, necessitated the construction of many stations for commercial passenger and cargo purposes. The Buhari government also shopped for funding for the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, being executed through a loan from the China Export Import Bank (China EximBank). Work started in 2017. Fielding questions last Thursday, Okhiria said the project is about 70 percent completed with the second line just about six kilometres to Ibadan, where it linked the Ibadan dry port initiative, driven by the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) as part of Federal Government’s efforts to decongest the port. He said when the tracks were completed, attention would be shifted to Lagos where work had been slowed down as a result of some challenges ranging from obstruction to the right of way and the challenges of executing such a huge project in a built environment. Apart from some structures that are yet to be pulled down as a result of festering litigation over compensations, the contractor, it was gathered, is still battling with encumbrances at the Agege and Apapa end of the contract, which may slow down the pace of work. Water pipes, valves, oil and gas pipelines and bridges are some of the impediments that still dog the project on the Lagos corridor. Lagos-Ibadan standard guage takes Oct Okhiria said the challenges are daunting, but not insurmountable. He said the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge would be opened in  October. “From October we would begin passenger traffic on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge. We should be able to run from Agege to Ibadan without any stress while work continues from Agege to Ebute-Metta Junction, and from there to Apapa, where the contract would terminate to begin cargo freighting from the ports by rail. “As the contractor handles the linking of the rail to Apapa, it would also be delivering on the 10 medium and mega stations lined up for the route,” Okhiria said. He assured that all the 10 stations designed for the route would be completed by December. Transportation and logistics experts said the solution to traffic congestion lies in the exploitation of intermodal transportation system where the rail serves the critical needs of moving the more people. At peak period, trains account for three million passenger traffic in the United Kingdom; in Nigeria, the rail system hardly carries over a million passenger traffic yearly. With a population of 200 million and Lagos alone accounting for over 26 million, the potential of the train to optimise its potential, whether on the passenger or cargo traffic, are possible, a freight forwarder Mr. Tola Adebayo, said. NRC Board member Kayode Opeifa said the feat of achieving the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge within the time frame of three years was commendable. He praised the Buhari administration and the commitment of the former Minister for Transportation for bequeathing to Nigerians a worthy legacy. “For most of us, this is the first time our generation is seeing the construction of a railway line as the narrow gauge was constructed in the 19th century. That is the more reason we must appreciate all those who put their integrity on the line to ensure that this project is completed within record time. We are happy that this is almost nearing completion and we do hope that the next lot- Ibadan to Kano would as well as all other projects lined up for execution by this government would be given expeditious execution,” he said. Another Director Alhaji Muhammed Musa Bayero could not hide his excitement as he rode the speed train. “We are excited at the pace of work. We salute the commitment and sacrifices that has pushed this project to this level. We are certainly on the cruise to the next level and a ride on this train has further confirmed to us that the train project is on course,” he said. His excitement was no doubt infectious. It underlies the yearnings by silent Nigerians longing for good times and a promise which the train exemplifies.