A leading commercial and residential real estate development firm, Global Property Partners (GPP), has laid the foundation of its 14-floor tower, The Pacific Lagos. Located on 20 Ozumba Mbadiwe Street on Victoria Island, Lagos, The Pacific Lagos, according to the Chief Executive Officer of Cavalli Business and Investment Group, GPP’s parent company, Mr. Emmanuel Odemayowa, was modelled on mixed used property developments in some of the world’s leading economies and was designed to provide Nigerians with a “Live, Work and Play” environment “comparable with the best internationally”. He said The Pacific Lagos was the product of many years of research,  to build “a vertical mixed high-rise structure” that would meet the diverse lifestyle needs of its residents in terms of convenience, access to the commercial nerve centres of Lagos and premium facilities. Odemayowa also said the new high-rise project was in line with the Cavalli Group’s vision of helping to reduce Nigeria’s severe housing deficit through the development of real estate modelled on international standards, adding that the Group had completed various real estate projects across Lagos. GPP Chairman Gbenga Onabanjo, an architect, said The Pacific Lagos comprised commercial spaces, residential one and two-bedroom apartments as well as penthouse suites and a recreational area. He also said the building was designed to offer breathtaking views of the Lagos Lagoon and the Atlantic Ocean from its upper floors, adding that it would be equipped with a suspended mosaic-tiled swimming pool, round-the-clock security and facility management,  a recreational floor with gym, spa/massage facilities, games room, shopping mart as well as restaurant and bar. The projected completion period is 36 months (2022). A Director, Mr. Tunde Adaramaja, assured investors that the GPP had financial arrangements to ensure it would meet the completion date. Furthermore, due to the unique location of The Pacific Lagos, investors are guaranteed a good return on investment whether as rental value or capital appreciation of the property. Aside the foundation laying, GPP also opened the showroom for The Pacific Lagos where potential investors can access relevant information on the mixed used development as well as make enquiries on the property. Also launched at the event last week was the Pacific Mutual Investment Plan, a product introduced by GPP to offer flexible investment options for the Pacific Lagos from as low as N10 million.