Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) Chairman, Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin has told Education Secretaries to be diligent in running their Local Government Education Authorities (LGEA). Speaking at a meeting with the 20 Education Secretaries at the Lagos SUBEB headquarters in Maryland, Sopeyin said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu desired progress in the sector. He said the governor and his deputy, Dr Olufemi Hamzat, had been visiting schools to ensure repairs of facilities. Sopeyin said in an interview after the meeting: “The Governor (and the deputy governor) since he assumed duty has shown a lot of passion for education – particularly in the area of provision of infrastructure for children in our schools – also to ensure that things go on as expected in schools. We have no choice than take a cue from his feelings, it is a riot act to Education Secretaries to do what is expected of them as managers of education in their various LGEAs to go back to hold meetings with various staff, let them know what is expected of them towards promoting basic education in Lagos State.” The SUBEB chair said the Education Secretaries were reminded of laws governing the regulation of education in the state, and urged them to ensure they were kept. “We discussed zero tolerance to illegal fee collection; keeping adequate sets of records;                      and submission of data on time anytime data is required as a matter of urgency,” he said. He added that the Education Secretaries have been told to direct schools under them to beautify setbacks around their fences to check use of the spaces by criminals; check excesses of teaching and non-teaching staff on discipline in schools, saying some workers beat children excessively; and address problem of insecurity. Regarding improving infrastructural facilities in schools, Sopeyin told The Nation that the government would soon carry out repairs, starting with schools where there are urgent needs. “The governor and deputy governor have been going round to have first-hand information on the situation of schools, especially with the infrastructure. He is working assiduously that after the long holidays. I believe the projects will cut across the state,” he said. Asked what government plans to address the shortfall of teachers in the state, Sopeyin said the board was gathering data to know where teachers are needed. “First we need to gather data of teacher population in our primary schools. We want to see whether we have them more than necessary in some areas. When we have been able to get this data, we will make appropriate recommendations to His excellency. We have started gathering the data,” he said. Sopeyin also spoke of an upcoming under-13 football competition for primary and junior secondary school pupils in the 20 LGEAs.  He said a committee had been put in place to organise the competition which would help discover talents in the sports who can be groomed for national duty in future.