How time flies in the Nigerian crypt!!! A few weeks back, in preparation for his eightieth birthday which actually came a week after, Nigeria’s notable political play-maker, newspaper baron and reporter extraordinaire, Akinrogun Segun Osoba, gathered the cream of Nigerian society together for the launch of his memoir at Eko Hotel. As usual with Osoba, the whole thing was put together with meticulous and painstaking attention to details, brimming with class and conviviality.  Not known to give anything to chance or mere happenstance, the celebrant himself was known to have slipped out of the venue in the early hours of the morning after supervising the dress rehearsal. In the event, it turned out to be a movable feast with the hall overflowing with movers and shakers of contemporary Nigerian society. You must give this to Osoba, there is nobody in contemporary Nigerian journalism or politics who can boast of his vast connections or his capacity for high-wire networking and nocturnal carousals in the deepest sanctuaries of power. Smart, knowledgeable and dependable when it comes to protecting and respecting the integrity of his sources, the Egba-born chief is also a man of immense personal charms and cultivation. The accolades, encomiums and delivered tributes were raining down fast and furious this temperate mid-morning. For Osoba, it was a canonization of sorts as a doyen of journalism and as a political don. In a public career spanning almost sixty years during which he reached the apex of his chosen profession (journalism), and his adoptive career, (politics),  Osoba can be said to have seen it all. In the process, he has survived crippling controversies and damaging rumours. As the Chinese will put it: If you stay long enough at the bank of the river, the bodies of your enemies will wash by. It is a measure of the vast centrality of Osoba to the Yoruba Question in the combustible postcolonial conundrum that Nigeria has become that his remarkable rise in the politics of his beloved nation should be used to illustrate, illuminate and interrogate the plight of Yoruba dwellers in the postcolonial space named Nigeria. In a chilling advertisement of unresolved contradictions and political palavers to come, Osoba’s birthday bash was preceded by a nasty public spat with Chief Ayo Adebanjo, the Afenifere grandee and political pugilist exemplary. As it is well known, Pa Adebanjo is a rough and ready veteran of the old Action Group ‘up and at em’ school of political hostilities. He does not take hostages and neither does he believe in the Geneva Convention for handling political prisoners. Like old Joe Frazier, aka Smokin’ Joe, Papa comes swinging in relentless political attrition. Luckily, Osoba himself was a boxer in his youth. Yet the public spat between the two notable Yoruba sons indicate the tortuous trajectory of ethnic politics in the last twenty years of post-military Nigeria. The spat would have been unthinkable in the months after the demise of General Abacha, Nigeria’s most ferocious military dictator and maximum ruler till date. At that point in time, the Afenifere, as a result of its leading role and sterling contribution to the liberation of the Yoruba race from Nigeria’s military despots, had the entire Yoruba nation under its writ and authority. Its firm sway was unchallenged and unchallengeable except by the politically suicidal. Its leader, Abraham Adesanya, who had escaped Abacha’s bullets by the whiskers, was universally acknowledged as the leader of the Yoruba people at home and abroad. Osoba had escaped Afenifere’s severe sanctions by the skin of his teeth over what was perceived as his colluding and collaborative stance towards the much despised military oligarchy. Osoba’s retort was that as a tested politician who had to survive to fight another day, he needed to warehouse his teeming supporters by aligning with one of Abacha’s leprous parties. Unable to overrun or overpower Osoba politically, the old men agreed to a power-sharing truce which saw them imposing his deputy. It was a typically Yoruba fudge which was to repeat itself in Osun, Lagos and Ekiti in different variations and variables and it shows in bold relief the clash of political values and the monstrous contradictions of a people caught in the vortex of a multi-ethnic nation in traumatic transition. The subsequent elections ended in a massive victory among the Yoruba people for the Afenifere-powered AD. But as it often happens to the ascendant Yoruba leadership after each successful mobilization of the people, the wheels began to come off the train shortly thereafter. As an unstable ideological coalition and ensemble of irreconcilable personal ambition, the dominant Yoruba post-independence leadership has never been able to manage the spoils of victory. In bitter defiance of an Afenifere leadership that he felt had betrayed him and had sought to destroy him politically, Bola Ige, brilliant orator, poet and master political strategist, went his own way and joined the Obasanjo government first as Attorney General and later as Minister of Mines and Power. He was assassinated in December,2001. By then, the cracks had widened and a splinter group emerged filled with Ige loyalists. Thereafter, a tense truce obtained between the core leadership of Afenifere and the AD governors. It was a case of a nuclear deterrent borne out of the logic of mutually assured destruction. With military precision and devastating ingenuity, Obasanjo was engineering a massive internal fracturing of opposition parties and AD was to bear the brunt of the offensive. By early December 2002 when yours sincerely came home from his United States’ base to unveil his latest novel, it was obvious that all was not well with both the Afenifere and the AD. But the tense truce somehow prevailed. At the ceremony graciously and gracefully presided over by Governor Osoba for which this columnist remains eternally grateful, all the great Afenifere leaders were in full attendance: Pa Abraham Adesanya, Sir Olaniwun Ajayi, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Senator Cornelius Olatunji Adebayo, our former teacher at Ife, and their numerous loyalists. The Yoruba forest quaked and rumbled with the presence of these political pachyderms that morning at the iconic Airport Hotel, Ikeja. It was perhaps the last great public sighting together of these Yoruba titans. Despite the stress and strains of untoward political developments, Pa Adesanya was particularly in his elements with his wisdom-laden witty repartees and heavy-duty innuendoes hinting of the need to inject new blood into Yoruba leadership and the urgency of broadening the process of leadership recruitment. But fourteen months later on March 15, 2004 when yours sincerely returned to deliver the maiden Afenifere lecture, all the pretences had disappeared and full-scale civil hostilities reigned supreme in Yorubaland. A political tsunami triggered from Aso Rock had swept off all the AD governors including Osoba but with Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the lone survivor. The falcon could no longer hearken to the falconer and bitter recrimination was loosed on the Yoruba nation with the Afenifere grandees accusing the AD governors of insubordination and perfidy and with the governors charging back that it was the old men who betrayed the party and the Yoruba nation to Obasanjo’s wily machination. A blossoming romance between the old men and Gbenga Daniel, Osoba’s presumed electoral conqueror, could not have been designed to smooth ruffled feathers. The old men retorted that Daniel was a staunch member of the Afenifere group right from his days as a youthful student of the University of Lagos. It was perhaps the proverbial last straw. By 2007, everybody had gone their different ways with Osoba teaming up with Tinubu to form the AC while the remaining Afenifere faithful floated a party called DPA which adopted General Buhari as its presidential flag bearer. Meanwhile, Daniel happened to have belonged to the PDP. Two weeks ago, in an engrossing irony which underscores the harshly expedient nature of contemporary Yoruba politics,  Justus Gbenga Daniel sat resplendent in the front row of the crowd that came to honour Chief Segun Osoba having teamed up with Osoba to dislodge Ibikunle Amosu and his nominee from his Olumo redoubt. But while all this is going on and while Afenifere sustains its blistering anti-Buhari broadsides, it is the much berated Obasanjo who is gaining traction and making inroad into the heart of the Yoruba political mob with his campaign against the “Fulanization” of the nation and the mismanagement of our ethnic diversity by the Buhari administration. It is clear from all this that all is not well once again and the Yoruba nation is at the proverbial political cross-roads. Obasanjo must be chuckling to himself when Yoruba governors, in what is known in legal parlance as an overstatement of insecurity, exploded at their Akure summit that they were not bastards. Well…. It shows the phenomenal pressures building up on all sides. The closeness of the last presidential election in the South West betrayed a Yoruba ambivalence about a paradigm-changing handshake across the Niger which has brought national relevance and strategic visibility to many of their children but which has also eventuated in poverty, general insecurity and looming famine as a result of the activities of murderous Fulani herdsmen and the tardy response of the federal authorities. Like all nationalities that have found themselves boxed into a multi-ethnic cauldron of seething hostilities and mutual incomprehension, the Yoruba are equally traumatized by the Nigerian conundrum. The result is a certain ambivalence and vacillation when it comes to the Nigerian project. As people of empire, it has been wired into the Yoruba DNA to have a conservative reverence for the state as the ultimate guarantor of order, peace, security and stability. Going by this worldview, order and stability are to be cherished over and above anarchy and social cannibalism. In more than a thousand years of relentless experimentation with statehood in its clinical and classical feudal mode, the Yoruba have evolved away from some of their near neighbours who have had to forge a different route despite physical closeness and geographical proximity. This is a source of abiding tension and mutual irritability, often leading to accusations of betrayal and perfidy. The subsisting reverence and affection the Yoruba people have for their monarchs show the lingering ideological efficacy of the old formation despite the cessation of its material and political basis. Last week, it was the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who issued a yellow card to the federal authorities as a result  of what he called the nation’s slide into anarchy and general disorder. It shows the progressive libertarian streak of the Yoruba nation coming to the fore as they warm up for a final confrontation over the destiny of the nation. Yet in all this, there is need for utmost caution so that we do not goad our people to the altar of mindless slaughter in the hands of a Nigerian post-colonial state which has turned out to be the ultimate fascist terror machine. This is not the time to start issuing unenforceable orders. Sheer desperation is not a strategy but a sign of political impotence. This time calls for visionary leaders and strategic thinkers. While not being a military leader, Chief Obafemi Awolowo was an exemplary politician and strategic thinker whose choices of political action were always guided by an acute awareness of the balance of forces at play. This he demonstrated during a grave period of Yoruba history in the aftermath of his release from prison and the terrible events emanating from the two coups of 1966. Rather than resorting to empty sabre-rattling, those who consider themselves Awolowo’s true heirs must go back to the events of that period and learn appropriate lessons of history. According to a great Chinese general, the best victory in war is the one won without firing a single shot. Here is wishing Chief Segun Osoba many happy returns of the 15th of July.