THE police in Ogun State have rescued seven kidnapped
victims, including the three employees of Lafia Hospital, Apata, Ibadan, Oyo
State. They were reportedly rescued on July 27, inside
Fidiwo/Onigari forest, along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It was gathered that their rescue followed a manhunt for
suspected criminals said to have kidnapped the hospital workers on July 23. Police sources said Inspector-General of Police (IG)
Mohammed Adamu had ordered the deployment of air and ground forces in the
forest to arrest the kidnappers and rescue the victims. Following this directive, it was learnt that Police
Commissioner Bashir Makama mandated his deputies to carry out the mission and
assisted them with technical and forensic investigation tools. Confirming the rescue, spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy
Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the victims had been reunited with their
families. He said operatives raided area, forcing the kidnappers to
push out their victims. “It was then we discovered that the victims were seven and
not three. We discovered that four other persons were kidnapped on July 24, but
the incident was not reported. Seven victims were rescued in all on July 27 and
they have been reunited with their families. “We arrested a suspect who is believed to have taken part in
the kidnapping. He is assisting the police in their investigation. Forty others
were arrested during a raid of surrounding forests and vulnerable points. We
recovered illicit drugs from them. “They are being investigated. Whoever is culpable among them
will be arraigned. The command will not rest on its oars to ensure crimes
become a thing of the past in Ogun State,” Oyeyemi said. An indigene of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, has been
linked to the July 23 abduction of three persons, including Kayode, the son of
the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of Lafia Hospital, Apata, Ibadan, Dr.
Oladipupo Sule, by bandits on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The suspect, who was earlier convicted of kidnapping, was
arrested inside Fidiwo/Onigari forest on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway when the
Ogun State Police Command’s special force comprising Anti-Kidnapping, Special
Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS) and detectives stormed the forest and smoked the
bandits out. Kayode and two others – all said to be workers of Lafia
Hospital, were rescued in the forest.