Nigerian women have proven their grit in the areas of business and governance. Nigeria is home to female entrepreneurs. Many of the females in Nigeria have risen to the zenith of their careers by hard work, resilience and determination. This article focuses on Nigerian females who aspire to become successful someday. Here is a list of nine successful and influential female Nigerians you should know. Stella Chinyelu Okoli: Dr Stella Chinyelu Okoli li is a pharmacist and entrepreneur that has gone ahead to build a multi-million dollar pharmaceutical company widely known as Emzor pharmaceutical. Stella had started out a pharmacy in 1977 with the name “Emzor Chemists Limited” as small pharmacy retail shop in Somolu, Lagos State but went on to build it into a pharmaceutical empire now known as Emzor Pharmaceutical. The University of Bradford trained Pharmacist has since controlled one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in Nigeria with over 50 products since its incorporation in 1984. Wealth Source: Pharmaceuticals Company: Emzor Pharmaceuticals Age: 75 Folorunsho Alakija: Folorunsho Alakija is the 87th most powerful woman in the world according to Forbes. In 2014, she caught the glimpse of the world when she unseated Oprah Winfrey in the Forbes Billionaires list to become the richest woman of black descent alive. Wealth Source: Oil and Gas Company: Famfa Oil Limited Age: 68 Mo Abudu Mosunmola Abudu is the graduate of the University of Westminster. She has been described as “Africa’s Most Successful Woman” by Forbes. The 54-year-old media mogul emerged Africa’s most influential female media mogul with the establishment of her Media and Entertainment City Africa in early 2000s. The media company had gone ahead to unveil EbonyLife TV in 2006, a network airing in more than 49 countries across Africa, as well as in the UK and the Caribbean. In 2013, she was listed as one of the 25 Most Powerful Women in Global TV by The Hollywood Reporter and in 2015, her media company ventured into movie making. Her first shot at movies, “Fifty,” was a hit that was soon followed by The Wedding Party 1 and 2, grossing over a N100m in cinemas in 2017. Wealth Source: Media Company: EbonyLife TV, Media and Entertainment City Africa Age: 54 Oby Ezekwesili Obiageli Ezekwesili is one of the most influential females in Nigeria at the moment. Her influence is one that has amassed youths and middle aged Nigerian as followers on social media and in the country. She is a chartered accountant who co-founded Transparency International, serving as one of the pioneer directors of the global anti-corruption body based in Berlin, Germany. The social activist served as Nigeria’s Federal Minister of Solid Minerals and then as Federal Minister of Education during ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo’s second term in office. She has since served as the Vice-President of the World Bank’s Africa division from May 2007 to May 2012. Wealth Source: Accountancy, Economic Policy Company: Board member, Bharti Airtel Age: 56 Biola Alabi Abiola Alabi found her way into the top league of successful and influential Nigerian women when she held the position of Managing Director for M-Net Africa, part of the Naspers Group. Before her role, Biola had worked as part of the executive team at the influential children’s television brand Sesame Street, and a member of the marketing team that launched the Korean motor vehicle corporation Daewoo in the United States of America. She is known to have achieved several feats while with M-Net Africa where she also kicked off the AMVCAs, a movie award show that is gradually becoming the biggest in Africa. Biola, who kicked off her Biola Alabi Media company in 2016 after quitting M-Net Africa, is the founder of “Grooming for Greatness” a leadership development and mentorship program for a new generation for African leaders. In 2012, she was named one of the 20 Youngest Power Women in Africa by Forbes Magazine and a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader. Biola’s media outfit has tapped into the Nigerian, African and global market with a food travel docu-series, ‘Bukas and Joints’ and a movie, ‘Banana Island Ghost’, which grossed millions of Naira while in cinemas. Wealth Source: Media Company: Biola Alabi Media Age: 50 Betty Irabor Betty Irabor remains one of the powerful female publishers in Nigeria since the debut of her Genevieve Magazine. She is married to a broadcaster, Soni Irabor, Betty holds sway as the Editor-In-Chief and Chief Executive Officer of Genevieve magazine. A philanthropist and public speaker, Betty’s influence and strong point remain her campaign against breast cancer with an awareness programme that culminates into a society ball yearly. Known to have championed breast cancer awareness with her nonprofit known as Genevieve PinkBall Foundation, Betty’s magazine has continuously provided motivation and empowerment for female and young folks alike. Wealth Source: Media Company: Genevieve Magazine Age: 62 Linda Ikeji  Linda Ifeoma Ikeji is a young Nigerian model turned media entrepreneur.
She is widely referred to as the richest Nigerian blogger, who redefined the blogging-sphere in Nigeria. In August 2012, Linda was featured by Forbes Africa as one of Africa’s 20 Most Prominent Women. In the same year, she appeared on BBC’s Focus on Africa telling the world her story as a media entrepreneur with a force to reckon with. In 2014, Linda was the biggest Google Search trend in Nigeria and in 2016, Linda announced the creation of her median outfit which includes Linda Ikeji TV, Linda Radio and LindaIkejisocial. Wealth Source: Media Company: Linda Ikeji Media Age: 38 Tara Fela-Durotoye Tara Fela-Durotoye is a Nigerian makeup artist and lawyer. She is a pioneer in the bridal makeup profession in Nigeria. Tara launched the first bridal directory in 1999, set up international standard makeup studios and established the first makeup school in Nigeria. She is the founder and CEO of House of Tara International and creator of the Tara Orekelewa Beauty range, Inspired Perfume and the H.I.P Beauty range. In 2007, she was awarded the Africa SMME Award and the Entrepreneur award in South Africa and in 2013, Forbes listed her as one 20 Young Power Women In Africa. Wealth Source: Beauty
Company: House of Tara
Age: 42 Funmi Iyanda Funmi Iyanda is one of the most successful media personalities in Nigeria. She started her career after graduating from the University of Ibadan where she studied pharmacy. She delved into the media industry and has gained recognition for herself. With her love and passion for media, Funmi has produced a host of internationally nominated productions namely My Country Nigeria, a 3 part series commissioned by BBC, and nominated for “Best News Documentary”. Wealth Source: Media Company: Creation Television UK Age: 47