Just before the House resolved to proceed on two month recess to resume, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila finally announced chairmen of the 109 Standing Committees. But not all members were happy as some members, especially ranking ones, had frowns in their faces Many wondered why the Director General of the Gbajabiamila/Wase campaign organusatuon, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, was not featured on the committee list. He was not the only one. Former Minority Leader, Leo Orgor was missing on the list. So also was former Public Accounts Committee Chair, Hon. Kingsley Chinda. Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf, Hon. Chukwuka Onyeama and former chairman, Public Petition Committee, Hon. Uzonma Nkem Abonta, were absent The name of Hon. Yakubu Dogara former Speaker, and other Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) were also absent. Contrary to alleged promises to give opposition 60 committee slots, the PDP got 21 chairs, 30 Deputy Chairs. This ends a long wait for the Committee positions, on which to a large extent, campaign promises were hinged. The Speaker in the heat of his campaign pledged to give the opposition parties a sizeable number of committees. After the announcement, he however appealed to all those who were unable to get chairman and deputy of various Standing Committees to take it in good faith. According to the list, Hon. Wale Raji (APC-Lagos) was named as Chairman House Services; Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas, chairman Committee on Army; Hon. Aliyu Betara (APC-Borno) as chairman House Committee on Appropriations. Hon. Abiodun Faleke (APC-Lagos) was named as Chairman House Committee on Finance while Hon. Pascal Obi as chairman House Committee on Health Institutions; Hon. Luke Onofiok as chairman House Committee on Federal Judiciary; Hon. Akin Adeyemi as Chairman House Committee on Communications; Hon. Jimi Benson as Chairman, House Committee on Defence; Similarly, Hon. Wole Oke (PDP-Osun) was named as Chairman House Committee on Public Accounts while Hon. Abdullahi Bago (APC-Niger) who contested against Speaker Gbajabiamila was appointed Chairman House Committee on African Integration and Cooperation. Hon. Jerry Alagbasowas appointed as Chairman Public Petitions; Hon. Nasir Daura as chairman House Committee on Interior; Hon. Aisha Dukku as Chairman House Committee on Electoral Matters; Hon. Yusuf Buba, chairman House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Hon. Tunji Ojo as chairman House Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission; Hon. Tajudeen Abbas as Chairman House Committee on Land Transport; Hon. Johnson Ogbuma as chairman House Committee on Environment Hon. Lynda Ikpeazu as chairman House Committee on Maritime Administration & Education; Hon. Mohammed Jega as chairman House Committee on Internally Displaced Persons and Hon. Jonathan Gaza as chairman House Committee on Legislative Budget & Research. Also, Hon. Yusuf Kila as Chairman House Committee on Customs; Hon. Hadija Bukar Ibrahim as chairman House Committee on North East Development Commission; while Hon. Munir Baba as chairman House Committee on Agricultural Production and Hon. Adamu Faggae as chairman House Committee on Constituency Outreach. Others are: Hon. Nicholas Mutu, Chairman House Committee on Gas; Hon. Victor Nwokolo as Chairman House Committee on Banking & Currency; Hon. Bello Kumo as chairman House Committee on Police; Hon. Garba Datti as Chairman House Committee on Ports & Harbours; Hon. Ibrahim Babagida as Chairman House Committee on Capital Markets; The list also has Hon. Abubakar Ado as chairman House Committee on Information; Hon. Mustapha Dawaki as Chairman House Committee on Housing; Hon. Yemi Adaramodu as Chairman House Committee on Youth Development; Hon. Olumide Osoba as chairman House Committee on Sports; Hon. Abdullahi Salami as chairman House Committee on Poverty Alleviation; Hon. Kabir Idris as chairman House Committee on Civil Society; Hon. Femi Fakeye as chairman House Committee on Commerce; Hon. Ifeanyi Momah as chairman House Committee on FCT Judiciary; Hon. Abubakar Kabir as Chairman House Committee on Works; Hon. Benjamin Kalu as chairman House Committee on Media; Hon. Nwokocha Darlington as Chairman House Committee on Insurance; A fourth term member, Abonta said people should not be aggrieved by the distribution of the committee positions, saying since there are more people than the available slots, the Speaker couldn’t have satisfied everybody. “It is not possible for Mr. Speaker to satisfy everybody. People should not express shock. We are 360, he has just selected about 100 people. Even God didn’t satisfy everybody, he made some people short, some tall, some fat and some slim. “A lot of fourth term members were either left out of in places that weren’t their choice, but that does not mean that they will not be in the House and the new ones who got, they will learn. The important thing is that there should not be hard feelings. “It should not cause a problem. I will help to calm the situation. For me, I want a united House. The important thing is for us to forge ahead,” he said.