Most daughters start off life at full steam. They are the early talkers and want to be loved all the time. They are also open to pretty things, always want to look beautiful in the eyes of many. It is never easy to raise a female child. While some parents would say they rather have a male child than a female child is because the male is easier to train. As a parent, you should be able to accept a female child is also like a male child and they should be treated equally. Below are what you should do to build your daughter’s confidence: * Encourage Her Teaching your daughter to express her needs to adults and stand her ground with her peers should be your number one priority. If another child is being mean to her, encourage her to say “I don’t like the way you’re talking to me.” Most times the way we relate with our daughters they feel scared to share their problems with us. Don’t make your daughter freer with strangers than you. Let your daughter understand as her parents, you can also share her problems and help her overcome any challenges in life. * Be sincere in your compliments You should always tell your daughter how smart or how beautiful she is. Don’t allow her to get such compliments outside especially from the opposite sex and when you do you should be sincere about it and let her see the seriousness on your face. * Constant Conversation You should create a room for conversation between you and your daughter. If she is lonely and she can’t chat with her father or the mother freely, then you are telling her to find a chatting mate outside and that may result in bad influence. *Help her understand why she sometimes gets left out Let your daughter know that if she is not invited to every event or game she should not feel bad or think nobody loves her. Let her understand that when her fellow kid says “we can’t be friends,” it probably has more to do with that child’s bad mood so she can leave at that moment and try to talk to the kid later. Try to teach her to be contented with every little thing she has, tell her claiming something that is not hers is a crime that she should be honest with people around her. Tell her not to be stingy she should find it easy to share with friends especially those who are in need. *Encourage competence You should not be too quick to help your daughter with homework or chores. If she asks you for assistance tell her to work through it for a couple minutes. If you noticed she can’t finish the work on her own then you can give her a helping hand and tell her next time you won’t or may not be there to assists her. *Encourage her to participate in school games or debate You can tell your daughter that when playing with kids is always fun but let her understand that some games or play are not meant for kids and if her fellow kids are drawing her into it, she should be bold to resist such. Give your daughter the free hand to test her wisdom with other kids by participating in school debate. *Career choice Don’t decide for your daughter on what to do in life whatever a career she picks, you should give her the guideline and see her perfect it by supporting her academically, mentally and otherwise. Sometimes you don’t have to help her with ideas, allow her to be creative and able to create ideas for herself that will help in building her mentally and make her become a genius. *Try not to make assumptions about her strengths and weakness Just because your child is a girl doesn’t mean she will struggle to make things work for herself. If she is finding difficulty in handling issues by herself or trying other new things in life you should always tell her “You can do it” that alone will give her the courage to pick up such a challenge. Make your daughter understand that if she is scared to try new things or face challenges she will fail in life. She should be comfortable facing other kids and partake in giving out new ideas that it will build her confidence and ability to handle issues anywhere she finds herself. If your girl child is slow in making things down tell her that weakness is the key to backwardness and if she continues with that, she will miss opportunities in the future and will be left out while her mate will be making it in life. *Encourage her body image When your daughter asks the inevitable “Daddy, Mummy am I pretty?” you should answer her with an enthusiastic yes. When you praise your girl child appearance try to highlight her actions. “You looked so graceful today.” Don’t allow her to ask someone else outside because she might meet the wrong person and get a negative response that can change her mood of dressing and thinking. You can show her helpful models’ magazines that are properly dressed with that she can know what dress can go with her shoe or bag. *Prepare her for sexism Most parents feel ashamed to teach their female child about sex, if you can’t teach your daughter about sex then you are telling her to learn it from the outside world. Some girls when they get raped by older men they get scared to tell their guardian because of the distance relationship they are having with the girl child. If you teach her about sex at an early age if she hears it outside it won’t be new to her, tell her if she allows any man to touch her insensitive parts she will get unwanted pregnancy and that will bring shame to the family. If you allow her to get the answers she wants to get about sex outside then she may one day want to try it.