Three sociocultural and non-governmental groups based in the Southwest region of the country have called on President Muhammad Buhari to as a matter of urgency to give security challenges facing the various parts of the country the deserved attention before it degenerates into tribal and religious problems. This is as the groups, Southwest Youth Movement, Yoruba Koya Initiative and Arewa Youth Movement also called on the president to give attention to the youths in the proposed cabinet following the nomination and ongoing screening of ministerial nominees at the National Assembly. The groups made the call yesterday during a press conference organised by the Southwest Youth Movement (SYM), where they adopted and publicly declared a former Senate Leader, Prof Robert Boroffice, the leader of the groups in the region. Speaking on the rationale for calling on Buhari to beef up the security, the Convener and President, SYM, Comrade Temitope Ogunlade, said the groups, as grassroots organisations, have begun consultations with people in the local communities of the region to educate them on the need to collaborate with security operatives to tackle the challenges from bottom-up. Ogunlade explained that the working relationship between the three groups is an indication to ensure that it did not allow the security challenges in the region to turn to a tribal or religious affair against any particular group. He added that government at all levels, starting from the Presidency, must however give a clear direction as to how the issue is to be tackled headlong. On the inclusion of youths in the cabinet, the SYM leader said the press conference is a soft reminder to the President to fulfil his campaign promise to the youths in terms of political inclusion and job/employment opportunities in his second term administration. Justifying the choice of Senator Boroffice as a leader, Ogunlade, flanked by other zonal leaders of the groups at the press conference, said the Akokoland APC chieftain has proven over the years his commitment to the people of the state at large, beyond his senatorial district alone. The meeting was attended by delegates from the six southwest states including, Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Lagos and Ekiti. Ogunlade said “Security is a collective responsibility and we all have to encourage the government with our prayers. The government needs to do more by ensuring balance and support for groups in the areas of security because it is obvious that the region is not safe anymore. “Our groups believe in peace in ensuring that the country is secured. We are for peace and not violence. We have discovered that some people hide under the pretext of Fulani herdsmen to perpetrate evil and we are ready to nab them provided government gives the required support. “We are already meeting traditional rulers and various ethnic groups in the region as part of our efforts at bringing lasting solutions to the issues of insecurity in the Southwest region. Consultation is ongoing with people at the grassroots as to how to nip it in the bud.