Prison care advocate and musician, Yinka Lawanson a.k.a Lamboginny has condemned Naira Marley’s new song and dance, ‘Soapy’ as it “mocks the real struggles of prisoners.” News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Marley’s recently released ‘Soapy’, a song that glorifies masturbation which he claimed was a source of succour for prisoners based on his experiences in prison. Marley was arrested in May and spent weeks in prison over his alleged connection with internet fraudsters popularly known as ‘yahoo yahoo’. The dance which mimics male masturbation has since faced intense criticisms as some Nigerians insist that it was a public display of immorality under the guise of dancing. Lamboginny, who is well-known for advocating for improved prison care, noted that the dance mocked the real struggles of prisoners which were bigger than sex. He said, “Today, I’m dressed as a prison inmate to attend the International Human Rights Summit at the United Nations. “I’m using the opportunity to speak up for the 49,875 prison inmates awaiting trials for years in prisons across Nigeria. #KirikiriDonFull 1st of July 2019 #prisonreform. “The prison condition in Nigeria is a very sensitive and painful situation for thousands of inmates. “If after visiting the prison all you have to talk about is Masturbation dance! I will consider it mockery on the thousands of inmates who are in pain,” Lamboginny said. Lambo’s nonprofit SALT (Saving All Lives Together), raises money to bring music therapy programs to Nigerian youth prisons. SALT also pays the fines of young people held in prison for minor offenses like street begging, as well as the legal fees of young people who may have been wrongly convicted. “At some point I started fighting for some inmates that do not have to be in prison. I started fighting for them to get freedom, and started getting freedom for them,” said Lambo. NAN reports that earlier, award-winning dancers Kaffy, Don Flex and other celebrities also condemned the dance and urged Nigerians not to make it trend. (NAN)