As part of its business expansion, Hybrid Group has taken Dangerous Goods Management (DGM), one of the multinational business to Nigeria, having successfully operated in Ghana and Kenya. The DGM Group, which is known for handling dangerous goods transportation within and outside the country, provides a complete solution for hazardous materials. It has been operating since 1987 in over 45 countries across various continents of the world, helping individuals and businesses build the needed competences and structures to handle and manage dangerous goods. Speaking at the launch, the Chief Executive Officer, Dapo Omolade, said the main objective of the unveiling was to create awareness and inform Nigerians that Hybrid had received approval to commence business in Nigeria. He said: “We are now accredited and recognised as a member of the highly esteemed Dangerous Group Management (DGM) support, a global entity operating in more than 45 countries across various continents of the world. The group is helping individuals and businesses build the needed competences and structures to handle and manage dangerous goods. “DGM is highly recognised by government and private institutions like the International Air Transport Association, International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations, among others. They have, by extension, recognised our quality in the holistic management of dangerous goods,’’ Omolade said. He continued: “As the tagline of DGM Support says, ‘taking the dangers out of dangerous goods’, our focus is ensuring that the multi-modal transportation of dangerous goods are safe and without accidents.” Omolade also emphasised DGM will have positive impact on economy. According to him: “The economic landscape of Nigeria presently also lends good reasons for the launch of DGM Nigeria. This is because the company has competence and required resources to help reduce potential losses from poor management of dangerous goods, the scope of which ranges from all forms of chemical and allied products, to equipment, radioactive materials, etc that are transported and used in various sectors of the economy such as oil and gas, health institutions, pharmaceuticals, mining, telecoms, aviation and marine.” Director-General, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Muhtar Shaibu Usman, believed there is need to educate the public on the consequences and challenges of dealing with dangerous goods. Usman, who was represented by NCAA Flight Operations Inspector, Retired Group Capt. E. C Agu, said: “I am here not to talk about dangerous goods only, I am also here to say that awareness about dangerous goods is not good enough. “I am looking forward to seeing more adverts on dailies to educate people on the consequences and challenges of dealing with dangerous goods, which the public do not know.” Deputy Corps Commander Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Anthony Daudu, said transporting dangerous goods by road is a serious challenge that should be tackled by the Federal Government. Daudu, who was represented by the Lagos Zonal Commanding Officer, FRSC, Mike Obayemi, said: “This is a laudable business that will go a long way in rejuvenating the transport system in Nigeria.