Sir George Eche was a governorship aspirant in Imo State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with OKODILI NDIDI, the former Accountant-General of Imo State and former Secretary to the Government in the Rochas Okorocha administration, explains why the APC lost the state and expressed confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to taking the nation to the ‘Next Level’. What do you think should be the priority of President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term? Priorities you mean? A cursory look at the recent speeches and campaign promises of Mr. President indicates very clearly the areas of priority. Some of them don’t even need emphasis, given our level of development. For instance, insecurity is a cardinal issue, insurgency in the North, militancy in the South, kidnapping and violence everywhere. These have already made themselves priorities. Others like food security, eradication of corruption, development of infrastructure, provision of roads, education, and primary health care et al, can only take place in an atmosphere devoid of gunshots and bloodshed. To the glory of God, the ‘Next Level’ agenda, when fully and properly implemented, will address these issues and more. But as Mr. President is not permitted to seek a third term, he is expected to deal expeditiously with those matters that will ultimately make Nigeria a place of our collective dream. As a financial expert, how would you rate the economic performance of the nation under President Buhari’s watch? This President came in when the entire world economy was in deep recession and with Nigeria being a mono-economy, our case was embarrassingly different. Add monumental corruption, insecurity and decaying infrastructure to that and you would place Nigeria far below average by 2015. As you know, corruption and insecurity are being addressed headlong. Decaying infrastructure is on the front burner; talking about the roads, the railway lines, the 2nd Niger Bridge, the power and water projects that now dotting our national landscape etc. Despite that the world economic outlook suggests another recession looming large in the near future, our country’s economy is slowly but steadily walking and working out of the recession. In recognition of the maxim that economies ‘spend their ways out of recession’, the Federal Government, using the Central Bank, embarked on such projects as the TraderMoni, the Anchor Borrowers, and other micro, small and medium enterprises adventures. The Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF) which is a fund established to assist in this direction speaks volume to emphasis government intention as it provides funds for such borrowers as artisans, traders, general merchants, manufacturers and those in cottage industries without neglecting those dealing in renewable energy, agriculture and its value chain activities and so on and so on. The N8.91 trillion 2019 budget passed into law month end incubates a deficit of about N900 Billion. The deficit is another well-intended plan to expand the economy despite that the budget itself carries a drop from last year’s budget. So, all told, the economic activities of the Federal Government in the recent past are designed to place the economy on sound footing in a sustainable way focusing on development, security and eradication corruption. The NFIU has issued new directives on the management and control of local government funds. Do you think this will bring the much-advocated autonomy to local councils? First, you must commend the willpower of Mr. President, recalling that even past military governments only paid lip service to this issue. So, one can only wonder why it took so long coming, I mean, should have come yester years. Do you know that every square inch of land in this country belongs to one or the other of our 774 local governments? These are the most basic centres of development. So, if you get it right in the 774 of them, or at least majority of them, you will have achieved exponential development. However, it is important that the quality of leadership in the councils is improved upon for them to perform well and utilize their revenues maximally, whether internal or from Joint Account Allocation Committee (JAAC). They should not continue to act as revenue cows and political stooges of the governors. They must not also be let out of the overall control of the state as the Federal Government cannot control all 774 of them directly. Joint projects must continue to be done jointly for uniformity and quality control. Local government autonomy must come with necessary controls, checks and balances, so it doesn’t become a drain on the economy. State government will naturally complain for loss of control, knowing that he who pays the piper dictates the tunes. What is in issue here is the overall development of the nation and the economy – not who has control over the resources of the councils. If they do their oversight and control functions well, they will be partakers in the explosion of joy and development that will soon come in. Why did the APC lose power in Imo State in the last general elections? Imo APC is a study in self-destruction; a case of how to lose an election. Let us begin by highlighting that it was Imo PDP against the APC, which divided itself into three political parties. With every respect to our political topmost leaders and big men, the governorship candidate of APGA was pushed out of the APC. He left the party with a large chunk of members, in terms of population and goodwill. Similarly, the Action Alliance (AA) and its people were also core APC people who left when they couldn’t have things their way. Their departure also reduced the population and goodwill of the party. As for the reason for their departure, all of us know why and how they took another chunk of the APC with them. The remaining chunk of the party was like 35 per cent of the original all-conquering Imo APC, now having to fight a giant, monolithic, power hungry, resurging PDP. Failure was imminent and a natural follow up. Zonal sentiments played a cardinal role next to the greed and self-centeredness of the topmost leadership. Let us be clear on this, Imo State ranks very high in the comity of states when it comes to education. As Bob Marley reiterated in his popular quote, you can fool some people sometime, but you can’t fool all the people at all time. All the people of Imo therefore simply united to do the needful and the equitable in the fullness of time. Analysts are really going to deal with this matter in the nearest future; I can assure you volume of work will come out of it. People are really going to have to give a breakdown of this and then you will get volumes. With the PDP returning to power, after eight years in opposition, what are the APC’s chances of survival? After eight years in the political wilderness, Imo PDP stayed united and strong. So, Imo APC, now in the opposition, will still survive subject to actions pending by Abuja. For the eight years, Imo PDP was out of office in Imo State, they remained united and well-fed, because the majority of them were empowered while they were in office. Through the same eight years in which APGA, and later APC have held office, people have simply not been empowered; not party officials, not political appointees, not civil servants, public officers, not pensioners, not even market women or people in commerce, transport or health sectors. Coming back strong will also depend on how we are able to convince our people that the demons of the immediate past will not be empowered to harass our future. Clearly it will trigger a mass movement and exodus out of the party, if those who willfully destroyed it are put back in charge and in positions of authority. Don’t you know that one of the factions now recognised by the court is working for the Action Alliance? Imo APC top leadership therefore succeeded in creating a curious cacophony of aspiring contradictions where people hold down the tickets of the party and openly canvass for the candidates of another in an impure and most dubious imperfect alliance. Our ability to come back will also depend on perception: the actions, inactions and loquacious utterances of our top leaders in Imo State made the APC almost totally unmarketable. This situation now spreads across to the political spectrum of the entire Southeast and yet our very selfish leaders go to Abuja to maliciously tell them that the Southeast does not like Buhari or the Hausa/Fulani nation. Far from it! The immediate past government of Imo State simply has not represented the APC well, which is why no other state in the zone has joined the APC family. The Igbo have always aligned with the North all through time; check your political history, the NCNC, NPC, NPN etc. It’s therefore desperately wicked and deceptively self-reserving and in utmost bad faith for any person to peddle the lie that Imo people call him names, because he or she is the only one that loves Buhari or the North in the Southeast. You served under Okorocha as Accountant General and subsequently Secretary to the Government. At what point did you part ways with him? It is all politics and nothing personal. He wanted to be succeeded by his son-in-law. I didn’t think it was right and I made it clear to him. I even offered to play the plan B role, spare-tyre role for him and his son-in-law, but that didn’t go done well with him. So, while he had the right to support whom he pleased, persuaded by whatever factors, I also exercised my right to contest. And yes, I was Accountant-General, and later, Secretary to the State Government. I am faithful to God and to Owelle for these, but someone has to be appointed to do those jobs. The lot fall on me and I thank God I wasn’t found wanting, despite a whole lot of denials and turbulences. I was like a man who gratefully received a computer set, but could not operate the system, because the giver of the system has carefully and consciously removed the operating software; it is like a man who received power without the authority to exercise the power. Simply put, Imo people, and I am one of them, just couldn’t put up with the governorship nominee and indeed most other nominees that were undemocratically foisted on them for a whole lot of reasons. As it has happened recently, Imo APC doesn’t have one single member at the Federal House of Representatives, while the two senatorial candidates of the party are struggling for survival in court. It is a pathetic, especially if you realize that APC held power in the immediate past government. Since the inauguration of Governor Emeka Ihedioha, many of our party members have begun to move over. As you know, our politics is not yet rooted in principles and ideology – it’s a bread and butter thing — a food-on- the-table thing — a stomach infrastructure kind of thing; our level of development permits that. The situation of our members and the eight lean years of non-empowerment encourage it. Therefore, only the Federal Government by its actions can stem the tide.