In a bid to promote hygiene among mothers and children, and deepen the culture of cleanliness in the country, Dettol and its brand ambassador, Funke Akindele-Bello, have embarked on aggressive sensitisation in schools and hospitals. This is done through the Clean Naija initiative, an advocacy to educate new mothers and children on best health practices. To achieve this goal, Akindele-Bello, a mother herself, visited hospitals and schools in Lagos where she motivated and taught children and women to imbibe the practice of caring for their body through personal hygiene. According to the popular Nollywood actress, personal hygiene include bathing, washing of hands, regular brushing of teeth, and more, stressing that people often come in contact with millions of outside germs and viruses that can linger on their body, and in some cases, make them fall sick. To be on the safe side, according to Akindele-Bello, the use of Dettol can help in preventing bacterial infections. “Our goal is to get 20 million clean hands by the end of year 2020. And as such, I am personally championing the promotion of proper personal hygiene in Nigeria. This is possible because Dettol has products such as antiseptic liquid, anti-bacterial soap and hand sanitizer, which will be instrumental to the achievement of our mandate,” she said. Speaking on the rationale behind the campaign, Cassandra Uzo-Ogbugh, brand manager (purposeful marketing), Reckitt Benckiser, makers of Dettol and other hygiene products, quoted a report by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), which claimed that about 150,000 children under the age of five years die annually from diarrhea-related diseases. These deaths could have been prevented with better personal hygiene practices, the brand manager said. “With Dettol’s hygiene education programs, we strongly believe that with sensitisation and education on the importance of proper hand and personal hygiene, this statistics will be greatly reduced.” Uzo-Ogbugh explained further that the Clean Naija campaign aims to create awareness and drive behavioural change to achieve a cleaner and healthier Nigeria through ‘Dettol’s New Mums and School Hygiene’ programmes. Akindele-Bello was unveiled as Dettol’s brand ambassador in April this year to serve as a role model for mothers, children and other Nigerians to imbibe the culture of hand-washing and personal hygiene.