The FCT Police Command has released embattled Senator Elisha Abbo. The Senator was released on Friday afternoon after meeting his bail conditions. The Police however said his release does not signal an end to the investigation. His release, according to a highly placed source in the Police, may not be unconnected to the unavailability of some of the witnesses in the matter. Investigation done by The Nations revealed the Police were trying to put together all the witnesses. It was gathered the owner of the sex toy shop incidentally appears not to be in town. According to findings by The Nation, the investigators in the case are believed to be stalled in the investigation due to inability to access the original clips from the CCTV footage. The source, who is close to the investigating team, said: “We are trying to put together the witnesses and one of the key witnesses to the investigation appears to be unavailable at the moment. “In addition to that, we are also trying to retrieve the original clips from the CCTV footage so as to ensure that what is presently in circulation is not doctored.” On whether the Senator would be prosecuted upon conclusion of investigation, the Police source said: “We do not want to rush the matter to court without proper investigation and we cannot continue to keep him till eternity. “We don’t want to predict the outcome of the investigation but if he is found guilty, he will definitely be prosecuted.” When our reporter called to confirm the status of the Senator, the Force Spokesman, DCP Frank Mba said: “He was released on bail in line with constitutional provision pending the conclusion of investigation. “The investigation is ongoing and it is an active investigation and as soon as we tidy up every angle of the investigation, then we will proceed to charge him to court. “His release is in line with constitutional provision. It is important to note that his release does not signal an end into the investigation. “As a matter of fact, he is granted bail pending the conclusion of investigation. “The case is still actively under investigation and the suspect will be arraigned in a competent court of law as soon as investigations are concluded.”