Forum of State Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have resolved to back the candidacy of Arc. Waziri Bulama for the position of National Secretary. Rising from a three- day meeting in Abuja, the APC state chairmen said they were convinced about the commitment of Bulama to the growth of the party hence their decision to support his anbition. Other groups have endorsed Bulama, who was Deputy Director General (Coordination) of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) to replace the former National Secretary and current Governor of Yobe state, Mallam Mai Mala Buni including Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), which is the umbrella body of the President’s support groups. Sources close to the Forum said the state chairmen were not happy with the seeming lack of activities at the party secretariat, believing that having a substantive national secretary will up the game at the secretariat once more. The source said: “As you can see APC does not seem to be in government. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is still occupying spaces everywhere. ‘We feel that a substantive National Secretary of the party would make the party busy and bring more positive attention to the party. “ln this light, the State party chairmen have given their nod to Bulama to occupy the position after interacting with him.” Deputy Chairman of the Forum and Chairman of the party in Delta state, Prophet Jones Erue Ode confirmed that Bulama came to address them during their meeting and they resolved to work with him. He said: “We have agreed to work with him. We agreed to stand with him having listened to him and watched his tall credentials. “We need someone who can stand for our party, who is intelligent and has a lot of things working in his favour. We hail his credentials, we hail his integrity and sacrifice for our party as well as his commitment to our party and we said we will stand with him.” Filling the vacancy has been on the front burner of the party, as the National Working Committee recently appointed the Deputy National Secretary, Hon.. Victor Gaidom as the Acting National Secretary. 