It’s no longer news that Nigeria has signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement. But what is worthy of note is the processes that led to President Muhammadu Buhari signing the treaty a fortnight ago after delaying it for about a year. Nigeria became the 53rd nation to endorse the document, despite the African Union’s Heads of State and Governments resolving in the year 2012 to establish African Continental Free Trade Area treaty. It was aimed at creating a single continental market for goods and services in member nations. The treaty is also to cover agreements on trade in goods, services, investment, and rules and procedures on dispute settlement, including a range of provisions to facilitate trade, reduce transaction costs, provide exceptions, flexibilities and safeguards for vulnerable groups and countries in challenging circumstances. But President Buhari had pulled the breaks a year ago and stopped Nigeria from endorsing the document unlike many other African nations. He shunned the bandwagon effects last year and didn’t care if the ‘Giant of Africa’ will be the last nation to endorse the document. His eyes were focused on getting it right for Nigeria and not making Nigeria a dumping ground. He had then declared that Nigeria will only be signatory to the AfCFTA if the nation’s national interests, regional and international obligations are balanced. Buhari had particularly stopped the endorsement of the document in 2018 in response to the opposition against the treaty in Nigeria. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria (MAN) topped the groups that kicked against signing the treaty in 2018. They had warned that signing the treaty was extremely dangerous to Nigeria as it would open the country’s seaports, airports and other businesses to unbridled foreign interference and domination. The groups had pushed for proper consultations and inputs of all interest groups on issues concerning market access and enforcement of rules of origin So, Buhari immediately ordered for comprehensive consultations among the stakeholders in the country by setting up the Presidential Committee on Impact and Readiness Assessment African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) Agreement in October, 2018. By that singular act, Buhari has shown again that he was a listening President as he didn’t use presidential fiat to sign the document in 2018. Definitely, the heavens won’t have fallen if he had signed the documents a year ago. The Presidential Committee on Impact and Readiness Assessment African Continental Free Trade Area submitted its report to the President on 27th of June, 2019. After reviewing over 200 submissions from stakeholders in the country,  the 44-man steering committee, Chaired by Desmond Obadiah, recommended Nigeria to sign the treaty. He said “Your Excellency, our reports shows that on the balance, Nigeria should consider joining the AfCFTA and using the opportunity of the ongoing AfCFTA Phase I negotiations to secure the necessary safeguards required to ensure that our domestic policies and programs are not compromised.” Receiving the report, President Buhari said “It has been over a year now since the African Union Heads of States adopted the Phase I Agreement on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) at its 10th Extraordinary Summit in Kigali, Rwanda, on 21st of March 2018. “Since then, a lot has been said about Nigeria’s decision to conduct a detailed study on how this agreement will impact us as a country. “Let me state unequivocally that trade is important for us as a nation and to all nations. Economic progress is what makes the world go around. “Our position is very simple, we support free trade as long as it is fair and conducted on an equitable basis. “The AfCFTA will have both positive and negative effects on us as a nation and on our region.” “As you mentioned in your report, intra-African trade is only 14% of Africa’s total trade. Our consumption is mostly of goods imported from outside the continent. “For AfCFTA to succeed, we must develop policies that promote African production, among other benefits. “Africa, therefore, needs not only a trade policy but also a continental manufacturing agenda. Our vision for intra-African trade is for the free movement of “made in Africa goods”. That is, goods and services made locally with dominant African content in terms of raw materials and value addition. “If we allow unbridled imports to continue, it will dominate our trade. The implication of this, is that coastal importing nations will prosper while landlocked nations will continue to suffer and depend on aid. “As I stated during the inauguration of this Committee, many of the challenges we face today, whether security, economic or corruption are rooted in our inability, over the years, to domesticate the production of the most basic requirements and create jobs for our very vibrant, young and dynamic population. “Henceforth, we shall ensure that our negotiated agreements create business opportunities for Africa’s manufacturers, service providers and innovators. “The AfCFTA we aspire to have should therefore not only create wealth for investors but also jobs and prosperity for our vibrant and hardworking citizens.” he said The President went on “I am very delighted to receive your report today and with the time spent, skills applied and energy invested, I am confident that the Committee has been thorough and diligent. “Let me assure you that your report will form part of the consideration in our decision on the next steps on the AfCFTA in particular and on broader trade integration subjects.” he said Keeping his promise, Buhari signed the treaty in Niger Republic last week Sunday. Looking back, the President, by allowing the consultation has shown again that he is a real democrat. The main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, may not see it this way as it has consistently asked the President to be more democrat in every aspect of governance in the country, including obeying court orders and adhering to the rule of law. But above all, Buhari, through the processes that led to signing the AfCFTA treaty, has exhibited his love for Nigeria again. He showed that he will not allow any harm to come upon Nigeria under any guise.