The Nigerian Army 1 Division, Kaduna on Friday completed the training of no fewer than 1,856 personnel of Nigeria Customs Service on weapon handling.
The News Agency of Nigerian (NAN) reports the 1,856 customs men, who were trained in 10 batches in 40 days, were drawn from Zone B of Nigeria Customs Service.
NAN reports that the training was held at the Martin Agwai International Leadership and Peace Keeping Centre, Jaji, Kaduna.
In his remarks at the closing ceremony, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 1 Division, Maj- General Faruk Yahaya, said the personnel had been grounded extensively on basic weapon techniques.
The GOC was represented by Brig. Gen. Tonye Numbere, Commander, 1 Division Engineering.
Yahaya explained that the overall objective of the training was to enhance their ability to handle and operate small arms and light weapons effectively while discharging their duties. “I am sure that you must have acquired the basic skills and knowledge on how to handle AK47 rifle and pistol which are commonest and simplest weapons that can be used to counter armed bandits in any circumstances.
“I am convinced that you are leaving this training institution today better equipped with the requisite knowledge on general use of small arms and light weapons to carry out your roles efficiently for effective policing of the nation’s border,” he said.
Yahaya expressed appreciation to the Chief of Army Staff for the opportunity to impart professional knowledge to the customs personnel in the quest to develop their capacity to tackle the contemporary challenges confronting the country.
Earlier, the Coordinator of the training, Col. Emmanuel Agada, said that the participants were trained in 10 batches for a period of 40 days.
Agada said the weapon handling training for the customs men covered series of lectures, outdoor exercises as well as practical shooting.
“Topics such as marksmanship principles, stripping and assembly, aiming and holding of weapons as well as safety precautions, among others, were delivered to the participants to broaden their knowledge on the AK47 rifle and pistol,” he said. (NAN)