Following possible threat to job security posed by digital technology, the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA) has advised workers to engage in continuous self-development if they want to survive the challenges posed by robotics. NECA’s Director-Genera, Olawale Timothy in an interview said whether Nigerians liked it or not, technological advancement in the workplace is catching up with the country fast. He dismissed fears that technological advancement would lead to massive job loss, pointing out that workers should acquiant  themselves with such technologies in order not to be caught off guide. Timothy said the organisation would educate its members on the new convention adopted at the conference against violence and harassment in the workplace to ensure a decent work agenda for workers. He said: “The advent of digital era or robotics as some people call it into the world of work has come to stay. Whether we like it or not, it is catching up with us in Nigeria. However, that assumption that it is going to translate to massive loss of jobs, especially in Nigeria is misplaced. “What is critical is that as stakeholders, both employers and employees, have roles to play so that workers will continue to be relevant in the work environment. As this development unfolds, workers are supposed to take kin interest self- development. “You should not wait until your employer sent you on course to update yourself  and be in tandem with latest technology or the digital era that has cropped up in the world of work. “While introducing new technology, employers also have responsibilities to ensure that they give existing workers the opportunity to be very relevant by giving them relevant training on the use of those technology. “So, that does not mean that embracing new technology is going to lead to loss of jobs. Rather, it is for relevant stakeholders, both employers and workers to continue to deepen their capacity building and sustain relevance in the work place.” On the move by employers to deny workers their right to strike and the eradication of violence at work, Timothy said: “Over the years, employers have said they are all out for the eradication or reduction to the barest minimum in the world of work all these evils of violence and harassment because of the implication in the work relationship. “We are working together to ensure that we reduce to the barest minimum the issue of violence and harassment. With regard to the issue of strike, employers recognises that it is the right of workers to go on strike. “However, the emphasis is on due process. Strike action should be the very last resort in industrial dispute resolution. Before it gets to strike, there are other processes for resolution that need to be followed. “What we are saying as employers is that we should explore all these other steps before embarking on strike which is counter productive. It is after the other steps, which include mediation, arbitration and conciliation fails that you resort to strike. Even before you go on strike, there are processes for giving notices. What we are asking for is due process and abiding by the rule of law. “I am sure that employers are not interested in defeating strike. What we should be thinking about as stakeholders in the world of work is how to maintain cordial industrial harmony so that when we have industrial disputes, it is amicably resolved so that it does not led to strike.” He said further that the body would enlighten its members on the their responsibility on the safety of their workers. He said: “What is very fundamental is for us to enlighten employers, the government and workers to what their responsibilities are. This is what NECA has been doing over the years.‘’