The representative of Rivers Southeast Senatorial District in the 7th and 8th Senate, Senator Magnus Abe, has stated that he never nominated a commissioner and two special advisers into the soon-to-be-constituted cabinet of Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. Abe, Thursday in Port Harcourt, through his Spokesperson, Parry Benson, described the claim by an online publication as untrue and misleading. The spokesperson to Abe said: “The publication is the handiwork of detractors, who have orchestrated a well-funded and vicious campaign of calumny against the senator in recent times. “The continued attempt to paint Senator Abe as being in a pact with Governor Wike is part of the childish pranks by those determined to destroy the senator physically and politically, for his principled stand for internal democracy and due process in the All Progressives Congress (APC) family, a just struggle for justice and fairness that captured the imagination of Nigerians across all fault lines. “Nobody needs to destroy Senator Abe or anyone else, before they can achieve their dreams. Indeed, as the Senator has said, there is room enough in the sky for a thousand stars to shine. “If this latest onslaught is about the ministerial nomination, the Senator has stated time without number that it is the prerogative of Mr. President to pick Nigerians who can help him run the country for the benefit of all.” Benson also stated that it was diversionary and unnecessary to continue to smear the reputation of Abe, a former Secretary to the Rivers State Government (SSG), whom he quoted to have said that he remains a committed member of the APC and would remain so. He noted that the senator had always called for peace and harmony, not only in Rivers APC, but in Rivers state. The spokesperson said: “Let us give peace a chance in the APC. No man can truncate the destiny of another. Let us also come together to ensure that there is peace in Rivers State. It is time to move on. “I urge members of the public to disregard the pack of lies against Senator Abe, as part of the sponsored campaigns, like all the others before. This too shall pass.” Benson also stated that people should be free to pursue their legitimate dreams, while insisting that Abe would not be a hindrance to anyone’s advancement.