Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Eko Innovation Centre, Victor Afolabi, has expressed his organisation’s readiness to support ideas that can impact at least 10million people. Afolabi, who made this known in Lagos during ”A conversation on moral leadership”, said the centre is committed to incubating, accelerating, mentoring and funding innovation and technology startups. The event, hosted by the Eko Innovation Centre, also featured participants from Acumen West Africa, an impact investing organisation and the African Venture Philanthropy Alliance, an ecosystem enabler that attracts socially responsible investment to the region. The conversation highlighted each organisation’s vision for a new type of leadership in Nigeria, one that would measure success not based on wealth and fame, but on character, contributions to society, and building a more just world. Sharing his plans to realise this vision through the centre, Afolabi said: “For you to be admitted into the Eko i-Centre, your idea and concept must have ability to touch 10 million people and also have commercial viability and strong social impact among other things.” He explained that the idea behind the EIC was to use innovation and technology in solving the major issues in the Lagos State economy and in other parts of the country. Speaking on the offerings provided by the centre, Afolabi said entrepreneurs admitted can spend a minimum of 18 months to three years, and will be taught tax management, procurement, finance, strategy and administration. “The idea is that when we have companies that come into incubation, their chance of survival is very high because of strong handholding mentorship we are going to be providing,” he said. Afolabi noted that lack of capital was limiting the capabilities of entrepreneurs to develop innovation technologies in order to solve the problems in the country. He urged the state to support and create the enabling environment for start-ups to thrive. “We saw in the Lagos manifesto an agenda to make the state the 21st Century economy. The only way to create a 21st Century economy is to make sure you are creating the enabling environment for businesses and solution to problems that are driven by innovation and technology,” Afolabi said. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said his administration would build innovation and technology centres across the state to address the problem of youth unemployment. Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, said his administration recognised the place of technology as key driver to fast-growing economies. “Technology is the way to go. It is the way of the future and our administration is committed to leveraging technology in delivering the megacity dream. “As a government, we will build innovation and technology centres where we can bring in private capital and investors, get ideas from young people on technology and be able to start creating employment for our youths,” he said. Corroborating him, Acumen founder and Chief Executive Officer, Jacqueline Novogratz, said there was the need for a shift by investors from sole financial focus to considerations for impact and positive benefit to society. “We have seen the yearnings of young entrepreneurs around the world who want to put entrepreneurial tools to work against the world’s toughest problems, that’s what moral leadership is all about. “And we need investors, who are willing to walk that long and challenging path with them, if we are to overcome the great divisions we are experiencing in today’s world,” Novogratz said. African Venture Philanthropy Alliance Chairman, Mr. Olayemi Cardoso, said mentorship is everybody’s responsibility. “We find a way to have sound, clean mentorship whereby we pick the right role models and pair them up with people, who are coming down below, who are relatively more junior and who are looking for direction. “There is a lot of cross sectoral work, multi-stakeholder work that can be done towards helping to groom that concept of mentorship and institutionalising it within our society,” Cardoso said.