Edo politician and educationist, Kenneth Imansuangbon at the weekend described those who think the country would fail as a result of present challenges as liars. He cautioned those perpetrating evil in the country to stop. Barr. Imansuangbon spoke at the graduation/ prize giving ceremony of Pacesetters’ schools in Abuja where the school graduated 66 kindergarten, 95 college and 98 academy students. The politician, who plans to contest next year’s gubernatorial election in Edo state said: “I am happy because there is hope for Nigeria. Those who think Nigeria will fail are big liars. Those who are doing evil you better stop that nonsense. Evil is not who we are. “Nigerians are one of the very best in the world. Our leaders must now seat tight and give us a great future. “The dreams of our nation must be, our nation must be and you will be.” Also, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank, Kingsley Moghalu, said there is hope for a better Nigeria despite the present challenges. Moghalu, who was a former presidential candidate of Young Progressive Party, said the country will rise one day, noting that the younger generation would lead that charge for a better Nigeria. He said all hope was not lost for the country, adding that all Nigerians must begin to organise themselves today to achieve a better country. He said: “We are committed to changing this country to become a better place. Nigeria has been devalued by men and women who have no values. That is why we are where we are today but I can see that you will be the generation that will save this country. “All around us in Nigeria today we have prophets of doom. But I want to tell you there is hope. Nigeria will rise one day and it is your generation that will lead that rise. I want you to know that all hope is not lost but we all must begin to organise ourselves today. “Look at all these brilliant children from all parts of Nigerian and they tell you that Nigeria has no future. It is not true. We have a future. We just have to organise and stop agonising.” Former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Nuhu Ribadu, said the younger generation can make a better nation out of the country. He said he was hopeful that the children of bandits, herdsmen and those who are making things difficult for the country could get education. “They (younger ones) can make a nation out of the country. They can build things. They are clean. “A lot of the things you see today happening in our own country are things that young people have no hand in it and I feel it is not fair what we are doing, we the elders, we the grown up. “Please let these kids be. Give them chance to be what they want to be. Let them love one another and each. Let them remain as Nigerians. “I hope and I pray that the children of the herdsmen will be able to be like these ones. The children of bandits who are terrorizing us will be able to be like these kids and the children of those who are making lives difficult for all of us and they are also innocent can be like these ones.”