The Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce (NACC) recorded N69.7 million revenue in 2018, surpassing the N40.3 million revenue it recorded in 2017. About 69 per cent of the N69.7 million revenue came from members’ due and self-financing, with members’ due generating N19.3 million and self-financing yielding N28.8 million. NACC President, Mr. Toyin Akomolafe, who reeled out the figures during the chamber’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, said in the past three years, the NACC  improved its financial performance. Reviewing the chamber’s activities in 2018, Akomolafe said it engaged in topical issues, using the monthly breakfast meeting as a platform to discuss, interact and network. According to him, the chamber had  eight breakfast meetings, cutting across logistics, telecoms, oil and gas, real estate, and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), among others. He said guest speakers at such meetings were drawn from the Lagos Business School; Nigerian Shippers Council; MainOne Cable; Nigeria Export Processing Zone Authority; Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board; Nextzon Business Services and General Electric. Akomolafe, however, said the most remarkable of these meetings were the launch of the Property, Construction and Infrastructure Business Group of the chamber and the social impact of the American businesses in Nigeria in partnership with the American Business Council. He said as part of the campaign for  capacity building, training were held for members and non-members, which covered various businesses, leadership and marketing skills. According to him, the past year witnessed a number of trainings as an improvement from 2017. “We shall continue to improve on our training offerings through partnership with experienced training facilitators in meeting the skills gap in the marketplace,” Akomolafe said. He also said the chamber led its trade mission to Washington DC. The mission, the president said, featured business to business interaction with the Nigerians in Diaspora on business opportunities, meetings with United States’African Development Foundation and Centre for International Private Enterprises. Akomolafe added that the delegates also participated in the Africa Trade and Investment Global Summit (ATIGS), pointing out that there was also an inward trade mission to the Chamber in May, with five companies from the US.