Jude Nwauzor is the Head of Corporate Communications, AMCON. In this interview with Charles Okonji, he enumerated some of the diff iculties the Coporation faces with debt recovery. Excerpts: Why is it becoming difficult for AMCON to recover its N5trn debt? In a decent society, it is doable, it is recoverable, but Nigeria is a peculiar country. Nigeria is not the only country that have set up an Asset Management Coporation (AMC), but what works in other countries don’t work in Nigeria. It is a borrowed model that worked in other countries, and it has worked well. It was used in Malaysia to recover debts, it was used in Ireland, and America set up its own AMC and it also worked and they all have life span of 10 years to be able to do recoveries. Our own Asset Management Coporation of Nigeria (AMCON) was set up after the crash of the Nigeria economy in 2010. The government set it up to recover bad debts, which made us to buy over the bad debts from the bank, recapitalized the banks so that they can go into their normal business of lending while we go out to recover the money. We have been doing our best; this reminds me of the Minister’s speech before she left office which states that AMCON recovered one trillion naira (N1trn.) so far, and still counting. We have several assets that are for sale, which have not been disposed due to certain hitches confronting us. Our MD has often said that AMCON has some limitations as many of our clients have engaged us in different courts. So, because we have many court litigations, we are unable to sell any of these assets. Again, if we don’t have the case decided in our favoure, we cannot sell any of th assets. How many cases do you have pending in the court? As at this moment, we have over 3000 cases in court and we are still counting. On the daily bases, we engage on humongous activities concerning these cases from end to end. This is because we have facts, and we have evidence, but the question is; did they borrow this money? The answer is yes, did they pay back this money? No, did they default? Yes. Then, we go after them. That was why I said earlier that in a decent society, the lawyer would ask the client, did you borrow this money, and he will say yes my Lord, and the Judge would say; go and pay. Then, if you do not have the money to pay, you have to forfeit the assets, which AMCON can convert as money.  But you that in Nigeria, the legal tussle take different dimension. You can have a case run in court for 10 years, over the same case and the asset you have taken over would be depreciating and when you win the case, the asset would no longer be in shape. Could this problem be attributed to policies and act that set up AMCON? Late 2018, the MD of AMCON, Ahmed Lawanco said that this negotiation and promises are not working, so that we can change the mode of operation to process to enforcement mode. So, we are doing more enforcement, which is why you see reports that AMCON took over this and that. So, we are doing all it takes to recover the money. How do you manage the recovered money? Nigerians think that this money that is recovered is for AMCON, it is not. It belongs to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, because it was the tax payers money that was used to set up AMCON and to buy up those assets. So the money that we are recovering is for Nigeria’s treasury. Any money we recover goes to the CBN straight. I have always told Nigerians that AMCON’s MD does not have access to recovered money. No matter the amount, be it one million, be it one billion, the money is paid straight to the country’s treasury, which is for the development of all Nigerians and our infrastructure. The money we are talking about is 60% of 2019 budget. So, if we are to recover the N5trn that we are talking of, the rail, the education, and the decapitated roads would all be fixed because five trillion naira is a lot of money. It can do wonders in the country if we treat AMCON the way it supposed to be treated and implemented. The MD has been making efforts in engaging the Judiciary, the National Assembly and the Presidency to reverse this ugly trend. Recently, we met with the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo, and he noted that very soon, the government would stop doing business with the people that owe AMCON. Who are these people (debtors)? They are Nigerians, they are very influential people, and they are the people we refer to as timber and caliber. They are captains of industries.  The bottom line is that these people are heavily indebted, living fictitious live, flying on private jets and so on. Summarily, they are living a borrowed life. Was the act that set up AMCON faulty or you are pushing for more authority to be able to prosecute debtors in shorter period? That was why I said that we are engaging the National Assembly. As you know, the 9th Assembly is yet to attending to the matters of amendment of bills/acts. The act was set up in 2010, and it was amended in 2015. But because of the new challenges that we are experiencing now, the management has gone back to NASS because of other areas that we need to sharpen and strengthened to be able to recover debts timely. So, it is under consideration.