Ohanaeze Ndigbo has commiserated with Pa Reuben Fasoranti and the entire Yorubas on the murder of Mrs Funke Olukunri. In a statement by the President-General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Chief Nnia Nwodo, the group warned that this latest murder was capable of throwing our country into uncontrollable break down of law and order. The organization faulted the “hasty conclusion by the Federal Government that she was killed by armed robbers and not suspected herdsmen who are known to have laid siege on all parts of the country perpetrating  acts of banditry and killings.”The group said the incident has exacerbated the already tense situation. The statement reads: “News reached Ohanaeze Ndigbo yesterday of the heartless murder of the daughter of Pa Reuben Fasoranti, Mrs Funke Olukunri, on her way from Ekiti to Lagos by supected Fulani Herdsmen. We offer Chief Fasoranti and the entire Yorubas the heartfelt sympathies of Ndigbo. The continuous  rampaging, plunder, rape, kidnapping and murder of innocent Nigerians by armed  Fulani herdsmen has climbed to a most worrisome crescendo. The inability of our Security Forces to disarm and prosecute these criminals gives credibility to a growing story of collusion. Recently, the British High Commission in an advisory to British citizens in Nigeria declared twenty four of our states unsafe. In the midst of these killings, their parent organisation has the effrontery to give ultimatums to the President of Nigeria to rescind his unpopular suspension, instead of cancelation of his RUGA development policy. Such inciting, provocative and treasonable outbursts has only been greeted by an advise that they should respect the Presidency and an unrelenting resolve to force Nigerians to accommodate such murderers in their homes under a policy that violates our constitution and all laws and court judgments relating to land Use Administration. Ohanaeze Ndigbo warns that this latest murder is capable of throwing our country into  uncontrollable break down of law and order. The hasty conclusion by the Federal Government that she was killed by armed robbers and not the suspected herdsmen who are known to have laid siege on all parts of the country perpetrating  acts of banditry and killings further excabates  the already tense situation. We call on eminent leaders of this nation in spite of their political persuasion to come together in an urgent National Security Conference to discuss measures that will arrest the extant drift to lawlessness.”