Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Elder Godsday Orubebe has accused Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of deliberately marginalising some sections of the state in allocation of projects. Elder Orubebe, said in a statement in Abuja, he would soon make public on-going evaluations of the works done by Delta State government in the last 50 months. He said he was not surprised by criticisms trailing his earlier remarks on his position that the Governor sidelined his ethnic Ijaw people in the scheme of things in the state. He declared no one can crucify him on his avowed stance on democracy and good governance as far Delta state is concerned. According to Orubebe: “In Nigeria most of the times the people you want to fight and protect, unfortunately are gullible in most of the cases. Illiteracy and poverty are largely responsible for this challenge. “I made a statement to the people of Delta State with particular reference to the Ijaw people about physical and human development. I also knew that some few uneducated and ill informed Ijaw people were going to attack me as sycophants and as expected, I have been proved right. “Those reactions will not stop me from fighting for the majority of the Ijaw people and Delta people in general. “I want Gov Okowa to tell the people of Delta State how he spent billions of naira with particular reference to each ethnic community in Delta State. “I have already engaged the services of some consultants to value the works he has done in Delta State in the last 50 months. I am sure that Deltans will be pleased to know the outcome of this verification exercise. “Very soon we shall also come out to tell the people of Delta State about ”Okowa before he became governor, Okowa after 50 months as a person and as a government.” Recently Orubebe attacked his party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, saying it is a party dominated by ungrateful elements. He also alleged marginalisation of the Ijaws in Delta State by the state governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa.