The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has granted 412 foreign-trained Nigerian doctors the nod to practice medicine. The breakdown shows 407 medical doctors and five dentists. 893 foreign-trained medical and dental students appeared for the examination while the 412 inducted were successful. The overall percentage pass is 46 percent. The doctors, who had to undergo another training and examination on returning to the country, were inducted on Thursday. Chairman of the council, Prof. Abba Hassan, urged the Federal Government to domicile the central internship fund in the council. This, he said, is to enable the council centralise internship project this year. Hassan also appealed to state governments to upgrade at least three hospitals to standard suitable for internship and to also recruit the required number of consultants to supervise them. This, he said, will create enough spaces for internship every year. Hassan also emphasised the need for parents to be cautious as to which countries to send their children for training, while noting that there are ongoing efforts to increase carrying capacities of the existing medical schools in the country. His summation may not be unconnected to the rate of failure in the examinations organised for the foreign students, which recorded 46 percent pass rate. He explained: “Some of the candidates are very good as reflected by the performance in the assessment exam.’’ To the new doctors, he charged them to be dedicated and humble in practice. Speaking before the administration of pledge by the inductees, the Registrar of the Council, Dr Tanudeen Sanusi, warned against acts that are contrary to the code of ethics of the profession. While noting the council frowns against professional misconducts, Sanusi noted if a doctor is found to be a treat to medical practice and public health in the cause of investigation such doctor may be suspended from practicing. “Doctors shoulder a lot of responsibilities and the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria will not tolerate ethical misconduct,” he added Already 120 practicing doctors are under investigations on alleged professional misconducts while 60 are awaiting trial at the MDCN Tribunal. Sanusi also revealed the council’s code of ethics is under review; adding also that the review of the council Act is in process.