President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday led governors and other eminent personalities in congratulating veteran journalist and former Ogun State Governor Olusegun Osoba on his 80th birthday. The birthday was beautifully heralded last Monday in Lagos with the launch of Osoba’s memoir, “Battlelines: Adventures in Journalism and Politics”. Buhari felicitated with family, friends, professional colleagues and political associates of the elder statesman and loyal All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart. Also on Sunday, Governors Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta) separately described Osoba as a leader with great accomplishment in his journalism profession and as an administrator. The Ogun State APC extolled his virtues, describing him as “an epitome of integrity and service”. A former member of the House of Representatives, Kunle Adeyemi, called the former governor a “die-hard progressive and staunch believer in grassroots development”. Buhari, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said Osoba has successfully translated words into action by fully participating in politics and governance, and leaving a legacy of service as a governor of his state in two republics – 1992-1993 and 1999-2003. The President hailed Osoba’s unwavering commitment to building strong institutions that would encourage participatory democracy and development in the country. He noted that their many conversations, including the visit to the State House last week, had always centered on Nigeria and her people, with wise and insightful counsels on engendering a better country. “President Buhari prayed that the almighty God will grant the former governor longer life, good health and strength to continue serving the country he loves so much, and bless his family,” the statement said. Oyetola, in a letter to the APC leader, also noted Osoba’s “contributions to the development of the country and service to humanity over the years” According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS) Mr. Adeniyi Adesina, the governor said: “Your attainment of the octogenarian rank attests to the fact that you have enjoyed tremendous divine grace and blessings from the Almighty God. “You have distinguished yourself in all your endeavours as a journalist, political leader, governor, administrator and elder statesman. “Your impact as a two-time Ogun State Governor is etched on the minds of citizens and residents of the state. No wonder you were bestowed with important chieftaincy titles in acknowledgement of your performance by the key traditional rulers in the state. “As you look forward to your next birthday, I, on behalf of my family, the government and people of Osun State, share in your celebration and pray that the Almighty God will continue to protect you and grant you good health and longer life.” To Abiodun, “Chief Osoba will be remembered for his resilience, tenacity of purpose and political brinkmanship that has honour”. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary Kunle Somorin, Abiodun said: “The title ‘statesmen’ is not an honorific ascribed or acclaimed by default of social status. It is a journey through the path of excellence, sacrifice, selflessness and dedication to the destination of honour and fulfillment. “You have journeyed that path for eight decades as a thoroughbred reporter, politician and administrator.” He said as a political son of Osoba, he has learnt a lot from the octogenarian, saying: “We are so very proud of the heritage you bequeath to us” Okowa described Osoba as an “accomplished patriot and role model to modern day journalists in Nigeria”. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Charles Aniagwu, in Asaba, noted that Osoba did not only excel in journalism, but also in politics, culminating in his election as Ogun State governor on two different occasions. The governor lauded the celebrant for his exclusive reports that shook the nation in his heydays in the journalism profession, adding: “Chief Osoba is a man of “courage and resilience”, whose selflessness is worthy of emulation by the younger generation of journalists and politicians. The Ogun State APC extolled his virtues, describing him as “an epitome of integrity and service.” The Ogun APC, in a statement on Sunday by its Publicity Secretary, Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, remarked that it acknowledged the ex-governor’s contributions to the overall growth of Nigeria and the state. The party added that Osoba is a pillar the party rested on when it was abandoned and also confronted by the party’s biggest beneficiary in the last eight years. The party stated:  “As you celebrate your  80th birthday today sir, we acknowledge and appreciate your contributions to the overall development of Nigeria, especially Ogun State. As a leader, you have demonstrated uncommon passion for mentoring and actualisation of common goals for the benefit of the greater majority. “Yours is a commendable and recommendable model. On behalf of the leadership and entire members of the ruling APC in Ogun State, we wish you many more years in good health and in service to humanity.” Adeyemi, who represented Ifo/Ewekoro Federal Constituency between 2011 and 2015 at the National Assembly, said Osoba’s background in journalism contributed immensely to his penchant for progressive politics, which culminated in the pursuance of grassroots development while he governed Ogun.