The probability that men contributes significantly to infertility is very high, a fertility expert, Dr. Abayomi Ajayi, Obstetrician/Gynaecologist has said. Ajayi, who is the Managing Director, Nordica Fertility Centre, said there is no pinpoint factor that can blamed for male factor infertility but lots points to lifestyle factor, which he said is within ones control. Ajayi, who spoke to our correspondent in Abuja on the needs for men to maintain a healthy lifestyle to check the rising phenomenon, stressed gone were the days infertility is placed at the door steps of women. According to him: “The myth about infertility been a problem of the women has already been broken. May be some twenty five years ago, I have seen a patient, a man hold on to a doctor’s collar and said, you I am not fertile and like you said it was believed that infertility is a woman’s problem but now even the populace are getting aware now that men can have problems. And we know scientifically that men contribute equally to infertility with women. “But the figure that we are even seen now shows that men might contributing more to infertility than women. We did a recent study in my centre that we saw about twelve per cent of men that come to our centre don’t have sperms at all. ”Not that they have low sperm count but they don’t have sperms at all. So we did another study which we compared sperm count in 2003 to 2013 and we saw that there was a drop of about thirty percent.” Though he stressed that the findings of the centre can not be said to be true representation, but is is a pointer of the current global reality. “Why we can’t really shout about it is that these are not community based studies and so there will be some skewed because it is those that come to fertility clinic that we are looking at so we can say that is what is obtainable in the society but that is not only in Nigeria, it is a global picture that male infertility is becoming more rampant. There is an article that somebody wrote that said EMB might soon become extinct because sperm count seems to be dropping. “So it is not a Nigeria thing it is a global fear that men are contributing significantly to infertility,” he stressed. On the possible cause, he said: “But there is no singular factor that we can point at but some many factor has been incriminated. Initially, there was a believe that the problems starts from when the boy is in the mother womb and now everything has shifted to the environment that is causing the problem. “There is more environmental factors than you are been born with male infertility and some of the factors incriminated are some you cannot even do with out including toothpaste. “So many things have been looked at that could coy tribute to male infertility, of course there some studies which shown that men who works in gas stations (petrol attendance) over a long period of time. “So your vocation is also one thing that might be incriminated. Some say may be even the global warming stuff . “The truth about it is that we cannot pinpoint a particular thing but the thing we are saying now because these are factors that are within our control, the others don’t seems to be within our control the lifestyle factors and that is why now we are talking a lot about lifestyle because that is within what we can control. You can control your weight as much as possible, it can be done. “You can control what you eat, control that you don’t drink excessively, you can control that you don’t smoke, you can control that you don’t abuse drugs. “Lifestyle things are the things that we think can contribute to male factor infertility that are within our control and those are the things we are laying a lot of emphasis on.” He also encouraged men, especially the expectant married ones so that they can seek help where necessary and also on time.