THE Transmission Company of Nigeria’s (TCN’s)  grid upgrade project is expected to recover between 2,000 megawatt (Mw) and  3,000Mw. TCN’s Managing Director, Usman Mohammmed, who spoke in Abuja, said the transmission company is re-conducting the line from kaduna to Zaria through Funtua and there on to Gusau, adding that it is also re-conducting the line from Birnin-Kebbi to Sokoto. The line from Aba to Itu, Kumboso to Nagujei, are also being re-conducted with high capacity wires. Mohammed said: “By doing that, we are going to recover between 2,000Mw and 3,000Mw, which means that automatically the grid will shift from 10,000Mw wire belt.” Mohammmed said the grid stabilization is one of the measures being adopted to avoid system collapse, adding that the TCN sought the approval of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) for the procurement of 260Mw spinning reserve to stabilise the grid. Although TCN has sought the approval since December 2018, he said, the commission is yet to grant it. He said: “The next thing I want to tell you is the issue of spinning reserve. We have successfully procured 260Mw spinning reserve. Now 260Mw of spinning reserve is not adequate with the average generation of 4,000mw. It is supposed to be 10 per cent, which is about 400Mw. “When we advertised for spinning reserve, generators responded and what we found is that it is not every generator that has the capacity to procure spinning reserve. “A generator that cannot respond quickly cannot provide spinning reserve. What we can procure is 260Mw and it not enough, but it is good enough to stabilise the grid. “We should make the grid better than what it used to be than now. We forwarded that spinning reserve to NERC in December 2018 but as at today, we have not yet got approval. “Even today, we met with NERC and we are still pressing to get the spinning reserve. Once we get the spinning reserve, we will be able to further stabilize the grid as it is expected.” Mohammed also said the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) on May 5 attained the West African Pool Standard of 49.8 and 50.2Hz at 66 per cent of the time, saying this is the first time that the nation’s power sector is achieving the feat. Despite the accomplishment, the TCN chief said from May 6, till now, the firm has been struggling to sustain a frequency control of 49.8 and 50.2Hz. He noted that owing to poor network, distribution starts collapsing once it starts raining and it makes the management of frequency difficult. Mohammed said: “We achieve 49.5 and 60.5Hz to November 2018.