The deaths of more than 10 people in Komkom community in Oyibo Local Government Area of Rivers State helps in possibly affirming the line of thought that crude oil is more of a curse than blessing to Nigeria. Besides the over-dependence on oil and the abandonment of some hitherto sources of revenue, the economic, political and social effects of a poorly run oil industry has been so evident in the socio-economic situation of the country in the past decades. This recent explosion was just one in a list of many. The popular Jesse explosion on October 18, 1998, killed more than 1,000 Nigerians and many are still dying of the effects. The fire following the pipeline explosion burnt for more than a week. On May 15, 2008, another pipeline explosion happened in Ijegun-Egba in Lagos State. Dozens of lives and properties were lost. In October 2018, there was another explosion at the Aba depot of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, (NNPC). In March, this year, there was an explosion in Nembe Kingdom in Bayelsa State in which more than 50 people allegedly died. The facility belonged to the Aiteo Group that carries oil to the Bonny export terminal. In addition to the recorded pipeline explosions, thousands of lives have been lost and properties running into billions also lost due to random fuel tanker explosions on the highways and even inside residential communities. However, in all these tragic human and material losses, there seems to be no definite policy direction to stem these national tragedies. Nigeria is the ninth largest producer of oil. However, today, the country is the poverty capital of the world due to a myriad of decades of mismanagement of not just the oil sector but a somewhat dysfunctional system where accountability is not taken seriously and there seems to be no strict adherence to the laws of the land. The Jesse tragedy raised so many questions that have remained unanswered and unresolved despite the heavy casualties. Post-tragedy reports were not conclusive about the causative factors. There were allegations that scavengers ruptured the pipelines that were already rusty due to  lack of maintenance, and the explosion was therefore a tragedy waiting to happen. That NNPC had to invite a United States fire-fighting company to help extinguish the fire is telling. While we believe that accidents are facts of life, we also believe that successive governments in Nigeria have not taken good care of the processes of production and distribution of oil products. There are ways other oil-producing countries operate that we are neglecting. Safety is seemingly not a priority for the government and operators, which accounts for all the varied tales that trail most explosions. The role of government must be beyond taking the dollars from oil sales. The thousands that died in all those explosions were not shown the state protection and compensations they deserved. In a country without a valid census, the numbers of the dead are always debatable as efforts are made to tone down the figures. There has hardly been a conclusive prosecution of those whose negligence caused the deaths. The many cases of deaths in these explosions are often beyond the control of the victims as many were often in their houses or just passing by. In other instances where some died scooping fuel from broken pipelines, it was usually out of poverty and ignorance. Even when they know the dangers, the cascading impunity from those in authority often infects the grassroots. The lack of effective government actions in alleviating poverty often makes the people see such loose chances of scooping fuel as their chance to take their own share of the national wealth. The environmental and economic degradation caused by the oil industry and affiliate companies must be addressed urgently by the government.  The victims of oil pipeline and tanker explosions are citizens whose contributions to development will outlive the use of oil. We recommend a total overhaul of the oil industry operations to match global best practices that will give lives the requisite value that spurs patriotism and economic productivity. Merely ordering a probe cannot be enough; this is a road well-traveled.