Henry Olofin, a co-founder of Africanslink and CEO of MEIBACH Nigeria, has suggested practical solutions to address the recurring issue of building collapse. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent, he said Nigeria can overcome the challenge of building collapse and develop buildings that can last for generations. Olofin, an entrepreneur who set up Afriscanlink together with a Ghanaian partner, said the company has used its clout to bring investors and technology to both Nigeria and Ghana with partners in 20 African countries and still counting. Specifically, he said, Danish Concrete Hardener is one of the companies that produces concrete hardener which helps with concrete construction either new or old construction. “It is especially useful for heavy floors like highway, church floors, government building floors, factory floors, school floors, hotel floors and other that have heavy traffic. This product prevents wear and tear, acid, and water, salt on the wall or floor.  It is a fantastic product that Nigeria deserves to have.” Expatiating, he said, “It is a unique product. It is not a product that you mix inside the concrete.  It is a product that you will apply on the concrete floor or wall. It is a post-curing treatment for the floors and the walls. You can use it in new constructions. One of the major advantages is that when you do new floors like supermarket floors and the likes, it will take sometime for it to be hard enough for use. It typically takes about 21 days for the floor to harden but with this product you can shorten that period for eight days. After eight days, your floor is ready for use and it would as solid as day one in the next 30 to 50 years.  If you want a quality floor and a quality wall, you will need this product.” Pressed further, he said, “The truth is that quality costs money because it takes good material to make good products. It takes good materials to make good buildings but we are trying as much as possible to make the cost affordable. When the ultimate goal is achieved, that is of having a factory here in Nigeria that is when I will have won a jackpot; jackpot, not in terms of money but in terms of having my wish come through. Nigeria is full of unemployed people. This is my own little contribution to help get some people off the street.” 