Jagagba’, an award-winning play by Beeta Playwrights Competition, is billed to hold on July 19, July 20 and July 21, 2019, respectively, at the Agip Recital Hall, MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. Starring Kunle Coker, Mawuyon Ogun, Bamike Olawunmi “Bam Bam”, Ese Lami George, Olarotimi Fakunle, Eden Attai and Kelvinmary Ndukwe, ‘Jagagba’ captures the conflict of a traditional society with interplays of political metaphors and social contradictions. The play explores the quandary familial ties, the complexity of policy iteration and the perceived gap between evolving cultures including relevant social issues such as the societal value of women, female inclusion, security, and co-existence. The play is an outcome of the Beeta Playwrights Competition national call-outs for play entries in August 2018. After five weeks and 348 entries received from 30 states, a panel of six judges, led by the former Director General of the National Theatre, Prof. Ahmed Yerima, selected 10 finalists. All 10 finalists attended a one-day playwriting workshop by Yerima, which was followed by the grand finale with Abdul-Qudus Ibrahim’s play, ‘Jagagba’, emerging the winner. After a one million naira prize and a publishing deal, Abdul-Qudus’ play is set to hit the stage. Abdul-Qudus Ibrahim is a native of Kogi State with a Bachelor’s degree in Banking and Finance from Covenant University. “I can’t believe this is happening for me,” said an excited Abdul-Qudus. This is the second edition of the Beeta Playwright Competition (BPC) owned by Bikiya-Graham Douglas’s Beeta Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF). Bikiya, who is also the producer of the play, created the foundation based on her love for the performing arts and as an avenue to create opportunities for young people to develop their talent and tell original Nigerian stories. “I’m so pleased I get to produce this amazing play by @qudusib the cast and crew have been so generous with their talent, time and I’m humbled by their commitment and sacrifice, #JAGAGBA is coming,” says Bikiya