The Landwey Investment Limited has instituted a financial credit service for its estate subscribers. It is accessible at a single digit interest rate within 48 hours, its Chief Executive Officer, Olawale Ayilara, has said. Ayilara, who spoke at a press conference  in Lagos, said in the firm’s continued quest to ensure that clients maintain their financial stability and see their investments reach fruition, it created this unique, customer-centric solution that furnishes the most convenient, and easy access loan facility for its subscribers. According to him, WeyMoney subscribers can access funding that helps them stay financially afloat, take care of business that cannot wait, and access loan facility in record time. He said: “The firm had discovered that many of our clients are business owners who are finding it hard to get quick loans from banks and they go through the route of low chart of 30 to 40 per cent interest rate in banks. We have a robust client base and we believe that we can add value to our clients. “Single  digit interest is extremely difficult to get in banks and we feel that our clients can leverage on the property they have with us and give them a single digit interest loan using their property that they have with us as the collateral. We have test run and the feedback has been awesome. “The WeyMoney Offering, variable rate loan, zero deposit required, loan terms up to 1 year, credit up to 70 per cent  of your property’s current market value, conditional pre-approval available, interest residual in single digit, quick payout and zero fees for early loan repayment. “Landwey is a real estate company that is new in the market but we are one of the biggest real estate firms in Nigeria. We are more into the blue ocean real estate and we have 24,000 realtors who are currently marketing our brand in Nigeria and abroad. “We are a development company. We have locations in Lagos, majority of them are on the Island. Lagos Island is like the new hub for the new generation real estate and the economy is viable. We provide infrastructure such as access roads and sell in plots so that our client can come and build. We are a forerunner in the market share. “The opportunity we are offering is more of a value-added service and not transactional. The interest rate is small so that we can benchmark our investment. We believe that if our clients make more money, they will come back.”