Leading online shopping firm, Jumia, has donated books approved by the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) for junior secondary school curricular to Agidingbi Junior Grammar School, Ikeja. It said it was part of activities to celebrate its seventh anniversary in the country. The donation held at the company’s Ikeja warehouse; two teachers and about 20 student representatives were on hand to receive the materials. Jumia also organised a career talk for the student representatives on the opportunities within the e-commerce landscape and what they could do to start and grow a career in the sector. Jumia Nigeria’s Public Relations and Communications Manager, Olukayode Kolawole, said the gesture, which aligns with the company’s education-focused corporate social responsibility (CSR) project, was aimed at increasing access to quality educational materials and promoting good reading culture among secondary school pupils in the country. He said: “Education is an integral part of our corporate social responsibility programmes at Jumia Nigeria. We remain focused on our mission to use technology to improve the quality of everyday lives in the country, and by extension Africa. Increasing access to quality educational materials for young secondary school students who are the leaders of tomorrow aligns with our mission. We continue to build the next future tech leaders, and at the heart of this endeavour lies the need to equip these future leaders with the right information and guidance on how to build a career in the fledgling Nigerian e-commerce industry.” Also, Jumia Nigeria Human Resources Director, Dele Awolala, said the anniversary was aimed at appreciating its host community over the years. He said: “Our local community remains our biggest host, for allowing our business and employees to thrive within a peaceful environment. Therefore, we will continue to foster, nurture, grow and nourish this special relationship through our various development and empowerment programmes targeted at different stakeholders within the community. Agidingbi Junior Grammar School is one of the first beneficiaries of our education-focused CSR initiative, and we will continue to expand our outreach to many more schools in the future.” The Principal of Agidingbi Junior Grammar School, Mr. O. A. Ojo, commended Jumia for the gesture which he said is focused on increasing access to quality education and complementing the state government’s effort in ensuring that all public schools within the state are equipped with good reading and writing materials. “This gesture will have a lasting impression on our current students and many more after them. Jumia’s name will remain indelible in our hearts and the hearts of our students. We thank the management of Jumia Nigeria for this thoughtful initiative,” he said.