South African Reserve Bank (SARB) Governor Lesetja Kganyago has said the country’s monthly inflation outcomes have stayed around the mid-point of the inflation target range, with food and services price inflation still subdued. He spoke when he released the bank’s latest decision on its benchmark repo rate, adding that “the medium term inflation outlook is unchanged”. Kganyago said: “Market expectations of the extent of future central bank actions appear high, creating the risk of significant market volatility should these not materialise. “The inflation forecast generated by the SARB’s Quarterly Projection Model (QPM) is for headline inflation to average 4.4 per cent in 2019 (down from 4.5 per cent). The projections for 2020 and 2021 remain unchanged at 5.1 per cent and 4.6 per cent, respectively.” Headline CPI inflation, he said, is expected to peak at 5.4 per cent in the first quarter of 2020 and settle at 4.5 per cent in the last two quarters of 2021. “The SARB now expects GDP growth for 2019 to average 0.6 per cent (down from 1.0 per cent in May). The forecast for 2020 and 2021 is unchanged at 1.8 per cent and 2.0 per cent respectively. “Domestic growth prospects and fiscal rate risks high among investor concerns. Continued low business confidence remains a concern for the MPC. “While the rand has benefited from improved sentiment towards riskier assets, it underperformed its emerging market peers due to idiosyncratic factors. “The MPC welcomes the continued downward trend in recent inflation outcomes and the moderation in inflation expectations of about one percentage point since 2016.” “The overall risks to the inflation outlook are assessed to be largely balanced. Demand side pressures are subdued, wages and rental prices are expected to increase at moderate rates and global inflation should remain low,” he said. According to him, domestically, the financing needs of State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) could place further upward pressure on the currency and long-term market interest rates for all borrowers. Food, electricity and water prices also remain important risks to the inflation outlook. “Against this backdrop, the MPC unanimously decided to reduce the repurchase rate by 25 basis points to 6.5 per cent per annum with effect from July 19, 2019,” the reserve bank chief said.