Eleven fertiliser blending plants with a capacity of 2.1 million metric tonnes (Mt) have been revived across the country,  Vice President (VP) Yemi Osinbajo, has said. Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, made this known in a statement in Abuja. He said the vice president spoke at the Fourth National Discourse on Food Security of the Companion at the University of Lagos. The VP said self-sufficiency in food production remained a major pillar of the economic policy of the President Muhammadu  Buhari administration. According to Osinbajo, President Buhari has set a clear direction with his declaration that Nigerians must produce what they eat and consume what they produce. The VP said to improve local blending capacity, a fertiliser programme had been launched in collaboration with Morocco. He said the Federal Government  backed the programme with substantial budgetary allocation to agriculture from N8.8 billion in 2015 to N46.2 billion in 2016; and N103.8 billion last year. Osinbajo said agriculture grew by 14.27 per cent last year. He said through the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, which the president launched in Kebbi in November 2015, credit was given to smallholder farmers, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and 13 participating banks. His words: “So far, credit totalling N120.6 billion has been given to 720,000 smallholder farms cultivating 12 commodities, including rice, wheat, cotton, soya beans, cassava, poultry and groundnuts, across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The Anchor Borrowers Programme is now digitised, with all farmlands’ GPRS mapped, biometric data of farmers captured, electronic cards issued and specific inputs are required. This has enhanced traceability and enhanced productivity and yield. “Today, we have 11 Fertiliser blending plants with a capacity of 2.1 million; fertiliser price has since dropped from N13, 000 per 50kg to N5, 500. “Today, but for a few drawbacks, we are confidently approaching self-sufficiency in rice production; that is from importing $5 million of rice daily.’’ According to Osinbajo, official imports were down to two per cent, even as the Federal Government opened up opportunities for greater entrepreneurial activity in the sector, as there was far greater investment in value adding services in the value chain. He said the Federal Government, in partnership with Brazil, would facilitate the financing of the provision of machinery, equipment, input and services. “At the top of the mechanisation chain are six assembly plants to be activated and spread across the six geo-political zones. “The assembly plants will undertake the assembly of tractors and processing equipment, as well as light manufacturing of parts, which will be sent out to the service centres closer to the farmers across the length and breadth of Nigeria. “The first assembly plant, among a total of six to operate, to assemble tractors and implements, will be located in Bauchi State in an already existing facility owned by a private operator,” Osinbajo said. He said the Federal Government projected that almost 5,000 tractors would be assembled in Nigeria every year. The VP said with a substantial percentage of the world’s arable land and over half of that uncultivated, it was becoming clearer that Africa and Nigeria had the potential to become major food baskets in the world. According to him, China’s demand alone has 27 per cent of the world’s population, but only seven per cent of the world’s arable land for agriculture. “China needs two million tonnes of hybrid Soya beans per annum for livestock feed and vegetable oil; we have not met that demand. “Africa as a whole has also not been able to meet China’s demand for cocoa. How about goat meat? 120,000 carcasses of goat meat are required weekly in different Arab countries. There is still a major gap in supply here as well,” he said.