The Chinese Government has launched a group visa programme for Nigerians who wish to travel as a team for business or tourism. The scheme, which will kick off on August 1, will enable Nigerians numbering at least five persons in a group, to apply for and obtain a group visa. But the travellers can only apply for the visa through an international travel agency, Bravo International Tour Service of Beijing, which was granted the exclusive rights to process the group visa. Bravo International Tour Service’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Daniel Yang, stated this in Lagos at the weekend while signing a deal with its Nigerian partner, 1860 Travels. Yang said the deal with 1860 Travels would increase cultural communications between China and Nigeria through a new product or brand called ‘Tours2China’. “We are now the only Chinese company that can process the group visa, not the business visa, the group visa. We can bring Nigerians to China through the group visa. In other words, people seeking a Chinese group visa have to apply through us. “The group visa requires a minimum of five persons. Four persons cannot obtain a group visa, they must be at least five persons,” he added. Yang explained that the partnership with 1860 Travels will produce three travel itineraries, packages to different Chinese cities to tour, trade, shop “at cheaper rates.” Bravo International Tour Service Director, David Yang, urged travellers not to abuse of the opportunity by eloping in China, otherwise the Chinese government could shut down the programme. 1860 Travels Ltd Managing Director, Mr Olusina Daodu, assured that measures are in place to make the product succeed and avoid its abuse. Daodu said: “Before now, what we were used to in this market was business travel but the times are changing with the introduction of this product into the Nigerian market. “Nigerians will now be able to travel with group tourist visa. If you want to go on leisure, it affords you the opportunity and if you also want to do a little bit of business, it also affords you the opportunity. “That is why the itineraries put together are structured in a way that it allows you do your business and also have some leisure time while you are there.”