The Chairman of Lagos Island Local Government Area (LGA), Tijani Olutoyose Olushi, on Sunday assured protesting traders at Gorodom Market, Ebute-Ero, that their shops would not be demolished. Olushi said any information that it was planning to redevelop stores and shops at Mogbonjubola Plaza, Gorodom was false. The council, he explained, has no deal with any contractor or developer to demolish and rebuild any structure in the market. Olushi spoke through his Chief of Staff, Mr. Yusuf Olatunji Olayigbade, following a rumour that Block MP/BC section of the market would be demolished yesterday, and reconstructed. The traders and a rights group, Human Rights Monitoring Agenda (HURMA), protested alleged claims by a contractor who claimed to have received the LGA’s approval to demolish and reconstruct the market. Led by HURMA Coordinator, Comrade Isiak Olaitan Buna, the traders petitioned the council to prevent any such exercise. The petition claimed that a similar event occurred in 2005, “when some contractors stormed the market and demolished the entire structure without prior quit notice, to destroy a means of livelihood of many Lagosians. “It is therefore our request to your honourable office to rise to the plight of the people of Ebute-Ero Market to protect their market from being attacked, except through a normal process of eviction as legally permissible via proper service m the occupiers.” But Olatunji, who is also the Council’s Officer-In-Charge of Works and Housing, said: “Mogbonjubola Plaza was given to a contractor in 2004 and the contractor has a duration of 20 years. The contractor came down to the local government that he wanted to renew. We asked him on what basis? We needed to hear from the traders. “It was in view of that, that the executive chairman directed me, that I should alert all the traders that they should all remain in their shops, that’s the position of the local government now. “I’m telling you now that at the local government level, the particular building was given to the traders in Mogbonjubola, they should remain in their shops as there is no plan to demolish and rebuild it now”.