he African Development Bank (AfDB) has said the 400-bed Afe Babalola University Multi-System Hospital (ABUMSH) in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, is the solution to Nigerians’ appetite for medical tourism abroad. The continental bank described Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) as a world-class institution which provides effective health care delivery on virtually all fields of medicine. It stressed that the health facility is on the same pedestal with John Hopkins and other first-class hospitals in Europe, Asia and America. AfDB’s Senior Director for Nigeria’s Country Department, Mr. Ebrima Faal, spoke at the weekend at ABUAD during a visit to the university’s founder, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN). Faal said Babalola had changed the face of the country’s medical sector, adding that the problem of medical tourism abroad was over with the existence of ABUAD’s supersonic multi-system health facility. The AfDB senior director noted that with the existence of ABUMSH, Nigerians can now be treated in Nigeria with the latest medical equipment at the hospital. During a visit to the university in 2017, AfDB’s President, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, agreed to the institution’s request for the granting of $40 million loan for more infrastructure development. Faal added that the multi-sectoral farm and multi-system hospital investments of ABUAD and experts in diverse fields in the university would help in the smooth take-off of the knowledge hub or zone being proposed by Governor Kayode Fayemi. He said: “We are meeting the state government on the creation of knowledge hub and how we can support transportation, agriculture and agro-based processing industries in Ekiti. “ABUAD has done exceedingly well in the area of agriculture. When you talk of a better agro-based zone that can boost economy, ABUAD is laying a good foundation. “With your multi-faceted investments and exploits in academics, you are not only a leading university in Africa but ABUAD is now the anchor of development in Ekiti. The institution is key to Ekiti and Southwest’s economies. “AfDB is proud of ABUAD’s achievements. One would wonder how a university that was established nine years ago could dominate virtually every sector in Nigeria. The feat that you have achieved makes it much easier for us to do business with you.” Aare Babalola hailed the bank for its strong commitment towards liberating Africa from the shackles of underdevelopment. The eminent lawyer said the AfDB fund given to the university was judiciously spent to equip the hospital to a world-class status. But he regretted that the university ought to have begun work on the proposed Industrial Park, comprising 121 units of industries, but for a suit filed by the former owner of the land where the investment was to take off. “When we conceptualised to build this hospital, we came to you for funding. But when the money didn’t come in time, we sourced for money elsewhere to begin the physical structures. When you eventually released your fund, we found it useful. We used it to purchase state-of-the-art equipment that are not available in any hospital here,” he said. The ABUAD founder added that lack of airport facility in Ekiti was making the state inaccessible to investors, thereby affecting the institution. Babalola said: “Try and go round our university and see what we have done with your money. We used the money to equip the 400-bed multi-system hospital. Here, we gave quality a priority. In fact, we are the first to begin mechatronics in Africa. “Let me also reemphasise that for you to do business with us or Ekiti government, you need access. “The road linking Lagos with Lokoja was constructed by Royal Niger Company before I was born and has not been improved upon. That is why we need an airport in this state.” 