EARLY investors who subscribed to Haven Homes project is smiling to the bank with 50 per cent gains realised from the original purchase price and the final selling price on the completion of the project. Its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Tayo Sonuga, who made this known in a statement, said discerning investors were able to tap quickly into their off plan investment window offered by the company. Off Plan purchases, he explained, is an arrangement whereby prospective home owners pay early to secure their stakes in the company’s upcoming project. “Because of our pedigree, a lot of our clients over time have reposed their trust in us and in our ability to deliver as promised. Even before we move to site to commence the new project, they pay upfront. As the values of the project and the houses still under construction appreciate and we raise prices following demand swells, their stakes in the project appreciate wildly in value.” A perfect illustration, Sonuga continued, is “where investors, who subscribed to our two-Bedroom at the initial price of N30million are now selling at N45 million even without paying the price in full”. “Some buyers only made an initial deposit of just N6million and have made a fantastic capital gain of N15million within record time. This speaks much for the immense appeal of our brand, which is made possible by the reputation we have built up over the years,” he said. Haven Homes recently completed and delivered Richmond Gate Estate Phase 2. The company is also known as the ‘celebrity developer,’ having helped complete beautiful homes for the likes of AY, Kizz Daniel, Tiwa Savage, Banky W and many more. It would be recalled that back in 2012, Tuface Idibia, Haven Homes’ brand ambassador also acquired two choice homes from the property company. Recently, ex-beauty queen and beauty entrepreneur, Dabota Lawson, acquired  a multi-million naira home with the help of luxury home developer, Haven Homes Haven Homes has since completed Richmond Gate Estate Phase 1, which is seen as the Beverly Hills of Africa by many, by virtue of the number of A- list celebrities, who have found the estate comfortable and safe enough to be its proud residents. Equally, VIPs, expatriates, executives of multi-nationals and other influential members of the society now live peacefully with their neighbours in Richmond Gate Estate’s serene atmosphere where electricity supply is available 24/7. With the completion of Richmond Gate Estate Phase 2 , where Dabota Lawson and other celebrities have already bought their homes, there is no doubt that this peaceful lifestyle has been extended further to many more.