In this age and time, there are many side jobs you can do to add to your monthly income. These jobs can be executed part time, full time or remotely. Some of these jobs don’t even require you to have an office or shop before you can do them. Many people are already making huge sum of money from these jobs. There are actually many of such jobs but in this article I listed only ten of such side hustles you can do to make extra bucks for yourself, either as a student, youth corp member, job seeker, even as an employed graduate. 1. Computer/Phone Repair Service. If you’re good at fixing things, you could start a phone and computer repair service. We live in a world where everyone owns a mobile phone or computer. This means that there is a big market for phone/computer repairers in Nigeria. You must not be a science student to become a computer or phone engineer.
There is a big market for phone engineers in Nigeria. You could even offer a delivery service to serve your customers better. This you can do by adding an extra sum of about N1,000 for the delivery of the gadget after repair. You can as well become a phone repairer that is well sought after by including home services to your services. Some people might want you to come fix their phones at home because they are busy, the rate of doing home services should be higher. 2. Car Washing Car wash business is really blooming because a lot of people are becoming car owners every day and because they would like to keep their cars clean. Some car owners will always visit a car wash every day. It is a side hustle you can venture into with little or no capital.
In fact you can start off this hustle with just bucket and detergents, visit place where cars are parked, tell car owners that you can wash their cars and make it sparkle inside out. 3. Buying and reselling on social Media The advent of technology has greatly increased the rate of buying and selling on the internet. This has made a lot of young people become remote traders. They buy and sell using the various social media platforms like Facebook, twitter, Instagram.
This is how a lot of people start their e-commerce journey, buy from from Amazon, Alibaba, Jumia, Konga and the likes and resell either on social media or directly to their friends. You can even spend some little cash promoting the products on Facebook or Instagram, just to make people aware of what you are selling, and sell off your products quicker. 4. Laundry / Dry cleaning services Many working class men and ladies today hardly have time to do their laundry after work or during weekends. So what they do is to pack all the clothes they had used during the week to a laundry shop. This particular hustle is recently the most sought after hustle. You can decide to render some home services, by going to the house of big men around your neighborhood during the weekends to wash and iron their used clothes.
You can choose to take them home to wash if permitted. In fact these days some people prefer you come and wash for them at home to avoid stories that touch the heart. We have heard of laundry men who wear their customer’s clothes to parties and events. So some people really don’t like giving out clothes to small laundry shops anymore, except you can prove to be trust worthy.
Another way you can go about this side hustle is to tell people you run laundry and dry cleaning service even without having a shop or a washing machine, and all you do is collect the clothes from them, take the clothes to a good dry-cleaning shop, beat down the price and make your own gain from the change, you don’t even need to own a shop, it is like running errand for your customers. Remember to add that you also do delivery services. 5. Social media consultant Almost everyone uses Facebook, Twitter, instagram, and Pinterest these days. But do you know that many companies are ready to pay you to help them manage their social media accounts either as their employee or as a remote digital marketer? You don’t need to study marketing to be qualified for this. All you need to be is being tech savvy, be conversant with the new trends on various social media platforms, learn how to create contents, do online advertisements, engage followers by creating engaging posts, then take some digital marketing certifications to boast your chances of getting a client. As a social media consultant you should be conversant with
* search marketing (SEO search engine optimisation, PPC pay per click), content creation, inbound marketing, digital display advertising, e-mail marketing, social media marketing, mobile marketing, analytics and so on. With these you can start working as a social media consultant.  6. Cook / Personal chef Are you a foodie or do you cook and people start asking for more after eating, you should better make it a side hustle, cook for people and get paid. There are many people who don’t have that time to cook for themselves at home and are seeking the services of a chef, who would do all their cooking for them. You can do this hustle even as a student living in the hostel. You can cook stews, rice, soups etc and sell to students who are too busy on campus. This is a very lucrative side job. You can as well cook for events and parties, let people know what you can do, sell yourself by cooking delicious delicacies. Be sure you don’t disappoint, you must be very careful and attentive, and you must not be a talkative if you must be successful in this hustle. 7. Event DJ Are you a lover of music? Do you have a good laptop with numerous musical compilations in and around the world? You can become an event DJ just with these. All you need is a laptop, get the victual DJ application installed in it and that’s all. Be updated with the latest music and make sure you have a playlist. When you start making money, you can buy the other instruments. Such instruments are the DJ controller, amplifiers, speakers and likes. But for the main time, you can always hire those equipment you can’t afford for now. Just be sure you update your playlists and make mix-tapes with your stage name. 8. Photography Photography is blooming in Nigeria. Gone are the days when old men and papas are the only photographers we have around our neighborhood. The advent of software like Photoshop, Corel draw, fireworks and likes means you can edit pictures and make them look perfectly beautiful.
All you need is a camera and a laptop for editing your work. These days we hardly see a wedding without a pre-wedding photos and people especially ladies hardly celebrate their birthdays without going to get a birthday photo shoot. So photography market is big, you can visit places like the beach, leisure parks, with your clients and give them a mind blowing shots. Good thing about photography is that you can also add your name as the water mark for reference purpose. 9. Cleaning and fumigation Cleaning is a job you can start up without any equipment save for your broom, dusters and buckets. To do this side job you must be very humble and be industrious. There are so many big men around in Nigeria who need trust worthy part-time cleaners who would always come around to help in cleaning, reach out to such people and tell them what you can do. You can as well add Fumigation services to your cleaning job, learn about insecticides that eradicates insect and those ones that can also kill grasses, a lot of people require the services of Fumigator. 10. Teaching musical instruments If you are good at playing musical instrument (basically the piano, guitar and Sax) and you are someone with a good temperament, you’ve got what you need to teach others and make money. People have built houses from this hustle, I know someone in particular who goes to schools to teach music part-time and also does private teaching, he also has tutors working for him, they cover some other schools for him.
You can take up this side job even without having your own instruments to teach with, many of these schools have numerous instruments, all they need is a tutor to come teach their pupils. You can also add instrument repairs, buying and selling of instruments to this side job and in little or no time you will be smiling home with cool cash.
Finally in anything you do, be sure to add some spice to give your hustle some hedge over others.