Following the inability of concerned forces to resolve the disagreement between Governor Godwin Obaseki and former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, Osagie Otabor in Bénin, in this report, examines the issues behind the face-off and wonders how All Progressives Congress will fare in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State. ALL is not well within the ranks of the All Progressives Congress in Edo State. The gulf is widening by the day and it appears the red line has been crossed by the warring groups. It is no longer speculation that the relationship between Governor Godwin Obaseki and National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has broken down. On the one side of the fight is the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), an Edo APC group whose sole purpose is to stop Governor Obaseki from securing a second term ticket of the party and on the other side, the core members of the Oshiomhole Political Family but now fully in support of Governor Obaseki’s second term bid. Comrade Oshiomhole has kept sealed lips on the matter and Governor Obaseki once described it as fake news but recent events show that both men are not on the same page in Edo political matters. The quarrel between Oshiomhole and Obaseki was long anticipated by some politicians right from the early days of Obaseki’s administration, especially when Obaseki’s style of governance was in direct opposite of Oshiomhole’s method and approach. Obaseki had told politicians when he assumed office to allow him focus on governance and leave politics for elected officials of the party.  He barred politicians from entering Government House without an invitation and refused to interfere in political affairs in the state. Political issues were most times referred to unit and ward leaders of the party by the governor, an action many big politicians viewed as a ploy by Obaseki to retire them from politics. To perhaps avoid a clash, Obaseki conceded the position of the leader of the state APC Caucus to Oshiomhole. Contractors used by Oshiomhole were retained by Obaseki. In the selection of Commissioners and local councils’ Executives, Oshiomhole was consulted. A source said some politicians wanted Obaseki to take instructions from Oshiomhole and when it failed, they tagged themselves ‘Oshiomhole men,’ including some commissioners in Obaseki’s cabinet. The source said many APC leaders wanted Obaseki to accede to anything brought before him in the name of Oshiomhole. Before he was made the National Chairman of the APC, Oshiomhole’s residence, both at Iyamho and in Bénin City, was thronged by politicians seeking ways to reach the governor despite Oshiomhole’s insistence that he was no longer the governor. Many political appointees of Oshiomhole who couldn’t get Obaseki to reappoint them joined the rank of ‘Oshiomhole men’. Also, the 2017 ban on the use of private individuals to collect state and local government revenue pitched Obaseki against those that benefited from the system across the state. The former private revenue collectors claimed the job was empowerment for the boys from previous administrations but Obaseki rather introduced e-ticketing which saw an astronomical increase in the revenue of state and local governments. Thus, the enemies of Obaseki were increasing. There were other aggrieved politicians that saw themselves as deserving appointment or patronage from Obaseki owing to their contribution to his electoral victory but were abandoned. These are the category of persons that formed the EPM for the purpose of removing Obaseki. It was gathered that the frosty relationship between Obaseki and Oshiomhole began to manifest during the nomination of candidates ahead of the 2019 general elections. In Oredo Federal Constituency, Obaseki wanted Hon Osagboivo Iyoha but Oshiomhole rooted for Osaro Obazee. It took the insistence of Obaseki that he as the governor must pick who represents his constituency in the House of Representatives. The resultant altercations, especially the cancellation of the Edo APC primaries, worsened their relationship. In May this year, members of the EPM unveiled themselves apparently to show where their loyalty lies. At the meeting, the EPM, led by Elder Francis Evbuomwan and Barr Henry Idahagbon, listed why they would not support Obaseki for second term. They said they were committed to rescuing the Edo APC from doldrums. The EPM further stated that Obaseki does not fit into the needed candidate equipped to strike a balance between delivering on good governance for the people and promoting the party platform that formed the government. Among their grievances were non-opening of the new five star hospital built by Oshiomhole. They accused Obaseki of deliberately shutting down the hospital as a ploy to create room for Oshiomhole to be criticized. Others are lack of political patronage, awarding contracts to friends from outside the state and closure of some tertiary institutions. A communique issued by the group reads in parts, “We are committed to rescuing the All Progressive Congress in Edo State due to the monumental loss it suffered in the last Presidential and National Assembly elections as a result of the actions of Governor Godwin Obaseki towards the party and its members. “That we urge the national leadership of our party, the APC, to support this efforts else we stand the risk of losing hold on the government of Edo State to the other political parties with whom the governor is already empowering clandestinely. “That we condemn in the strongest terms the resort to intimidation and harassment of loyal party members by the governor and his aides on account of their dissent with the style of governance and not fulfillment of promises made to many local government areas. “That we demand the immediate opening of the five star Central Hospital in Benin City built by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole administration and the resuscitation/opening of the Tayo Akpata University , Ekiadolor and College of Agriculture, Iguorhiakhi for the use and benefit of Edo citizens.” If the EPM had hoped that its action would spur Obaseki to appease them, they are mistaken as attempt by some leaders to broker peace between Obaseki and Oshiomhole hit the wall because Obaseki insisted that Oshiomhole must issue a statement denouncing activities of EPM before they would meet. An intervention by President Mohammadu Buhari, which led to a meeting between the two leaders in Abuja, also did not yield results. It was gathered that Oshiomhole told Obaseki to go and settle with aggrieved party leaders in the likes of Obahiagbon, Tony Kabaka, Osakpamwan Eriyo, Thomas Okosun, Francis Inegbeneki and others. Another condition for peace was for Obaseki to drop his deputy, Philip Shaibu, Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie and Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr. Crusoe Osagie. Indications that all did not go down well at the Abuja peace meeting was when Oshiomhole’s former Political Adviser, Mr. Charles Idahosa, and Prince Austin Eweka berated Oshiomhole for attempting to abrogate the powers of a godfather to himself. Idahosa insisted that Oshiomhole’s refusal to say anything after Obaseki said there was no issues between them was consent to activities of EPM. The quarrel however shifted to who controls the Edo State House of Assembly. The APC won all the 24 seats and majority of them were supposed loyalists of Oshiomhole. Obaseki managed to outsmart his opponents and had his preferred Speaker, Hon Frank Okiye elected in his ‘Wake and see’ style. From 15 members-elect opposed to emergence of Okiye, the numbers have depleted to 12. The whereabouts of the 12 members-elect are unknown even though there are speculations that they are holed up in Abuja. With the control of the House of Assembly, Obaseki appeared set to take grips of his administration. In the quest to resolve the Edo Assembly crisis, Obaseki sent the Deputy Governor to a meeting in Abuja where the Senate and APC NWC asked that he send another proclamation letter for the 24-member Assembly to be properly inaugurated. To prevent taking over of the Assembly by the 13 lawmakers-elect under the cover of heavy security apparatus, Clerk of the Edo State House of Assembly, Alhaji Yayaha Audu Omogbai, got restraining orders from the Federal High Court in Bénin City barring the NWC of the APC and the Inspector General Police, Adamu Mohammed, from harassing or interfering in the legislative duties of the Edo State House of Assembly. Justice M. Umar who gave the restraining order in the motion ex-parte, ordered defendants in the suit, their servants and agents, not to interfere, disrupt or obstruct the constitutional duties of members of the Edo State House of Assembly. He also barred the defendants from further publishing in any newspaper or other media, any inciting publications concerning the inauguration of the 7th Assembly of the Edo State House Assembly and the election of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker which took place on June 17, 2019 in the Edo State House of Assembly.” According to the court document, “that an interim order of injunction is hereby granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from interfering with, obstructing or harassing, in any manner whatsoever, the plaintiffs in the performance of their constitutional duties as the legislative arm of the Edo State Government pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice for interlocutory injunction. “That interim order of injunction is also granted restraining the defendants by themselves, their servants, agents, officers or privies from further committing any act aimed at disparaging the integrity of the legislative arm of the Edo State Government and/or destabilising the peace, order and good governance of Edo State in general, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice for interlocutory injunction.” Governor Obaseki on Wednesday sacked eight Commissioners believed to be loyal to Oshiomhole. The governor immediately nominated six persons for appointment as commissioners without deference to Oshiomhole and they included Damian Lawani; Joe Ikpea; Felix Akhabue; Moses Agbakor; Momoh Oise Omorogbe and Marie Edeko. The Egure Oshiomoshiofu of Igarra in Akoko Edo Local Government Area of Edo and a chieftain of the APC, Chief Adewole Mayaki, had earlier told newsmen that any plot against the second term bid of the governor was an exercise in futility and bound to fail. Also, the Estako Solidarity Front said those kicking against Obaseki are plotting to return the state to the Peoples Democratic Party because they were defectors from the PDP. President of ESF, Comrade Said Momoh, in a press statement cautioned Oshiomhole to know his true friends and those that have genuine intention to develop Edo State. But a former Minority Whip of the House of Representatives, Samson Osagie, in an interview said no amount of intimidation and harassment can stop their disagreements with Obaseki “His deliberate attempt to sideline party leaders from the party administration and his vow to retire all politicians is the bane of his problem, coupled with his closure of institutions in Edo South while using consultants to carry out the responsibilities of this institution is unacceptable. The staff and students of these institutions are in limbo. His substandard roads, many of which are jointly funded by World Bank and NDDC, are a source of worry. “He imported outsiders from Lagos, USA, Delta to preside over our affairs. Derides every one that disagrees with him, his growing authoritarian tendency unacceptable, No one is asking him for contract or money. ” It is not clear yet how this quarrel will end as some field ‘generals’ of Oshiomhole are now in support of Obaseki. Also, the Edo State Executives members of the APC are backing Obaseki. Also, besides the known EPM members, there are many other aggrieved persons against Obaseki. Given the development, only the days ahead will determine how APC will fare in the governorship election.