A total of 142 SS3 boys participated in the pulling out graduation rites of C.M.S Grammar School, Bariga to mark their exit from the 160-year old secondary school. They were pulled by senior management staff of the school by a thick rope a part of which each of them held as they walked in twos towards the school’s back gate after a valedictory service that featured hymns, prayers, speeches and presentation of awards to the prefects. Vice Principal Administration of the school, Mr Olayinka Alagbala, said the ceremony was symbolic to show they had been guided properly out of the school and released to the world to do greater things. The Principal, Rev Olubusola, Sofekun, said he was confident the boys had been well prepared for future academic and job endeavours – including getting adequate exposure to ICT. “We exposed them to 21st century skills.  Every student has a laptop; we also use interactive boards.  Our children are into robotics.  I feel elated to be associated with this school.  I have told the students to go and conquer the world,” he said. Sofekun praised the old students of the school, under the aegis of their association, the Old Grammarians’ Society (OGS), for their sustained interest in the school.  He said many of them had their wards attending the school. “I would say 40 per cent of our children are children of old students.  The OGS has been so passionate they have an office in the school.  They spend their time, treasure and talent to ensure this school is better than it was when they were around.  We have hostels, laboratories, halls renovated by the old students.  Anytime we call on them, they are always here.  We do not look for resource persons whenever we have programmes,” he said. As parting gift, the SS3 pupils donated a neon sign that displayed the school’s name – which was similar to the gift donated by the 156 JSS3 pupils, who were also celebrated for completing their junior secondary education at the event. Dignitaries present at the event were: the Chairman, Board of Governors, Justice Olayinka Faji; President, OGS, Mr Oluwatoyin Vincent; Chairman, Permanent Commission, The Lord Bishop, Diocese Of Awori Church Of Nigeria (Anglican Communion)- Right Revd Johnson Akin Atere; and the Executive Secretary, Lagos Anglican Schools Management Board (LASMAB), Venerable Victor Ayo Olusa .