What’s being a technocrat? Someone quipped in Facebook.  Owning a Tecno phone?  That fully epitomizes the absurdity of the trending debate. Another had wailed, from his Facebook window, apparently calling upon millions of others, cyber-denizens all, to come wail with him: “Where are the technocrats in Buhari’s cabinet list?”  Where, indeed! Going back to English Literature history, the English were profiled as so argumentative, in an era,  that they would lunch a full polemics on the best way to break an egg!  Then, tempest and lexis, thunder and semantics, would dawn: a ferocious verbal war, only for the brave, sending the lily-livered diving for cover! Just to impress on the best way to break an egg? Maybe when history comes to record contemporary Nigeria and its social media temper, maybe its verdict would be very close to that of Britishers of that English epoch.  The big difference though, would be an additional emptiness that makes such pseudo-polemics ultra-hollow indeed! How do these folks define “technocrat”?  Simple, as with a baby’s guess: a complete non-politician! So, no matter your technocratic background in the professions, classical and contemporary, once you joined politics, you lose your technocratic essence — or at least, so decrees the cyber mobs, flushing with knowledge all hot, red and smoking, definitions distilled from the most crowded pepper soup and  beer parlous joints! Festus Keyamo, SAN, thinks he is technocrat?  Perish the thought!  Was he not a founding member of APC in Delta?  Was he not PMB’s campaign chief spokesperson?  Is he not a card-carrying member of the APC, traducers be damned? So, how is he a democrat?  What’s his name doing on that ministerial list? Or that Okechukwu Ogah, one-time consultant physician/cardiologist (special grade) at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan?  Still, he lost all that technocratic glitter when he joined politics and became commissioner of Health in his native Abia State!  Politicians and technocrats are oil and water.  They never mix! What of Babatunde Raji Fashola, who even Asiwaju Bola Tinubu loves to call the SAN with a sound mind?  Well, the former Lagos governor, who best approximated the governor-as-scholar, nay policy philosopher, was near-excellent as governor and worked his brains out as a super infrastructure minister, in the PMB first term. But he has mixed with politicians for too long to retain his technocratic tag! That is even truer of Olorunnimbe Mamora, former Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, two-term senator of the Federal Republic, though before it all, a trained medical doctor.  Again, he is too much of a politician to remain being a technocrat! Don’t the Yoruba say the sheep that schmoozes with dogs ends up eating faeces? That is the problem with this Buhari ministerial list.  But will someone who has the ears of the president help tell him? We need technocrats, not politicians, in his cabinet.  And any one engaged in politics ceases to be a technocrat! Is that too much for the president to grasp? Rise, o ye technocrats!  It’s your time to take over!  The angry cyber denizens are behind you!     