Abba Community in Njikoka local government area of Anambra State has petitioned Governor Willie Obiano and the Police Commissioner to stop the people of Ukpo in Dunukofia local government area to stop provoking them. They warned that their quietness should not be taken as cowardice, adding they have held the Youths of the community enough and should not be held responsible if anything thing happens. The Community’s petition dated 23rd July 2019 and made available to reporters in Awka, was copied to the Director, Department of State Service DSS and signed by the president General of the Community, Engr B C Anaekwe The petition was titled report of acts of provocation and complaint against malicious damage of the property of Abba community.
The two neighboring communities of Abba and Ukpo in different local government areas in the state had engaged in a fierce battle over the original ownership of a piece of land located in the area. The feud had led to the alleged tear gas of Abba women and their elders some weeks ago by the police deployed to the area during the protest. No fewer than 18 indigenes of Abba were also arrested and detained for days by the police command. The petition reads in part, “Constrained by the recent steps by Ukpo community to provoke and promote disaffection as well as inter-communal conflict between the Ukpo and Abba communities, I write to, on behalf of Abba community of Njikoka Local Government Area, bring a formal report and complaint for your records and expected necessary action. “Presently, the relationship between Abba and Ukpo communities is at its lowest because of avoidable disputation of the ownership of a large expanse of land generally known as and called “Agu Abba” from tine immemorial”
“Arising from the disputation and impossibility imposed on Abba community to test the judgement of the High Court, the Supreme Court in a judgement delivered on the 15th of February, 2019 in a suit no. 589/2016 held that whatever judgement obtained at the trial Court was not enforceable because the records of proceedings were missing. “Ever since then, there have been sustained attacks on Abba community and its property by its Ukpo counterpart.
“These attacks are evidenced by the following acts; Mounting of offending gigantic billboards bearing the name of Ukpo Community among others
“In the night of Saturday, 20th July, 2019, all signposts bearing the name “Abba” at and around Abba junction were pulled down, destroyed and taken away. “We got the intelligence earlier and duly informed the DPO, Abagana, our Lawyer and others. These signposts bea” “We wish to make it clear that we have not clung to being law abiding and peaceful because we are cowards, but because we are convinced that it is wrong to do otherwise. It is common knowledge that no community has monopoly of violence or unruly behavior. “We most humbly inform you that, as we write, the patience of both our youth and elders are wearing thinner and thinner with each passing day as the pressure and provocation are not only becoming most unbearable, but equally killing”
“The simple appeal Abba community is making is, for the Nigeria Police Force to secure the lives and property of the people of Abba in the objective discharge of its statutory mandate. We must not be forced to defend ourselves.”