Following a successful launch of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) at the 12th Extraordinary Summit in Naimey, Niger, the African Union (AU) is set to send a high-powered delegation to the 2nd edition of the Trade with Africa Business Summit in Chicago. The delegation would be led by His Excellency Ambassador Albert Muchanga, AU Trade Commissioner and Champion of Trade award recipient. Ambassador Muchanga will deliver a resounding keynote address on AfCFTA. “According to the World Bank, U.S. controls 40% of global wealth and remains an important trade partner for Africa.  With manufacturing steadily shifting to Africa, the timing is right for U.S. business leaders to develop effective strategies towards the region particularly in the context of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and for Africa’s exporters to maximize the African Growth & Opportunity Act (AGOA). The Trade with Africa Business Summit represents an effective platform to facilitate trade discussions and it provides a front row sit to business leaders looking to engage, build partnerships as well as educate themselves on the growing economic impact Africa is having on the global market.” said Toyin Umesiri, CEO Nazaru LLC. and Founder of the Trade with Africa Business Summit. The Trade with Africa Business Summit brings together global business leaders, policy experts, investors, entrepreneurs, development agencies, financial institutions and supply chain and logistics experts geared towards increasing trade with Africa. This year’s event would be held at the McDonald’s Hamburger University – Oak Brook on August 1st and 2nd with Press Conference and VIP reception scheduled for the evening of July 31st. This year’s event would be marked with powered side-line meetings, public speeches, panel discussions, workshops and direct engagement between investors and government representatives and it positions the Chicago Metropolitan area and the State of Illinois as a favorable destination for Africa’s business & political leaders looking to create new trade partnerships in the U.S. Confirmed speakers include: Ambassador of Mauritania to the United States of America Ousmane Ba; African Union Trade Commissioner Ambassador Albert Muchanga; African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) – Cairo, Egypt Managing Director (Intra-African Trade Initiatives) Mrs Kanayo Awani; U.S. Army War College Carlisle, Pennsylvania Director (African Studies) Colonel William Wyatt; African Union Commission (AUC) Head (Africa’s Strategic Partnerships Bureau of the Chairperson) Dr Levi Uche Madueke; Deloitte Sr. Chief of Staff/E-Commerce Forum Africa Chairman  Dylan Piatti; PWC Africa Chief Economist Dr Andrew S. Nevin; U.S. Export Import Bank (EXIM) Business Development Expert LaTaunya Darden; South African Consulate – Chicago Trade Commissioner Shakira Motan; CNBC Africa – Senior Producer & News Anchor Michael Mugisha and Author of Motoring Africa: Sustainable Automotive Industrialisation Edward T. Hightower. Theme of the event is: ‘Growing U.S. – Africa Trade, Trade Financing & Developing Africa’s Supply Chain’. Topics to be covered include but not limited to the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA), African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), Market Entry Strategy, Export & Import, Securing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), Trade Financing, Supply Chain and Logistics, Sustainable Agriculture, Block-chain Technology, Manufacturing, E-Commerce as an Engine of Growth, Healthcare, Infrastructure and Youth & Women Empowerment. “Africa offers new markets for U.S. made products. Similarly, U.S. serves as an untapped market under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) for authentic African products (raw and manufactured). I am excited to host the AU delegation as well as attendees, speakers and sponsors from all over the world including several African countries. The Trade with Africa Business Summit represents and effective platform to facilitate trade at scale.with stakeholders from the world’s next economic frontier.” Concludes Toyin Umesiri The event is sponsored by Nazaru LLC., Westrock Coffee and the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) in partnership with several other organizations. For more information and to register to attend visit https://www.twasummit.com  