This year’s celebration of 10th edition of Wole Soyinka International Cultural Exchange Project and the 85th birthday of the Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka kicked off yesterday at Freedom Park Lagos. The train moves to Abeokuta, Ogun State today and Akure Ondo State on Monday. Executive Producer Alhaji Teju Kareem speaks with Ozolua Uhakheme on the events line up for the celebration that traversed three states This is the 10th edition of Wole Soyinka International Cultural Exchange Project. As its Executive Producer, what is the philosophy behind the project and what drives you? Day in day out we are faced with conflicting emotions arising from the experiences we face. They shape our belief systems, our will to fight and our resolve to leave or remain. We have seen the past; we are in the present and can only desire a future that doesn’t taint our love with a little skepticism for the place we call home. Despite all the things that have been, all that might never be, and the things we hope to be, we wake up every day wielding the power of change in our hands which is the power that lies solely in doing. Doing that, which takes this nation closer and closer to a place where we can raise our shoulders, close our eyes, take deep breaths and see bright colours. Regardless of stumbling blocks, uncertainties and fears, we look into the eyes of children and see hope, maybe tomorrow will finally come and the leaders promised will emerge. Prof Wole Soyinka is and will always remain an icon and example for us, a reflection of who we must be in terms of patriotism and dedication to our country. He has shown unwavering commitment to his country, disregarding the incidents of the past. He has carried on in his dedication and continues to shine light for those coming behind to see. Our strength is enhanced by knowing that the path we have chosen is like those we admire. As we dedicate ourselves to the beautiful possibilities of the future by ensuring that every action, thought and decision leads us there; we can open our minds, find lenses through which we can view ourselves and others. Right here and now, there is a future we do not see or know, there is a future that can become if we plant, water and nurture. There is a future glaring in the laughter, curiosity and optimism of our children, these give us faith, faith in a future that we can build. So, it is for this future we do what we do. It has been an eventful ten years. How is the journey so far? The WSICE took off on July 13th 2010. With support from the Ondo State government, Ibikunle Amosun & Co Accounting Firm and Folag Water Resources, the ICE participants from the United States of America and Nigeria toured Nigeria, Barbados and London. With the theme Arts and Culture as a tool for Global Diplomacy, the plays Preemptive by Niyi Coker Jnr. and Seven by Rachel Hastings as directed by Segun Ojewuyi were apt and very well received by the audiences at all the venues. Dr Tunde Awosanmi and Mr. Jahman Anikulapo were neck deep in the planning and delivery of all aspects of the event. The essays for that year had senior and junior categories and were open to youths and students from all over the country. The senior category had the theme of the year as its topic while the juniors wrote on The Wole Soyinka I know. With various prizes at stake including an all-expenses paid trip to London which was won by Gbenga Adeniji (a journalist with Punch newspapers), the essay competitions were fun for all the participants. Between 2011 and 2017, the yearly event increased in scope and support from state governments and private individuals thus resulting in successful outings. For last year, WS 84 started on a high note on Thursday July 12, 2018. The theme for the year was The pursuit of truth: Lies and the National Psyche and unlike previous years, all events of the WSICE for 2018 took place at the Ijegba resort. This beautifully rustic resort still under construction at the time by Zmirage Multimedia Ltd comprises of a one story glass and wood centrally located tree-house VIP reception area, guest chalets with toilet and shower facilities, an open air amphitheater, a mammy market complete with vendors stalls and a man-made lake separating the amphitheater from the rest of the resort. This cultural retreat is set in the lush forest behind the Kemta Estate home of the Nobel Laureate Prof. Akinwande Oluwole Soyinka, whose name was borrowed by the project and whose ideals the cultural exchange seeks to inculcate in the student participants year after year. WS 84 participants included 84 students from over 20 States of the Federation, 1000 students from the host State Ogun as well as international participants Susan Harrocks and Baretta Chullen from the USA who were led by Co-Executive Producer Prof. Segun Ojewuyi. The Ogun State government and the office of the first lady once again gave full support to the program. Performances which are a hallmark of the WSICE was not in short supply and the star performers were Edaoto, Footprints of David and Chief Udo Mariam who his band took the appreciative audience on a musical tour of Nigeria. The former child star now a handsome young man wowed the crowd with his trademark Zylophone playing hits from Christy Essien Igbokwe, Flavor, Davido to highlife hits by the masters like Victor Uwaifo. The excited crowd danced and danced further inspiring the exhilarated musicians. At some point well after 10pm, it dawned on the officials that there were flights to catch in Lagos early the next morning and futile attempts were made to end the celebration. The artistes took their bows and packed up their instruments while the DJ took over with contemporary music from the millennial superstars. Finally and shortly before midnight on Saturday July 14th, the music stopped and calm again overtook the lush green forest of Ijegba resort. As we go into the 10th edition of WSICE in July 2019, it has become clear that the Ogun State government is fully invested in this vision honoring one of its foremost sons’ and grand ambassador. The present administration in the State is unrelenting in supporting WS85. What are we to expect this year? Starting from yesterday at the Kongi’s Harvest Art Gallery, Freedom Park, Lagos there will be an advocacy session, exploring Soyinka’s body of works to reflect on the concepts of Rights, Honour, Respect, Patriotism, Toleramce & Humanism. This will be followed by presentations of books such as Memo on our Future: Essays by Nigerian Children as inspired by Wole Soyinka’s Visions” — a compilation of winning essays by past winners of the annual WSICE essays competition; Igho goes to farm, a children book by the culture journalist, Anote Ajeluorou to be distributed to about 1000 students across the country and The Soyinka Impulse: Essays on Wole Soyinka (ed. Duro Oni and Bisi Adigun; published by Bookcraft Publishing) – a collection of presentations by various scholars during an international conference held on occasion of the 80th birthday anniversary celebration of Soyinka five years ago. There will also be presentation of Childe Internationale by Creative Majesty Theatre Company at Kongi Harvest’s Art Gallery/Amphitheatre, while projection theatre held in collaboration with the American theatre artiste, Rebecca Jackson-Moeser will take stage by 4pm. On Saturday, 85 students from various schools around Nigeria will participate in the essay competition at Ijegba Abeokuta, which will be followed by Do Your Own Thing & Sightseeing featuring mini competitions like Spelling Bee, Dancing Competition, fashion Parade, Debates and cultural exhibitions. On Sunday, the 85 finalists will be hosted by Prof Soyinka at his Ijegba residence. Winners of the competition will be announced at the event. There will be a presentation of Death & the King’s Horseman, by Live Theatre Lagos in collaboration with Park Theatre will also be held at the close of the event. The celebration train will move to Akure on Monday, and wife of Ondo State governor  Mrs. Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu,  will mentor the 85 students alongside other 500 senior secondary school students’ from Ondo State on the project theme. Among other events, there will be presentation of The Soyinka Impulse: Essays on Wole Soyinka (ed. Duro Oni and Bisi Adigun; published by Bookcraft Publishing).