The thought of sitting on a plane for hours can be really disturbing. However, if you prepare properly and plan your air time well, the time will seem to go by more quickly. The trick is having a few things to do to choose from so that boredom will not set in.
Here are some ideas that can make your long haul flight more pleasurable. Read a book:  One of the things I enjoy doing the most on a long trip is reading a book. Whether it’s a random paperback bought at the airport or a carefully chosen novel, books can help reduce boredom. Clean up your phone:  One of the best times to clear your mobile phones off junks and free up some memory is during a long trip. You can create categories for your apps and put all similar ones into a folder, go through your contact list and clean up the entries you don’t need or people you can’t remember, delete the applications you never use, go through your gallery and delete those embarrassing selfies and duplicates of photos that look practically the same. Watch a new series:  Pick one show you’ve been meaning to watch and download the first season to your phone before your trip begins. While your phone is offline, you can always watch the saved movies without realizing how much time you have spent on the trip. Play phone games:  It is pretty easy for me to occupy an hour or two playing games on my phone. My absolute favourite games are Candy Crush, Four pics one word and BitMango. The trick is to find the perfect game for you and enjoy it while the trip is on.
However, if it happens that you are not with any technology, flip to the back of the airlines magazine, most will have a crossword puzzle or Sudoku game. Plan something:  Plan the decoration of your next home, places to visit after arrival, a dinner party, a surprise birthday, or a work project. You’ll be surprised how productive you can be during a few uninterrupted hours. You could even plan your next trip. Read the News:  Being inflight doesn’t mean you can’t read your favourite news sites or blogs. There are many ways to have access to them when you are offline too. You can make use of Safari or Chrome browser on your iPhone. This helps you open an article and then add it to your reading list.
Alternatively, you can open several tabs on your internet browser prior to boarding with any articles you want to read. You won’t have access to any links, but you’ll be able to see everything on each tabs page. Create a gratitude journal:  Over time, I have cultivated the habit of writing everything I’m thankful for at the end of every week. This can be made super easy during a long flight. You can start by writing down three things for every day of the past week you feel thankful for. Keep the habit when you reach your destination and beyond. Write a story:  You can always write something interesting out of flight experience. Your friends might be interested in knowing what your journey was like, the kind of people you met and many others. Write down your thoughts about the trip and keep the memories forever. Answer Emails offline:  Yes, you can answer emails even when you are not connected to the internet. If you have a Gmail account simply download Gmail Offline to your Chrome Browser and voila! You can read and respond to each pending email. Although, they won’t get to the recipient immediately, but will automatically send when you are reconnected to the internet. If everything else fails, sleep:  If you run out of things to do on a plane, have a snooze-worthy playlist ready, pop in your headphones and drift off to dreamland. You’ll be glad you did.