An NGO, Hope for Life Initiative, has gathered widows at Ikorodu Town Hall, Lagos to impact their lives and those of their children. With the theme, Uplifting the Invincible Woman, the group said it is out to impact the lives of the less privileged and vulnerable in the society, especially women and children. The NGO, according to its founder, Kendi Aig-Imoru, has since inception, provided a platform for improving the quality of lives of children and widows, while creating an avenue for the widows to network with local and international bodies, government and co-operative organisation for positive interaction. Aig-Imoru, who spoke at the event, disclosed that the vision of the day was borne out of her passion to reach out to the less privileged widows and children through mentorship and empowerment programmes to reduce and alleviate the suffering and hardship some widows go through day by day. She expressed her excitement at seeing the success of the project, which was ultimately to put smiles on the faces of the widows, children and less privileged in the society, a cause that has been on for eight years now. Some of the participants equally gave their testimony about the support the initiative has provided. Among them was a widow and co-ordinator for widows, Mrs Motayo Deborah Abdullahi, who spoke of the care and encouragement Hope For Life Initiative brought to them. She expressed her joy and happiness over the success of the day, but also called for more support from corporate organisations and the government to do more and show support for the widows living in the society. She equally used the opportunity to encourage and advise her fellow widows not to lose hope and keep their faith in God. Among those present at the event were the Local Council Development Chairman of Isawo, Adeleke Abdulaziz, who expressed his happiness at meeting the widows, and Reverend Adediran Adesegun, a landlord and resident of Isawo Community. Others present include entrepreneurs and businessmen who promise to show support to the widows. The event ended on a high note as food items, gifts, and other necessities were distributed to the widows with lots of words of encouragement to boost morale. It was used to mark on June 23 to mark the International Day for Widows (IDW) all around the world. IDW is a United Nations ratified day of action to address the “poverty and injustice faced by millions of widows and their dependents in many countries.”