Drugs worth over N50milion have been destroyed by flood water at the Drug Market, Bridge Head, Onitsha, commercial city of Anambra State. This is even as a 45-year old trader, Nnaemeka Okoli, reportedly got drawned in Umuchu community in Aguata Local Government Area of the state. The two-day down pour which lasted for several hours on the first day, spread to almost half of the market, destroying drugs in over 130 shops. Some of the victims who made efforts to evacuate cartons of drugs already damaged by the flood, described the disaster as alarming. Speaking with the Nation, the traders attributed the cause of the disaster to the blockage of drainages in the area with refuses. They narrated how the previous rain compelled them to carry out emergency sanitation exercise which took them over three hours. One of the victims, Arthur Ndimele said the flood that ravaged the market so much that it was difficult to identify the drainages from the roads within the market. He said, “The early morning down pour started by 5.30am and by 7am our shops had already been flooded. “It was not up to twenty minutes we finished evacuating the flood that another heavy dòwn commenced. “The entire market got so flooded that we could not identify the drainages from the roads within the market. The Executive Secretary, Anambra State Special Taskforce on fake drugs adulterated and substandard products, Chibuzor Nwokeji said his team would embark on routine check soon after the flood recedes. He said, “The traders embarked on sanitation but the second rainfall has destroyed a lot of  drugs. “The drainage system linking the flood water to the River Niger have been blocked, making it difficult for easy passage of flood. “The taskforce will embark on routine check. If the drugs were totally damaged we will confiscate them to avoid selling them to the consumers which have now become poisonous to the body.” He appealed to the state government to come to their aid in view of the huge loss they experienced. The body of late Okoli, a trader at Nkwo market Umuchu, was said to have been dumped at the boundary between Osete and Ugwuakwu villages, both in Umuchu community. According to an eyewitness, the deceased had shut his shop around 7pm and was home bound when the incident occurred. He said, “It was raining heavily and night was fast approaching as at the time he closed. But on his way home, he fell into a deep drainage system that was filed to capacity with fast moving, devastating flood. “His where-about was not known and as his family went to sleep and handed over the entire thing to God after waiting tirelessly for his arrival. “The next morning, a search party was set up which later discovered the dead body at a lonely boundary spot after an intense search. Reacting, state Chairman, Civil liberties Organization, Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme attributed the death to the ongoing rehabilitation of the Umuchu road by the state government. He added that the flood was not properly channeled by the construction firm. He said, “There should be proper channeling of the flood. This man had closed his shop and left because it was raining heavily and night was fast approaching. “Little did he know that it was death that was knocking on the door until he was washed away by the devastating flood. “The corpse has since been deposited at a morgue in Umuchu.” 