Five days after pipelines explosion that rocked Ijegun, a Lagos suburb, residents of the area were in a panic after news filtered that the vandals were back to resume their illegal activities. The Nation learnt that many residents flee their homes on Tuesday midnight. They did not return until around 5am after police allegedly chased the vandals away. A resident, Oke Olayemi, who spoke with The Nation, said some guys started moving from one street to another in the midnight, calling residents to wake up. Olayemi said the boys were shouting ‘these boys are back again!’ He said: “This time, some other boys in the area down to Ijedodo came out to sensitise the residents. So, we had to run for our lives. Many people left their homes and ran away fearing likely fire outbreak. “Around 4am , I had to call the police station to alert them of our observation that these guys came since 12 O’Clock and they started loading their trucks with fuel. What happened last week is still fresh in our memories. These vandals have been operating for the past two to three weeks before the incident happened last week. So, they came back yesterday and continue with their work until 4am. ” Another resident, Chuks Anthony, said the police arrived the scene chased vandals away. “By 2am, they called us that these guys have arrived. They started by phoning but they came around 12 midnight. One of our landlords was the one who alerted us that they were around. They came with a number of trucks. What they came to do was illegal. So, in fact, it’s unimaginable. We were told that these guys are armed and they are big boys. It is not just small boys doing this operation. It’s all these street boys that have filing station around us here that are doing this nonsense because we were told that what they are selling are illegal fuel siphoned. That’s where they get their supply. We need security; we want protections from them because they will soon damage people’s lives,” Anthony said. According to him, one of the victims died on Tuesday morning in hospital. “A family very close to my place there lost one of their sisters on Tuesday morning because of that fire incident that happened or something. She died in one of these neighbouring hospitals around us here,” he said. Meanwhile, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that the Divisional Police Officer at the Isheri Oshun Police Station, Rafiu Akinlade, a Superintendent (SP) said policemen responded immediately they were alerted on the vandalism. “As soon a call got to me from the community, I immediately sent out my team but on getting there, the vandals had abandoned their tools and fled.” “However, my men have collected all the tools and pipes they came with for their operation. Although we are yet to apprehend the vandal, an investigation is going on,” Akinlade told NAN.