A magistrate Court in Oshogbo, Osun State capital has sentenced two men to six months imprisonment without an option of fine for presenting forged laboratory test results and a forged bank teller for the certification of table water product. The men are Mr. Shodipo Olujimi and Gold Channel International. Delivering judgement in the case filed by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) against the duo, Chief Magistrate Modele.A. Awodele said the first defendant was convicted to six months imprisonment without option of fine while the second defendant, Gold Channels International (aka Genesis Pure Water was banned from producing for the period of six months. “That you Shodipo Olujimi ‘M’ and Gold Channels International both of Km 2 Ede Road Ile Ife on or about the 1st day of July 2014 at Osogbo, within the jurisdiction of this court, did commit felony to wit: forge laboratory test results (analysis/report) allegedly issued by PAM BEE Consult on laboratory test purportedly conducted on Genesis Table Water (Sachet), produced by you, which results you knew to be fake and presented same to the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, with intent that it will be acted upon as genuine and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 467 of the Criminal Law 34 Vol. II, Laws of Osun State 2003. “That you Shodipo Olujimi ‘M’ and Gold Channels International both of Km 2 Ede Road Ile Ife on or about the 1st day of July 2014 at Osogbo, within the jurisdiction of this court, did forge and present to the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, a forged Zenith Bank Teller No. 1557310 which you knew to be fake with intent that it will be acted upon as genuine for the payment twenty five thousand Naira (N25, 000.00) penalty for your company’s failure to submit genuine laboratory test reports on your pure water product, and you received Standards Organisation of Nigeria’s cash payment receipt No. 211681 in the said amount and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 467 of the Criminal Law 34 Vol. II, Laws of Osun State 2003. Commenting on the judgement, SON prosecuting Counsel Adeleke Olofindare stated “Though the wheel of justice might turn slowly, it surely has caught up with the convicts. The Director General of SON Osita Aboloma Esq. has severally reiterated the organisation’s commitment to combating standards infractions in whatever form. This judgement is a clear message to all those involved in the production, importation and distribution of substandard, injurious and life-endangering products that the law will eventually catch up with them.”  