An indigenous firm, Rungas Industries, has secured an executive partnership with the National Organisation for Military Production (NOMP) to produce and assist with the distribution of composite cylinders for Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) and Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). The NOMP, (an affiliate of the Egyptian government), it was learnt, has already allocated 28,000 square metres of land for the $30 million project in Alexandria – home of the Egyptian Gas Industrial Park. The facility will be producing 200,000 LPG cylinders for domestic use (cooking) and 130,000 CNG cylinders for vehicles and automobiles. Rungas and Amtrol-Alfa Worthington of Portugal are providing the technology and technical knowhow to set up the type III LPG composite cylinder facility, which will be dedicated to domestic use, while the CNG cylinders produced will be used for vehicles across Egypt. Both products will be exported from Egypt to neighbouring Arab countries as well as serve the North and East African markets (benefiting from international trade agreements that are already in place). The Egyptian government has mandated Rungas and its partner United Group to set up the facilities after extensive product research was carried out and Amtrol facility in Portugal was visited by an Egyptian delegation to carry out a compliance inspection to ensure that cylinders met all standards for cylinder production in Egypt. National Organisation for Military Production Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Dr.  Hassan Ahmad Ab Elimagied, executed the contracts on behalf of Egyptian government and provided support verbally for the project. Rungas Group of Companies Chief Executive Officer, Mr Lanre Runsewe, said the partnership with the Egyptian firm coupled with the ongoing plans to set up a state-of-the-art LPG composite cylinder plant in Nigeria, would be a continental force. He said: “Rungas has been an agent of Amtrol Alfa- Worthington, promoting their LPG composite cylinders across West Africa sub-region, whilst operating an import and supply model. We have been supplying composite cylinders to oil majors and Independent retailers across 10 states of Nigeria. Our clients are Oando, MRS, Forte Oil, Ultimate Gas and Sublime, among others.” He said the company has approval from the Ghana Standards Authority to supply and distribute Amtrol LPG composite cylinders in Ghana and currently in the process of gaining regulatory approvals in Cameroon and Cote D’Ivoire. Runsewe advised that the Type IV CNG Composite Cylinders that would be produced would be the first of its kind in Africa, Asia and Middle East. The cylinders, according to him, would be in two sizes – the LPG cylinders would have a capacity of 60 litres for domestic use and the cylinders for the public vehicles would be 80 litres. “CNG is important for the Egyptian government because of the need to run on cleaner fuel and to meet IMF condition, which advised the country to reduce fuel subsidy,” Runsewe said. The Ministry of Armed Production has actually engaged with CNG operators, who currently import the product from India, China and Italy to embrace this new development. In addition to land contribution, the Egyptian government is also providing regulatory and off-take support while all funding and financial support for the project is being sourced through private equity. The raw materials to be used for the production are to be sourced locally from SIDPEC, which is the largest petrochemical company in Egypt – they are expected to supply a significant portion of the raw materials for both manufacturing lines, he added. According to Runsewe, the groundbreaking for the project would be in September and expects production of LPG cylinders to start within nine months from the groundbreaking while the launch of CNG composite cylinders is 18 months.