Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN)-designate Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, during his screening by the Senate, lashed out at corrupt judges. He said they should be treated like other corrupt persons. He also called for a review of criminal laws. Lawyers and stakeholders have identified areas he should focus on. They spoke with ADEBISI ONANUGA. Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) designate Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad has said judges accused of corruption should not be accorded any special status. He said they should face the same treatment like other corrupt persons. Justice Muhammad, who spoke during his Senate screening, said the “pervasive corruption” in the judiciary was no surprise to him. “I always say that the judiciary is part and parcel of Nigeria and I am not surprised seeing some judges being corrupt, but they must be treated the same way other corrupt elements are treated,” he said. Responding to a question about how he intends to fight corruption in the judiciary, the CJN recalled that Bauchi State once had a Chief Judge during whose tenure corruption was a taboo in the judiciary. “There was no way you would see anything like corruption then. Unfortunately, when it came down to us, this happens virtually in all the states now, we started facing problems here and there. Let me say generally that corruption is inbuilt in the person who wants to be corrupted or the person who corrupts because if there is no corruption, then there is no person who will be corrupted. Left to me, they should face the same music”, he said. He recalled that in the early 60s and probably up to 1975, corruption was hardly heard of in the judiciary. Justice Muhammad lamented that “It can never happen again. It may be difficult for it to happen. We have to check ourselves because the problem is with us. So, we have to check ourselves. That is one of the ways we can sanitise the society”. He suggested that criminal laws should be amended to suit prevailing circumstances. According to him, existing criminal laws are no longer adequate, because corrupt persons, after spending a few years in prison, “will come out and go and enjoy their millions”. He added: “It is the responsibility of the legislature to see that it sanitises the society. Much as the judiciary will want to do their job, once we don’t have anywhere to rely on, or where what is given to us is limited by law, certainly, that is the end of it. There is nothing we can do but I believe the legislature, either at the national or state level has every power to legislate or to amend the legal system through legislation to overcome this. So, what we want is to see how we can sanitise the society. Gone are the days when we used to sleep with our eyes closed in an open air space, with your room opened. Nobody will enter your room to come and do anything”. Judiciary at a crisis point’ Observers of events in the judiciary believe that the remarks by Justice Muhammad have lent credence to the fact that the judiciary has gotten to a crisis point. They point at instances where justice has been made to favour the rich and the innocent made to suffer the guilt of another. To this group, there have existed over time, structural problems with the judiciary. They argued that these problems have been escalated by those who have used their position and money to take control of the courts and often times, made the system to favour the rich and powerful over the most vulnerable of the society. They regretted that the courts are also dominated by judges that are making it difficult and harder for vulnerable people to realise their rights through the judicial adjudication. They contended that this is the time the courts should rise and defend Nigeria’s constitutional democracy. But regrettably, according to them, the courts have failed and are making citizens fear for their ability and readiness to protect them and the rule of law. What can be done? With the confirmation of Justice Muhammad as the substantive CJN, what are the expectations of the society? What can be done and how best can the judiciary be cleansed and strengthened to bring back its  glorious past  of being the last hope of the people? Senior lawyers, civil society groups who have been at the forefront of campaigns to cleanse the judiciary, shared their thoughts on how to enjoy a cleaner and better  judiciary for the country. They include former Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) President Dr Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), University of Lagos (UNILAG) law teacher Wahab Shittu, Dr Fassy Yusuf, former NBA Second Vice-President Monday Ubani, Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON) Executive Director Gloria Egbuji and Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) president Malachy Ugwummadu. Agbakoba: implement Musdapher’s  programme To Dr Agbakoba, poor salaries of judges “are a key source of corruption.” He advised the CJN to immediately implement the Federal High Court decision in Agbakoba vs AGF which granted the National Judicial Commission (NJC) judicial independence, so as to get rid of the symptom of poorly paid Judges. Agbakoba also advised the CJN to embark on “a roots and branches reform of the judicial system by simply implementing the programme of the late CJN Musdapher Mohammed who I consider to be the most reform driven CJN ever but whose tenure was too short.” Restore public confidence in judiciary Shittu advised the CJN to “always lead by example and demand such impressive examples from other judges. “Secondly, the CJN should institutionalise a policy of zero tolerance for corruption across board. “Thirdly, he should banish impunity from our collective consciousness. He should insist on obedience for court orders. “Fourthly, he should put in place measures to avoid delays in our justice delivery system. “Fifth, the CJN should restore public confidence in the judiciary by emphasising competence, integrity, character and capacity in judicial appointments and justice delivery services “The CJN as the chair of NJC must overhaul the operations of NJC by enforcing consequences for judicial infractions.” The law lecturer also made a case for quality and sufficient infrastructure for the judiciary, adding that “of particular significance is enhancing the quality of the judiciary through the deployment of information communication technology, “In summary, the CJN must strengthen constitutionalism, respect for the rule of law, due process, accountability and transparency and enhance our democratic institutions. “The CJN as the symbol of justice in our country must deliver as a jurist and ensure that judges deliver too as jurists. The goal at all times should be the attachment of justice as the hallmark of his tenure.” Shittu surmised his advice to the CJN into 10 key points saying there must be: “measures to restore public confidence in the justice delivery system; measures to prevent delays in the administration of justice; measures to strengthen appointment procedures for judicial officers; measures to improve the quality of infrastructure and information communication technology in our courts; measures to enhance the disciplinary enforcement mechanisms of the judiciary; measures to boost training and retraining of our judicial officers and other stakeholders in the administration of justice; measures to deliver zero tolerance for corruption; measures to enhance constitutionalism and rule of law; measures to deepen our democratic institutions and measures to deliver on good governance through the instrumentalities of the judiciary.” Make third arm of govt instrument of social engineering’ According to Dr Yusuf, the CJN’s confirmation should provide an opportunity for the judicature to “redeem, regenerate and rejuvenate itself. “The ordinary citizen must have confidence in the justice system. “Society will be brutish and anomie will reign if Nigeria’s justice is seen to be for the highest bidder”, he argued. Yusuf advised the CJN to invest heavily in Information, Communication and Technology and ensure all processes and procedures are computerised. Anachronistic methods should be jettisoned. He said corruption that had “crept into the judiciary, must be eschewed like the plague. “Judiciary must cleanse itself of the Judases among them. Transparency, accountability and probity should be the creed of the judiciary under CJN Tanko Muhammad. There should be no sacred cow”. He further suggested that the country’s criminal justice should be rejigged emphasising that the burden of proof should now shift to the accused. ”Overall, CJN Tanko Mohammad should make a difference and ensure the third arm of government becomes a veritable instrument for social engineering and an arm that can effectively checkmate the other arms against recklessness and impunity. The society expects a lot from him and he cannot afford to be a disaster”, Yusuf stressed. ‘Decentralise Supreme Court’ Ubani urged the CJN to “roar into action” by tackling some of the debilitating factors hindering the smooth administration of justice, especially at the apex court. He said it was heart-warming that the Chief  Justice of Nigeria recognised corruption as part of the judicial problems that needs to be tackled seriously and urgently emphasising that the judiciary needs to cleanse itself of any corrupt element and  position itself for the task of dispensing pure and undiluted justice to all and sundry. According to him, “one of the greatest problems confronting litigants and lawyers today with regards to adjudication of cases at the apex court is the time it takes  whether it is on  civil or criminal matters for appeals to be heard. It is said that Justice delayed is justice denied, but we are all witnesses in this country to  the time it takes for matters pending before the Court of Appeal and most importantly before the Supreme Court to be heard on its merit except Election Petition Matters. “Llitigants have died waiting for justice that is never dispensed on time. My personal suggestion will be for the current Chief Justice of Nigeria to come up with an idea that will facilitate quicker dispensation of justice at the appellate jurisdictions. Timely Case-Management Report of judges at the lower bench to the National Judicial Council (NJC) has helped somehow to curb the excess delay of Justice at that level’’. Still at the lower level, more attention should be paid to the judges at the Federal High Courts. We are still experiencing some form of uncanny delay with some of the judges in the various states of the federation.Ubani advised that Judges of the National Industrial Courts all over the country should be encouraged more as they seem more organised and have done well in protecting the interests of litigants who genuinely approach them for justice with justiciable issues that deserve judicial remedy. He noted that the State High Court judges are  doing their best to administer justice to all and sundry but regretted that cases that are on appeal are often subjected to long delays especially at the Supreme Court level.”We should decentralise the Supreme Court according to the six geographical zones with same jurisdiction. If that is not possible, we should amend the constitution to accommodate about 150 judges at the apex court that should be on several panels to handle many pending appeals at the Supreme Court. ‘’The present method with less than 30 Justices at the Supreme Court is slowing down Justice delivery system at the apex court and the consequences to our entire legal system on peace and order is frightening. We need to be proactive with this approach if we sincerely desire to tackle the issue of delay at the apex court”, he contended. He urged the CJN to pay attention to the criminal administration of justice on the issue of detention without trial by the security agencies. According to him: “The constitutionally guaranteed right of bail upon arrest must be respected.The timeline within which to detain a citizen must also be respected (the 1999 Constitution as amended prescribed a maximum period of 48 hours). “On no account should any magistrate/judge make an order elongating the detention of a citizen without the knowledge of that citizen or where the law allows such an order to be obtained ex parte, then the Magistrate or the Judge as the case may be must give an order directing that such order prolonging the detention of the citizen be served on the citizen immediately to enable him seek redress if the order is unjustly obtained.” Ubani said the issue of discipline, both of the bench and bar, must be maintained remarking that the legal profession is built on discipline and  encouraged the current CJN to maintain it in order to attract the deserve respect from the citizens. ‘’The truth of the matter is that a lot needs to be done to strengthen the judiciary both administratively and constitutionally. We will advise that the CJN must ensure that welfare and comfort of the judges are guaranteed and judges must be given the confidence to be bold and fearless in dispensing justice. That can only come if the judiciary is truly independent and financially autonomous. ‘’The new CJN must ensure that this independence is guaranteed and the financial autonomy secured both at the states and at the Federal level”, he said. On her part, Egbuji called for a vibrant incorruptible judiciary devoid of  favouritism and political partisanship. She yearned for “a judiciary where rule of law and respect for people’s fundamental rights are respected irrespective of class,  political leanings and ethnicity; a judiciary where justice is not delayed to make it justice denied; a judiciary where the NJC is incorruptible and fearless in carrying out its constitutional duties.” Egbuji also stressed the need to ensure best the  judges and magistrates are recruited and trained. She said ethnicity and political leanings should be removed in the performance of judicial duties. She also urged the CJN to ensure and fight for  full independence of the judiciary. Ensure access to justice for all Ugwummadu said the weak and vulnerable in the society should have greater access to justice. He wants issues such as cost of litigation and technicalities such as locus standi addressed. The  CDHR President called for institutional reforms that would create capacity and empower state bodies such as the National Human Rights Commission, Legal Aid Council and others, to play greater roles in granting access to the public to justice. He enjoined the CJN to pursue and see through the campaign for greater independence of the judiciary. The CJN, he added, should  introduce greater transparency and inclusiveness in the recruitment processes of judges and justices aimed at greater  competence, integrity, legal  knowledge and established sense of justice. Furthermore, Ugwummadu urged the CJN to confront known and perceived corruption in the judiciary, institutionalise regular and continuing legal education and training for judges and judicial officers on new areas of the law and strengthening of disciplinary institutions and procedures to serve as deterrent.