Fidelity Bank Plc has rewarded over 6,000   customers to a tune of N2.6 billion in the last four years. This according to the bank is part of its continuous culture of giving back and rewarding its loyal customers. This was disclosed in Abuja on Tuesday by the Regional Manager of the bank (Abuja), Vanessa Mordi, during its campaign in Lugbe market. According to her, “In the last four years, over 6,000 customers have been rewarded under the Fidelity Personal Savings Scheme (FPSS), and over N2.6 billion has been given back to our customers across the country. “For us in Fidelity, we believe in giving back to the society. Lugbe is a place where we have a base. This has crystallized to the setting today for which three winners have emerged. It is something that we will continue to do from time to time to keep our customers and us close together. “We want to reach out to our customers and find out what their needs are and what we can do to meet it.” She further added, “If the GDP of our country has to change, we cannot do without Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs). As a financial institution, we have come up with products to support and help SMEs grow. “We have also set up the ‘Manage SME Desk’ to advise small and medium scale businesses in their business activities.” Three winners emerged during the draw; two customers won N500,000 each while the third winner (a child) operating the sweet Account won the sum of N150,000. Once you have an account opened with the bank – either a Savings Account or a Sweet Account (children’s account), and you operate it very well, you are a prospective winner. Customers can do this with as low as N10,000. According to a winner in the raffle draw, Mrs. Nneoma Agatha Nmadu, “I started using Fidelity in 2017. I operate other banks as well, but in Lugbe here, Fidelity is the best. I was not surprised to be picked as a winner in the draw because I know they never disappoint.” Another winner, Mrs. Stella Onuoha, expressed her delight and surprise that the bank sticks to its promise of rewarding loyalty. The third winner, Ms Deborah Enedubiojo, who operated the children’s account, went away with the sum of N150,000.