It was the famous radio broadcaster Earnest Okonkwo, that named Christian Chukwu, the chairman, during his playing days for Rangers International Football Club and the national team, known back them as the Green Eagles. He named him so, because of his commanding organisational ability as captain of the teams, especially in the midfield. While playing his role effectively, he also keeps an eye on what his compatriots were doing, and gets them to play their roles. In short, he was a master synchronizer and led the national team to win her first Nation’s Cup in 1980. Chukwu later became the national coach of the Green Eagles who have become Super Eagles, after assisting Clemens Westerhof to win the Nations Cup in 1994. With Westerhof, they produced a dream team which arguably was an equal if not better than the head-swelling time of Chukwu as a member of the original Green Eagles. Chukwu had also variously been the chief coach or technical adviser of Enugu Rangers, where his career had blossomed in the 1970s and 80s, as a player. Recently, the chairman whose names when translated to English means ‘Christian God’ fell on hard on times. In his words: “I had many complications and I couldn’t walk.” He went on: “When I heard Otedola brought out money for my treatment, I marvelled because in my circle, we didn’t know him before then. We have people with us but maybe they forgot or it is not in their character to help.” So it was billionaire business mogul Femi Otedola who came to the rescue of the chairman, when he fell on hard times. Last weekend, the Super Eagles almost flew into the 2019 Nation’s Cup in Egypt, if not for the ambush by desert warriors of Algeria. The young lads who represented our nation were not given much chance at the beginning, but they have made it to the loser’s final, otherwise known as third place match. Since they lost the semi-final match against Algeria, I have listened to some commentators, who complained they were not super enough. Quite a number had harsh words for the coach. One complaint from some of the commentators that ties back to Chairman Chukwu’s recent hard times, is what some have said about Mikel Obi’s inclusion in the current national team. Some commentators on the radio were so mean in their commentaries and condemnation of the inclusion of Mikel that you will think that Mikel was just a meddlesome interloper in the national team, instead of the captain of the team. Assuming without conceding that Mikel played badly in the two matches he played, the reaction from the commentaries did not betray any emotional attachment to the ‘good old days’ when he played the pivotal role as the engine room of the team. Since playing against the little god, Lionel Messi of Argentina in the under aged tournament, Mikel has been a constant star for Nigerian national teams. So, assuming Mikel has fallen on bad times, those commentators prefer he should be ignored in his travails like Chairman Chukwu. While the national team is a swivelling chair, as such players should come and go, there should be orderliness in getting key players out of the team. Mikel has been a key national player and has won laurels for the country, and so should be accorded some respects. Even the younger players in the national team recognise his stabilising and mentor role in this tournament. The coach would know when Mikel’s time is up, and a befitting farewell testimonial match should be played to bid him farewell. Also worrisome is the faith of most national icons who have brought joy to the country, either in football or in theatre. A number of them have had to rely on philanthropy like Chairman Chukwu to survive debilitating health challenge. At such times, it is either state governors use public funds to come to the rescue of these national icons, or a public spirited individual like Femi Otedola use private resources to save the day. While philanthropy is something this writer appreciates and praises, it is scary that but for such interventions, these unfortunate national icons would be left to die miserably. Indeed, a few have died because of the absence of resources to access medical care. But while sparing a thought for those whose past deeds draw public attention to their plight, what about those who despite their labour of love for country, did not have the limelight of media and as such would not draw any sympathy if they fall on hard times? There are many in this category, who have paid their dues, and if they have overbearing health challenge, would not draw any public sympathy talk less of gaining such huge intervention from any source. Lucky Chairman Chukwu, was in such a bad situation before Otedola’s intervention. According to Chukwu: “If you saw me before I left for London, you won’t believe I’ll be here talking to you. I think I won’t be making a mistake if I say after God, it’s Otedola in my life.” So a man whose surname shows he appreciates God immensely, is saying without equivocation, that next after God is his benefactor, Femi Otedola. While every person of goodwill should appreciate the kind gesture of Femi Otedola, every Nigerian of age should worry that but for such a gesture, the great Christian Chukwu may not be around us anymore. Those who have occupied positions of authority in our country, especially executive authority at the state and national levels should be concerned at the nation they have bequeathed the rest of Nigerians. Of course, the answer to such an embarrassing helplessness is a national health insurance scheme. Without a health insurance scheme, there are very few persons who can shell out N36,635,000.00, which is what Oedola spent on Chairman Chukwu, or even a fraction of it, to treat themselves. This writer definitely cannot afford such a humongous resources, even though a few people who read this column, once in a while call to ask for financial assistance, believing that to have a media space is to have money. Tragically the National Health Insurance Scheme, which the federal government instituted as a solution to this kind of challenge, turned into a cesspool of corruption, with those who have been in charge in the recent past, helping themselves as much their evil heart desire. As the national team was a rainbow colour of Nigerians without any quota system, it is also instructive that Otedola, a Yoruba man did not worry about where Chukwu comes from before helping him. Otedola’s kind gesture confirms that our country of many nationalities can do great exploits, if we all work together.