The Imo State government has focused attention on ridding the state of poliomyelitis and infant mortality. OKODILI NDIDI reports Antenatal and post-natal risk factors have been largely to blame for infant mortality in Imo state, resulting in avoidable deaths and deformities. The state has also been grappling with reported cases of polio and other life-threatening ailments among infants, leaving it with an unenviable status. It was therefore a huge relief for parents, especially mothers, when the state government has declared war against Polio and infant mortality. Wife of the governor, Ebere Ihedioha, while flagging-off the 2019 National Immunisation Plus Days (NIMPDs) campaign at Umuelemai in the Isiala Mbano Local Government Area of the state, disclosed that the state government is committed to eradicating Polio and infant mortality in the state. She said that Poliomyelitis was a disease affecting mainly children under 5 years of age and among the top four child killer diseases. According to her, the state government has procured equipment and paid counterpart fund for the Polio vaccinations to demonstrate its commitment to tackling health challenges in the state. She said, “To further demonstrate the commitment of this present government in tackling health challenges, the government released funds for the procurement of emergency cold chain equipment and accessories to ensure adequate vaccine storage during this campaign and beyond. “The state government has also approved and released counterpart funds for the smooth and seamless implementation of this campaign.” She tasked parents to ensure that their kids are vaccinated within the period, adding that the benefits of the immunisation cannot be undermined. She said, “The benefits of immunisation cannot be overemphasised. The mortality and morbidity prevented by immunisation translates into long term savings and potential economic growth for developing countries. “We cannot continue to live with the fear of immunisation. A great number of families are still opposed to Immunisation and some of our remote communities are still inaccessible. Hence the need for us to do all we can to reach every community and enlighten families and to reach every nook and cranny of the state.”