The president of Erikpejaiye Otoikhian (EO) Foundation, Professor Cyril Otoikhian, has called on state governments in the country to enact laws criminalising marriages involving people living with sickle cell anemia or incompatible genotypes within their states. He said this at the skill acquisition and public lecture organised by EO Foundation in partnership with Police Officers’ Wives Association (POWA) at Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. The professor of genetics said with the level of pain, oppression, abuse and exploitation that persons with sickle cell anemia go through, it has become necessary for state governments to intervene and come out with laws that will make it an offence for persons or institutions that conduct marriage with persons with sickle cell disorder. He noted that it is sad that Nigeria remains the number one sickle cell endemic country in Africa with 150,000 children born with the disorder every year, adding that this is unacceptable. Although sickle cell disorder has no cure, it is preventable and avoidable. While commending some religious institutions that have made it mandatory for their church members intending to marry to go for their genotype test so as to ascertain their compatibility, Otoikhian said it is a source of encouragement for activists working to stem the tide of sickle cell anemia in the country. Stressing that sickle cell disorder has no cure, he warned that medical practitioners or traditionalists deceiving intending couples that there is cure for sickle cell disorder in order to achieve a pecuniary interest is merely fueling the crisis because there is no cure for the disorder anywhere in the world. Preventing it is the surest way to reduce the incidence of sickle cells disorder in the country, the EO foundation president said. The professor lamented that it is the women that take the larger burden of care for children with sickle cell disorders, adding that creating awareness about it among women and prospective couples is therefore necessary to relieve the society of avoidable crisis that often attends the birth of children born with the disorder. He noted that no matter the love that exists between intending couples, if they enter into the marriage and see the impact of the sickle cell in the body of their children, their joy will die. Speaking to reporters at the event, welfare officer of POWA, Alausa, Ele-Ojo Vera Saudi, said the programme is an eye-opener for her, promising that she would use the information to help others, especially her own children, make informed decisions on who they want to marry. In his response, ACP Ojajuni said that the support he gave the EO Foundation to host its advocacy programme in the police barracks is because the leadership of the police appreciates the importance of education and information on health matters and how these can help change the lives of security operatives. Ojajuni, who was formerly police public relations officer in the Lagos command, said he was delighted that his colleagues in the security service of the nation have been made to know more about sickle cell.   