As the Kaduna State High Court on Thursday adjourned hearing in the application for permission to travel to India for medical attention filed by the Shi’ites leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zinat, to July 29, 2019, his followers have alleged that their leader is being poisoned in detention. The leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) and his wife had applied to the court seeking to travel and seek medical attention in view of their failing health condition while in detention. However, the Free Zakzaky Committee of the IMN in a statement it issued after the court sitting accused the court of failing to stand for truth and justice against tyranny and impunity. This was also as they alleged that, their leader was obviously being poisoned in detention, claiming that, “Zakzaky has more than twenty times the toxic levels of lead poison in his body”. The State Director of Public Prosecution, Mr. Dari Bayero, who briefed newsmen, shortly after the hearing, said the adjournment was sequel to an application by the team of Counsel prosecuting the IMN leader. He said that the team requested for time to examine the medical reports that accompanied IMN leader’s application and authenticate its geniuses before putting up their argument before the court. Justice Darius Khobo granted the request and adjourned till July 29, to give time to the state counsel who is prosecuting the substantive suit against the IMN leader and his wife Zinat. It would be recalled however that the IMN leader brought the application before the court seeking permission to travel to Medanta Hospital, New Delhi, India for medical attention following his failing health condition. El-Zakzaky in the application said if granted the permission to travel, he and his wife would return to Nigeria as soon as they are discharged upon satisfied medical report. The IMN leader has been in detention since 2015 is standing trial over allegations of culpable homicide, unlawful assembly and disruption of public peace among other charges in another court. Justice Gideon Kurada, who was handling the case, on April 25, adjourned the trial of the IMN leader indefinitely. The indefinite adjournment was to enable the judge serve on the panel of the Presidential and National Assembly Elections Petitions Tribunal in Yobe.
Continue on Page 2