Ondo State Police Command on Monday said some arrests have been made concerning the brutal killing of 58-year-old Mrs. Funke Olakunri. The command, however, kept their identities under wrap. Police spokesman Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police (SP), added policemen were still in the forest to smoke out other suspects. Joseph said the command would not relent until the perpetrators were apprehended and prosecuted. The daughter of Afenifere leader Pa Reuben Fasoranti was killed last Friday by gunmen on Ore-Sagamu road. Former Imo State and senator representing Imo West Rochas Okorocha, a pan Igbo group, Ala-Igbo Development Foundation (ADF), Deji of Akure Oba Aladetoyinbo  Aladelusi and lawmaker representing Ondo South, Senator Nicholas Tofowomo have condemned the killing of Mrs. Olakunri. They spoke separately yesterday while commiserating with the Afenifere leader. Okorocha, who made the call in a condolence letter to the Afenifere leader, described her death as worrisome and absurd. He called on the citizens to unite against insecurity, irrespective of tribe and religion. He said the nation is currently going through trying times and “what every patriotic Nigerian should be looking out for is unity of purpose against this disturbing issue of insecurity”. The Prof. Uzodinma Nwala-led ADF, in a statement issued by its spokesman, Comrade Abia Onyike, lamented that the “killing of this elegant and notable woman, allegedly by  suspected  herdsmen, is not only disastrous and tragic, but a culmination and continuation of the on-going wastage of human lives in Nigeria, which has acquired a dangerous and dreadful proportion”. The group posited: “Whether the killing was perpetrated by herdsmen or armed robbers or bandits/kidnappers is not the issue, the fact in issue is that the ugly incident is a reflection of Nigeria’s slide into Armageddon, a situation where life has become  cheap and no day passes without  news about the massacre of scores of Nigerian citizens by the marauding terrorists. It called on the Federal Government  to sit up and take urgent and sincere steps to live up to his oath of office to protect the lives of Nigerian citizens, from the stranglehold  of  merchants of death. Tofowomo called on the government to devise innovation and technology in tackling the country’s insecurity. The senator, who spoke against the spate of killings by criminals in Ondo South and Nigeria, urged security agents to bring to find the killers of Mrs. Olakunri. To Oba Aladetoyinbo, the untimely demise of their illustrious daughter had dealt a big blow on the family of Pa Fasoranti and the entire Akure Kingdom. The monarch, in a statement by his spokesman, Micheal Adeyeye, condemned  the gruesome murder and the continuing killings, kidnappings and maiming by suspected herdsmen in the state and the nation at large. Oba Aladetoyinbo noted that the killing, kidnapping and other criminal activities had continued unabated, thereby leaving  the citizenry to live in fear and anxiety.