For strictly personal reasons, I had initially thought I would not comment on the allegation of rape levelled against the Senior Pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Abuja, Biodun Fatoyinbo, by Mrs. Busola Dakolo. In this part of the world, you don’t speak ill of the dead. Similarly, you have to watch what you say where men of God are concerned. Otherwise, people will remind you of the admonition: touch not my anointing, and do my prophet no harm. Mrs Dakolo had claimed the man of God raped her when she was 18. She is now married and her husband has been solidly behind her in this matter, so as to ensure that girls in churches are not abused the way they claimed his wife had been abused. Indeed, the matter has been trending in the social and mainstream media in the last few weeks. I decided to hold my peace meanwhile to see how the police would treat the matter. Of course we have seen the way some of the members of the church have reacted to it; standing by their spiritual leader. Even the Abuja chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has decidedly fumbled in the matter the way it has stood by Fatoyinbo. It is however heartwarming that the national CAN is more cerebral in its intervention. But I cannot continue to hold my cool with the detention of Abimbola Adelakun, a columnist with The Punch, on the church premises, last week Sunday. Adelakun said she was in the church to continue her research on Pentecostal churches. Somehow, some members of the church recognised her and informed the security men who promptly arrested and detained her , on the grounds that she had come to spy on the church. Her entreaties that she should be allowed to leave were rebuffed. Rather, she was later transferred to the police station in Asokoro, where the policemen there threatened to charge her with ‘criminal trespass’! Pray, what is ‘criminal trespass’ in a church? The last time I checked, a church is supposed to be a public place where people who believe in Jesus Christ as their personal Lord and saviour go to ‘speak’ with their creator. As a public place, methinks it should be open to virtually anybody who decides to go in there for this purpose. There should be no holds barred; except of course in these days of terrorism when it has become expedient for churches, like other public places in the country, to be wary of people coming in, ostensibly to worship. They can now screen people for explosives and be sure they have nothing on their bodies that could bring harm the way of others who have truly come to pray and dance before God. The only other reason that may be used to bar someone from church is if he is known to have broken any internal rules or regulations of the church, the punishment of which would have been clearly spelt out in the church’s rules and regulations. But for a church to be on the lookout for journalists, or to even know and isolate one for detention and harassment is, to me, mildly put, ungodly. But it is just one of those impunities going on in some of these worship places, particularly churches, big or small. In the case of the smaller churches, illiteracy and ignorance could be the driver of such impunity while in the mega churches like COZA, the impunity is fuelled by the typical Nigerian ‘big man syndrome’. What has COZA to hide? Or, what is COZA hiding to warrant sniffing for journalists and shutting them out? If the Dakolos, with all the public sympathy they are enjoying, and with their clout in society, could experience this kind of treatment with our police force, which, when it should be trying to investigate the matter professionally rather chose to be intimidating the alleged victim, then we can understand why many cases of rape are unreported and will likely go unreported in the country for a long time to come. It is just that we are not yet a serious country. In very serious nations, the wages of rape would have been made so severe that only people who are ready to spend the rest of their lives in jail would go near it. Because our laws are too lax, the police and even the courts demand all manner of impossibilities to prove that rape has been committed. This is why the crime has assumed an epidemic dimension, with very old people, some of them nearing their graves, having carnal knowledge of five-year-old girls. Hardly would the newspapers not report rape stories on any day; some of them as bizarre as they can be. Yet, the courts would be asking for blood-stained pants, they want to see whether traces of semen could still be visible hours or even days after the crime had been committed. In police stations, the police turn it to wall-clock joke by asking all manner of questions, like whether the victim was screaming or moaning when the act was going on (in other words, whether she was enjoying it or it was a painful experience), etc. If the instant Dakolo/Fatoyinbo case gets to court, we are going to be treated to some of these embarrassing scenarios. I must confess the Nigeria Police Force has not handled this matter satisfactorily. Apparently, the force was jolted from its inertia in a tweetthat the president’s wife, Aisha Buhari, sent to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed A. Adamu:  “Attention IGP. #SayNoToRape, #JusticeForRapeVictims, #SayNoToIntimidation”. It was not until this tweet that the police appeared set to step into the matter. It should be stressed that, tempting as it is to want to believe the story as told by the Dakolos, especially with some other people coming out to say they had a similar experience with the pastor, the case still deserves to be thoroughly investigated. It could be true; and it could also be true that some people who are envious of Pastor Fatoyinbo’s success story are all out to bring him down. There are randy pastors all over the place just as we have peer envy all over the place, not excluding churches and other places of worship. As a matter of fact, these were part of the reasons why I decided to reserve my comment on the matter until this aspect of a reporter being fished out in church and detained surfaced. One can only imagine what could have happened to her if she had not quickly sent words out about what she was going through immediately she was arrested by the church security men. Sensing that the matter had gone viral on the social media, the church people then told her that she should inform The Punch that she was not arrested by the security men, as a condition for dropping the charge (criminal trespass?) against her. She therefore sent words out again that: “I’m aware of the info abt my arrest at COZA today. I wasn’t arrested. Earlier, I sent out an image bcos I was concerned when pulled aside by the protocol dept for questioning. Thanks to everyone who has been concerned about me. I am sorry for all the misinformation out there.” Adelakun had apparently been well schooled on the necessity to follow instructions in such tight situations when one is between life and death. However, she reversed herself when it appeared the coast was clear and everyone had been aware of her whereabouts. So, the question of her disappearing without trace cannot arise. “But the security men at the church detained me. They pulled me out of the service. They said they wanted to question me and they didn’t let me go. When they saw the tweet and report online, they then took me to the police station. They said it had become a criminal case and they had to go to the police station to resolve it because people had been coming to their church to write stories. I told them I was not writing, that I am a researcher, this is what I do, I go from church to church but they said we had to go to the police station.” So, since when has writing stories about a church become a crime or an offence? At any rate, why would a church want to stop people writing stories about it, if it had nothing to hide? Why should a columnist go through the pains of explaining that she is researching into Pentecostalism when inside what is supposed to be a sanctuary of praise? There are many questions to answer. Were the security men who detained Adelakun acting on instructions? Were they acting in conformity with the body language of their senior pastor, because, sometimes, some bosses can say everything without saying anything; that is, without opening their mouth? Or, were they only being overzealous? Whatever it was, it is perhaps the sign that things are no longer at ease at COZA. Seems COZA is no longer as cozy as before. It is something else when a church begins to screen people not for terrorism, but for coming to write stories about the church. We should thank Aisha Buhari for waking up the police from their slumber over this grievous issue. The rest of us should keep the matter in focus until the end.  We must ensure justice for both sides.