The Urhobos are one of the major ethnic groups in Delta State who live north of the Niger River of Delta and are grouped into autonomous villages and groups called clans, each with common ancestor. The Urhobo have two distinct sculptural traditions of nearly life-size wood figures, one representing spirit and the other actual or myth ancestors. To identify Urhobo figures as either spirits or ancestors can be difficult unless the context is known. However, written descriptions in photography of Urhobo figures suggest that this figure represents a spirit. The Urhobo believes that singular and collective spiritual forces exist in nature: In water, trees, plants land or air. These spirits known as Edjo are pervasive and their powers encompass all of Urhobo life. A community may have several different kinds of Edjo, although one may recognise it as the spirit of the town. Wood carvings are the physical manifestation of these spirits. A single shrine building  may comprise of a dozen of carved Edjo figures presided over by elaborate hierarchy of titled priests/princess, the spiritual leaders of Edjo cult. This figure such as this might be described as the “wife” of a large male Edjo figure. Sometime a wife is shown nursing a child. This figure depicts one standing and facing frontally with arms held rigidly at its sides. The feet are slightly apart and planted firmly on  the base. The face displays vertical keloids on the swelling forehead, the nose is angular, and the jaw jutting and displays an open mouth with two rows of bared teeth. The chest swells and two well formed triangular – shaped breasts are positioned to emphasise the symmetry of the body. Like figures from Eastern Nigeria, this one has a herniated navel a sign of beauty. Stomach, chest and shoulders are decorated with diamond shaped scarification. The figure is depicted wearing elaborate hat or coiffure. This large figure represents ancestor, a founding person in the community whose power and fame has elevated him/her to the status of Edjo (Spirit). Edjo are regularly offered sacrifices to appease them and the Edjo r’ Ovwodo (spirit of the town) has annual festivals in its honour. The carved necklace and bracelets are probably meant to represent ivory, as sign of wealth and high status. The white chalk (Orhe) that appears on the eyelid may be a sign of purity. 