Kellogg Tolaram Nigeria Limited (KTNL) has presented scholarship to 50 winners of its Kellogg’s Superstars contest. At the presentation ceremony of the awards to the young winners, majority of whom were invited to Lagos along with their parents, Kellogg Tolaram General Manager, Mrs. Vani Malik, said the society was still battling with the challenge of huge population of primary school pupils who are out of school. According to her, the challenge was one of the reasons for the Kellogg’s Superstars scholarship  as a way of contributing its quota to the economic growth of Nigeria. “Kellogg’s Superstars programme follows a holistic developmental approach, which begins with making sure children have the best start to their day by getting a complete breakfast option through Kellogg’s various cereal variants while also encouraging them to identify and improve their inherent academic skills in the area of writing,” she stated. Director-General, Office of Education Quality, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, extolled the firm’s gesture which, according to her, has touched the lives of the ordinary Nigerian child. Soyombo said: “I want to specifically pour encomium on the directors of Kellogg’s Tolaram, imbued with rare foresight aimed particularly at making the whole child, by not only rewarding pupils through scholarships, but by also investing heavily in educational infrastructure, educational partnerships, literacy commitment and all other primary needs that ensures brighter opportunities for the Nigerian child”. She said Kellogg’s Tolaram essay competition and reward initiative was borne out of passion and will contribute to the ever-expanding educational status of the state and the country. National Association of Private Schools (NAPPS) President, Lagos State Chapter, Mr. Wasiu Adumadeyin, who spoke at the event, said the impact of the initiative would be far reaching on the economy. He said this is so, especially when corporate organisations get involved in educational support at the elementary stage where foundation becomes undeniably important. Adumadeyin also pledged the association’s support for any organisation as such that is geared towards promoting a better tomorrow for the Nigerian future leaders.