After an integrity test appears to have cleared a fuel station accused of contaminating water sources in a community in Niger State, the residents’ fears persist. JUSTINA ASISHANA reports When the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) announced that the Jagaba fuel station in Takogi community in Doko Ward of Lavun Local Government Area of Niger State, which was accused of being the source of contaminating water sources in the community, has passed the integrity test carried out by it, it was met with mixed feelings. The operators of the petrol station heaved a sigh of relief during the announcement as it seemed to have been carrying a load for over four years since it was accused of being responsible for the contamination. While the community is at a loss as to where the source of the contamination may be coming from, they are still battling with this problem which, if not addressed quickly, may lead to a health epidemic in the community. The people of Takogi community last year cried out over the contamination of boreholes and hand-dug wells in the communities which have been contaminated for over three years as they claimed that over 150 houses in the community were affected. The report was carried by The Nation newspaper titled, “Our water smells like petrol” and “Community raises alarm over contamination of water sources”, after learning that a letter of  “Appeal for Urgent Attention by the People of Takogi in Lavun Local Government Area” which was sent to the office of the State Governor on the issue had not been attended to. The report brought the plight of the people to the general public and brought in a number of departments and agencies which waded in to intervene into the case and prevent a breakdown of law and order in the community as there were threats flying high by the owner of the fuel station and community which caused tension in the community. To this end, the community had visits by the Niger State Environmental Protection Agency (NISEPA), the Public Complaint Commission, the National Environmental Standard Regulations Enforcement Agency (NISREA) and the offices of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) from Minna, Abuja and Kaduna, all these agencies sought to bring an end to the contamination and possibly pinpoint the source of the contamination. Being the only fuel station in the vicinity, it is not farfetched for all eyes to be fixed on Jagaba petrol station as the source of the contamination especially as most of the water from the water sources smelled like petrol. This made the community to urge the various agencies to thoroughly investigate the filling station in order to be sure the problem is not coming from there. The various agencies then recommended the filling station carry out an integrity test on its tanks in order to be sure that there is no underground seepage which may be causing the contamination. After much haggling by the owner of the filling station, Mohammed Dan-Asebe Jagaba carried away a tank based, according to him, on the recommendation of the Public Complaint Commission but done without the supervision of any of the intervening agencies. However, after other meetings, the filling station was once again ordered by DPR to carry out another integrity test as they said they were not aware of the previous tests it claimed to have carried out. Delivering the verdict of the integrity test carried out by DPR licensed consultant, Helgatech Engineering Technology and witnessed by all relevant stakeholders, on the the 9th of July, during a stakeholders meeting at the DPR office in Minna, the Department Operations Controller, Engr Abdullahi Isah Jankara said all the tanks in the Jagaba filling station passed the integrity test as none were found to be leaking. He urged the community to extend its dragnet to other spots within the community and put the accusation that the filling station was responsible for the contamination charging the state agency on environment NISEPA to take up the challenge for more discoveries of the problem. “The issue of contamination of water sources was reported to DPR some months back, other agencies like the Public Complainant Commission, NISEPA, NISREA and the media were involved. When we met last, we decided to carry out an integrity test which was done last week. The result of the integrity test carried out on all the tanks in Jagaba filling station showed that none of them were leaking. “As at the time we did the test, we noticed none of the tanks were leaking, however, we do not know if the tank taken away by the owner was leaking, that is not our responsibility. It may have come from Jagaba but from the time we did the integrity test, we noticed the problem is not from there. I can only take responsibility for the time we did the integrity test. “You need to put the issue of Jagaba filling station being responsible for the contamination to rest. Is there is any area that there have been black market operation in the past, you can call our attention to it and we will come to investigate but for now, the case is closed from our end.” However, while the integrity test may have been done, the community is still crying out for a solution to their contaminated sources of water, they are calling on the relevant agencies and government to intervene and save them from impending epidemic. Speaking with The Nation after the stakeholders meeting, the Community Representative led by Mr. Samuel Yisa Saidu lamented the danger on the health status of his people who have been drinking the contaminated water for years saying there may be a possible outbreak of epidemic in the community. He called for the tank removed by the station owner without any integrity test carried out on it saying there is need for that tank to be investigated but however said that the community respects the judgment of DPR, “and if DPR says that the source of contamination is not from the filling station following the integrity test done, the community is ready to go with their judgment.” Yisa pointed out that the community is still suffering over getting clean water and would continue to suffer until government take proactive steps in providing an alternative source of water for the community, “Our water still smell petrol. The rainy season has begun and it will now get worse. Government must save the lives of the people before an epidemic breaks out in the community. The relevant agencies and well-meaning individuals need to step in to save the people from this impending danger and provide the people with alternative source of water.” He further called on the state ministry of health to conduct tests that would ascertain the health status of the people in the community who have been consuming the contaminated water for more than four years.” A visit to the community showed revealed that the people are expecting more from government to step into the case which they have been suffering from for over four years. A member of the community, Elisha Jiya said government need to step into this and feel the sufferings of the people adding that no community should be made to live and suffer this way. He said that the people in the community still have to walk over 500 meters to fetch water which they use for their daily activity. The representatives of the involved agencies in their separate remarks agreed that there is contamination especially now that the level of water on ground has increased then called on the quick intervention of the state government by doing the needful in that community. The question on everyone’s lips now is, “After the integrity test, what next? What would be done to bring an end to the contamination of water sources in this community? Would government, especially the relevant ministries that is supposed to be involved, continue to keep quiet over this issue? Who will end the suffering of this community?