Chief Executive Officer of iCreate Africa, Bright Jaja,  has been listed in this year’s Forbes 30 under 30 list. Forbes Africa released the fifth edition of its 30under30 list of the continent’s most accomplished young personalities. 120 game-changers in Business, Tech, Creative and Sports were featured in the popular magazine. Jaja represents the promising Nigerian youth with the mindset to challenge the status quo and disrupt the existing system, thus creating innovative ways to solve the high youth unemployment in Nigeria through his company. He started carving a niche for himself from his early teens and exercised persistence regardless of prevailing oppositions. In 2016, he founded iCreate Africa, a hub for skill excellence and development based in Abuja. As a social enterprise, it promotes the need for a renewed focus on deriving the benefits of technical skills through skill competitions, grassroots community projects and training. The company has hosted various empowering programme including the first and biggest technical and vocational skill competition in Africa, the ICreate Skill Fest in October 2018 and the company has directly empowered over 150 skilled workers with startup funds, training and international exposure. It has also impacted over 100,000 people across the continent by changing the societal perception affecting technical skills and driving investment in technical and vocational skills education and training from both public and private sector. This year, iCreate Africa is hosting regional Technical and Vocational Skills Competitions across geopolitical zones. This is coming after a successful outing in Kaduna on 26-27th April for the iCreate Northern Region Skill Competition, iCreate Africa will be hosting the next regional skills competition for the South East zone in Enugu on the 19-20th of July 2019 to commemorate the UN World Youth Skills Day. Various skill trades from Building and Construction, ICT, Creative Arts and Fashion and Hospitality will be featured. The winners will compete at the Finals in Lagos on 4-5th December 2019 to stand the chance of becoming the iCreate Skill Champion 2019 in their respective trades. Benefits from the competition include cash prizes, training and internship programs, endorsement deals, start-up support amongst others.  