A 19-year-old Secondary School leaver, Ibrahim Ahmad, was on Thursday arrested by the Kano State Police Command, over the kidnap and drugging to death of a five-year-old Primary school pupil, identified as Ahmad Ado, popularly known as Sayyid. The suspect, alongside his accomplices, Abdulmajid Mohammed and  Musa Sunusi, both 18 years old, hurriedly buried the victim in an uncompleted building at Sheka area of the ancient City of Kano. Briefing newsmen in Kano, shortly after Police operatives exhumed the victim’s body from a shallow grave, the State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, said the police received a report  that one Ahmad, Ado, five years old of Karkasara Quarters, Kano has been kidnapped by unknown persons at Ma’ahat Nursery and Primary School, Karkasara, Kano. According to him, the kidnappers, subsequently contacted the family of their victim, demanding  a ransom of N50 million before they will release the kidnapped boy. Following the tip off, the Police boss, said a team of Operation Puff Adder detectives from Anti-Kidnapping Squad, promptly swung into action, using technical intelligence and arrested the principal suspects, one Ibrahim Ahmad, aged 19 , of Darmanawa quarters, Kano. On interrogation, according to the Iliyasu, two of his accomplice, Abdulmajid Mohammed and Musa Sunusi, both 18 years old of Sheka quarters, Kunmbotso Local Government Area of Kano State, were instantly nabbed. During interrogation, according the Police boss, the suspected confessed to have over drugged the victim after kidnapping him, which subsequently led to his death at Sheka Sabuwa Abuja Quarters, Kumbotso Local Government Area. ”The suspects went ahead and buried the boy in a shallow grave at an uncompleted building. The scene was visited by the Commissioner of Police, including a team of Forensic experts.” Meanwhile, the CP, said, investigation has commenced, adding that on completion the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution. In an interview, the prime suspect, Ibrahim Ahmad, admitted to committing the crime, adding that he was a first offender.