He is a great leader, a lover of peace, philanthropist, believer of transparency and welfarism of his sub-ordinates. He does everything possible to improve life of the masses. These are some of the encomiums bestowed on the Corps Commander/CEO, Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) Prince Abdulfatai Olaseni Ogunyemi, recently as he marked his 54th birthday at Abeokuta, his hometown. The programme featured prayers, visitations especially to the Palace of Alake of Egbaland l, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo to receive the royal father’s prayer while entertainment of guests took place at his compound in Ibara Housing Estate, Abeokuta. Alhaji Ogunyemi was born to one of the royal families in Abeokuta. He joined the race of campaigning and fighting against road traffic and crashes in Nigeria as far back as in the 70s. He joined Red Cross Society as a primary school pupil to assist accident victims in first aid treatment. This prompted him to join Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) at inception in 1987/1988 but opted out to acquire more knowledge in the field of Transport Studies in order to qualify as a core professional in road traffic management. He later had a stint as a lecturer in transport safety, planning and management before finally taking a career at the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) in the year 2000/2001 as the Pioneer Head, Road Traffic Safety and Public Education.  But he joined Ogun State Civil Service on August 4, 2005 as pioneer acting General Director of Planning, Research and Statistics at TRACE. Ogunyemi has contributed so immensely to the TRACE operational and managerial structure and training of the pioneering staffs. He is the brain behind the Corps’ approved gazetted notice of various offence sheet tickets, the specified fines and charges as regulated in the repeal of 2006, 2009 and 2016 regulations. Ogunyemi brought the agency into limelight at the Global Road Safety Workshop organised by United Nations at the International Conference Centre in Ghana in November 2006. The transport consultant with over 25 years of experience had facilitated and presented several seminal papers on road safety and traffic management in various seminars or workshops within and outside the country. He was elevated to the position of Deputy Corps Commander on September 24, 2008, he rose to the post of Acting TRACE Corps Commander on April 1, 2015, the post he held for eight months before he was confirmed as the substantive career Corps Commander/Chief Executive Officer on November 30, 2015. Ogunyemi holds M.Sc Transport and B.Sc Accounting. In his enduring accomplishments he was a member of various professional bodies in Nigeria and abroad.  He had also received several awards of excellence in road traffic and safety management across the globe.