Senator representing Kaduna Central, Uba Sani has ascribed his alleged criticism of President Muhammadu Buhari’s reappointment of Malam Abba Kyari as handiwork of mischief makers bent on portraying him in bad light, noting that such is not in his character. Senator Uba Sani stated categorically that, he never criticized President Buhari’s appointment In a statement signed by his Chief Constituency Officer, Arch. Abubakar Abubakar, the Senator said, that the posts on the social media by one Shehu Dan Takara and his cohorts is coming from a senatorial candidate who lost to him in the last general elections. According to Senator Sani, “The attention of Distinguished Senator Uba Sani has been drawn to posts on Facebook and WhatsApp chat groups by one Shehu Dan Takara and his accomplices. In the said posts, Senator Sani was alleged to have blasted our dear President over his reappointment of Abba Kyari as Chief of Staff. “This is mischief taken too far. Investigation has revealed that the posts were fabricated and ascribed to the Distinguished Senator by an aide of a defeated senatorial candidate in the 2019 Kaduna Central Senatorial elections to bring the Distinguished Senator to public ridicule and odium and portray him as disloyal to the President and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “‘The defeated senatorial candidate hopes that through this subterfuge he will warm himself back to the heart of Mr. President and possibly make a return from the political wilderness. “We wish to state emphatically that the evil machination is dead on arrival. Distinguished Senator Uba Sani is a key loyalist of President Muhammadu Buhari. He holds the President in the highest esteem and would never do anything to demean our iconic leader. “We call on the security agencies to investigate this criminal act by Shehu Dan Takara and his accomplices. Instead of using the social media to receive and share information, the likes of Shehu Dan Takara, on the prompting of desperate politicians, are turning the online platforms into spaces for character assassination and dissemination of falsehoods. “Distinguished Senator Uba Sani urges the general public to disregard both the Facebook posts and the one shared to WhatsApp chat groups by Shehu Dan Takara and his cohorts. They are hatchet jobs. They are lies from the pit of hell,” Senator Uba Sani added. 