Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto (UDUS) Students’Union President, Faruk Barade, has accused his predecessor Ibrahim Kalgo of refusing to hand over the financial records of the body to him. In a statement, the Students Union Public Relations Officer II, Hassan Kangiwa, a 300-level Agriculture undergraduate, quoted Barade as saying: “There is no financial record handed over to us.” “First, I want to assure you that Kalgo has not left any financial record. There is no financial record left either for the office of the president or financial secretary.’’ In an interview, Kalgo, a 400-level Microbiology student, recounted  that the handing over of financial documents between him and his successor was slated for May, but that Barade did not show up. “We wanted to hand over and we agreed to meet at the SU secretariat immediately at 8pm. Other colleagues and I waited from 8pm till around 11pm. We called their phone numbers, times without number, but we eventually left after  waiting for some hours.” Kalgo, however, noted that  the hand over could still be done  privately. In response, Barade confirmed the development. “During Ramadan, we agreed to meet after Iftar for handing over. Unfortunately, an issue came up at the city campus that required the attention of the Students’ Union. We went there, and before we came back they had left.” He continued: “The issue is this: though we agreed on 8:30pm, we were at the City Campus addressing one issue, but we pleaded with them to excuse us for some minutes. They would have none of that. We hurriedly attended to what we went to do at the City Campus to meet them, but we couldn’t. “When we came back, we called them, but they insisted that they would not come back. Some of us were even meeting them one-on-one to handover to us officially, but they refused.” Nonetheless, he said Kalgo has agreed to hand over to him unofficially. “When I called him, he insisted that when he sees me, he will brief me,” he said. Kalgo informed CAMPUSLIFE that he had sent the financial documents to Barade on the Whats Asap platform. However, Barade  has denied it. “There is no message of financial record,” Barade said, showing this reporter his Whatsapp chat with Kalgo. Barade also condemned the digital approach the former president claimed to have used. “Why should a financial breakdown be sent on Whatsapp? Why would he even send me a soft copy of a financial record?  Barade asked. “A financial record is something that should be put in the public domain, and signed by him and his financial secretary,”he said. Meanwhile, the Secretary-General of UDUS SU, Abubakar Auta, a 300-level Law student, expressed dissatisfion with the manner the immediate past administration handled the matter, describing it as ‘intentional negligence’.