Two persons were killed and 21 others injured on Thursday in a pipeline explosion at Ijegun, on the outskirts of Lagos. No fewer than 100 persons were killed in a similar incident at Ijegun 11 years ago. Lagos State Emergency Management (LASEMA) boss Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyitolu however, put the number of the injured at 12. The accident occurred around 4am when vandals were siphoning petrol from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) pipelines that runs through the community from Atlas Cove Depot in Lagos. Thirty-one vehicles, including commercial buses, cars, and scores of lock-up shops were ravaged by the inferno that raged till 3pm. Among the injured were three families on Catholic Mission Street, whose homes were gutted by fire. Shakiru Adeboye, his wife Taiwo, their children Asisat and Taiwo, who suffered burns, were rushed to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. Shakiru Modiu of 7, Catholic Mission Street, his children, Idiat, Fatilat, Jumoke, Oyekansola, Zainab and Jemila and twin grandchildren Kehinde and Taiwo were injured. Also affected were Amida Afolabi, his wife and children Rilwan and Morouf, and Nnabueze Emerukwa, 52. The fire, which trailed the petrol poured in the drainage by the vandals, escalated to Fatade, Irede, Fire Junction, Rufai Ashimiu, Catholic Mission Street and Ijegun Last Bus Stop. According to residents, the dead, whose identities have not been ascertained, attempted to scale a fence on Catholic Mission Street, but got trapped in the inferno. They were said to have fallen into a petrol-ridden gutter almost at the same time a motorist drove by sparking the fire. The bodies have been deposited at the Mainland Hospital Mortuary in Yaba, Lagos Mainland. The injured were taken to Igando General Hospital, Burns and Trauma Centre in Gbagada and LASUTH. How did it happen? There were conflicting accounts of the cause of the explosion. Some residents alleged that the explosion occurred following gunshots by Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officials and the Police Special Task Force on Petroleum charged with securing the pipelines. They alleged that the security operatives shot at a tanker that was being loaded by the vandals. The vandals were said to have fled on sighting the security operatives. One Steve Zeo wondered why the operatives fired at a fuel-laden tanker. Another person, who only identified himself as Damian, said the explosion occurred following the sound of the last gunshot that he heard. “There was fire everywhere,” he added. But another resident stated that the vandals fled on sighting the security agents, but left the valves open, causing petrol to flow across the streets into drainages. The vandals, he added,  ignited the fire as they fled. A school proprietor, Felix Ahaneku, who said his home was directly behind the scene, told The Nation that he started hearing noise around 3am. He said: “The noise started around 3am. At first, we thought it was normal street fighting. But in no time, we started hearing gunshots and soon afterwards, electricity was restored. “All of a sudden, things were moving like water, like the sound of flood. Then, people started shouting that it was fuel and there were footsteps. This was around 5 am. I came out and we saw fire. People started running helter skelter. A lot of people ran out naked.” ‘Vandals loaded four tankers’ Another resident said the vandals had loaded about four tankers, adding that they came to the place around 1 am. He claimed it was the fifth one they were loading when security operatives stormed the place, adding that a sixth tanker marked Abuja RSH208ZZ which they planned to load was abandoned on Ijegun Road. “Come and see the tanker. This is where they abandoned it. This thing happens here almost daily and it is a shame that the security agencies, especially the NSCDC, aren’t doing anything to stop it. The NSCDC and the police cannot claim they do not know about this criminality. “These vandals were here from 1am and they loaded about four trucks. It was the fifth one they were doing before they had issues. The government needs to do something about this issue,” he said. The abandoned tanker had two number plates, Abuja RSH208ZZ and Lagos RSH208ZZ. Police, NSCDC in tanker row The police and NSCDC officers bickered over who should impound the tanker. Chairman, Tanker Drivers Association, Ejigbo Depot, Alhaji Moroof Akanni, said he told them he could not decide for them when asked to intervene. Akanni said: “An NSCDC official called me around past 4am that there was vandalism at the Ijegun pipeline and they needed me to help them look for a driver. When I got here, there was already fire and the place was already rowdy and no one could tell who was who. “Later, someone informed me that there was a tanker parked here and I called the security operatives to notify them about the tanker. NSCDC said they would carry it, police said they would carry it. “I am a civilian and I cannot dictate for them. Residents of the neighbourhood have been trying to broker peace among them. My position is that whoever carried the tanker among them should do a proper investigation. They should handle the case well.” Victims count losses A woman, Mrs. Esther Afolayan, who lost two shops to the fire, wept uncontrollably, lamenting that they were her only sources of livelihood. “I sell makeup items and I am also a hairstylist. I am a graduate but because I could not get a job, I started this business to cater for my children and my two brothers. I have been job hunting since 2010 without success. “I need the government to help me. I do not want money. They should please give me a job. “I lost my generator, fridge and dryer in one of the shops because I run two shops. I was selling shoes, earrings and makeup items in the other one as well. I do not know anything about vandals. All I know is that I was in my house sleeping when I received a call that my shop was on fire. Getting here, the whole thing has burnt to ashes,” she said. A barber, Olarenwaju Fatai, appealed to the government for succour, saying his shop was his only means of income. ‘How we fought the fire’ Osanyintolu said four of the injured suffered severe burns and were taken to Gbagada Trauma and Burns Centre. Osanyintolu said the government would look into the issue of compensation after the agency submits its report on the incident. On the presence of a gas plant beside the pipeline and other building on the right of way, Osanyintolu said the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LABSCA) had been informed about that. Acting Director, Lagos Fire Service Mrs Margaret Adeseye said the agency did everything to quench the fire,” she said. National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) spokesman Ibrahim Farinloye, who was on the scene, said he was told soldiers rescued about 13 people. “This place is a notorious place. Security agents got to know those guys were handling pipeline and they moved in. The guys resisted arrest in the process and ignited the fire. “So far, 31 vehicles have been discovered. We do not know if there are more under the fire. What we are doing now is to ensure the fire doesn’t spread and affect residential houses.” 