Even with the recent empowerment of Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA) officials by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, residents are insisting that there hasn’t been any improvement in the traffic situation of the state. Many, who spoke with The Nation expressed displeasure over level of traffic law enforcement in the state, while some of the residents raised the alarm on what they term selective arrest and prosecution of violators. Others accused law officials of lining their own pockets through bribery and corruption. One of such people is Olaiya Tunji, who said he has lived in Iyana-Ipaja for many years: “I know of a certain LASTMA official who does daily contribution of N20,000 with some people in my area. Everybody knows that he does not do any other job but he spends money like a businessman.” Policemen, he said, are not left out; as majority of them are so addicted to all sorts of corruption, especially bribe-taking. “Those who are supposed to ensure that the laws work smoothly for the benefit of everyone are using it to build mansions for themselves. The entire system needs a general overhaul. Those who flout the rules need to be dealt with in order to serve as deterrent to others with similar intentions.” It has been discovered that some security officials have devised smart means of collecting money from commercial drivers at regular bus stops on most highways. The Nation learnt that the habit now is to recruit young men and women to collect the bribes on their behalf while they watch closely for proper accountability. “Law without enforcement is akin to lawlessness. This is what we have been experiencing on Lagos roads. It has been on for years but it appears it has got worse in the last few months,” said Mr. Olaiya He, however, enjoined the special task force and other special law enforcement agencies in the state to be alive to their responsibilities by controlling the traffic and taming unruly motorists and riders. On 30th of May, Governor Sanwo-Olu ordered the immediate fixing of potholes on Lagos roads, but almost two months down the line, nothing seems to have been done. The best that people have witnessed are huge rocks placed in the pot-holes and craters, which motorists have been bitterly complaining about, owing to the damaging impact on their vehicles. While signing the Order, the Governor declared: “I think we have to make some points about issues that happen around transportation, potholes on our roads, blockages and rest of it, I think it’s something we need to tackle immediately.” As the August Break approaches, many Lagosians spoken to say they would be anxiously waiting to see a marked difference.