Five contestants have emerged winners of this year’s House of Models Reality TV Show. A Counselling and Educational Psychology graduate of the University of Abuja, Agbomere Osemobo also known as Priceless outsmarted 20 other contestants to win the grand prize of 3,000 dollars and a brand new car. Other winners are Ezechukwu Stephanie aka Stephanie (1st runner up); Amebi Godwin Young Simply known as Godwin (2nd runner up); Musa Asekhame aka More (3rd runner up) and Nwokeke Juliet Nneoma aka Jules (4th runner up). The contestants were selected at the auditions held in Lagos, Calabar, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Owerri and camped in a house for 20 days, where they engaged on various tasks and challenges related to modelling and entertainment to determine their strength and weakness. Osemobo, who aspires to be a professional model and singer, said that she did not see herself winning the ultimate prize. “This happens to be my first contest and my first in Lagos,” she said. “I didn’t see this coming but I came and I conquered. I happened to be the quietest person in the house. Some even gave me the nickname, ‘Mummy G. O’, because of my calmness but my vote actually counted and I won. My utmost thanks, goes to Almighty Lord for making it a success and making me the winner among multitude.” She continued: “I lost my job last year, so I stumbled on (an) advert on my Instagram page and because I love fashion, I was like, ‘let me just give this contest a try’ and now the rest is history. I thank God that this platform has given me the opportunity to discover multiple God-given talents is in me. I’m not going to get stuck in one place as model because I found out that I can sing, act and engaged in many sporty activities.” The executive producers and directors, Emmanuel and Joseph Etim – twin brothers, said the show is geared towards giving the Nigerian youths the opportunity to showcase their talents to the world. “House of Models Reality TV show is a platform which we use to mentor and showcase models and link them to some corporate brands, so that they could get endorsement deals,” they said.