Last Thursday’s 10 o’clock evening news bulletin on Channels television really left my numb as I probably has never been about the state of insecurity in our country. First was the video of six kidnapped workers of Action Against Hunger with the only Christian lady among them, Grace dressed up in hijab recounting how they were abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents while returning from a community in Borno state. She pleaded with the federal government, their organization and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to urgently ensure their release before it is too late. “Please do something and don’t let us be killed like those abducted before us,” she said as her male colleagues looked on in the apparent staged managed video by their captors to force the government and others mentioned by the lady to negotiate with them. In response to the video, Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to President Muhammadu Buhari was quoted as saying the incident will hasten efforts being made ensure the release of the new captives and others still being held. The sobering video of the helpless situation of the aid workers was followed by that of the kidnapped of officials of a Sharia Court of Appeal in Kaduna. Just before watching the news, I had read about the security men said to be closing in on the kidnappers of three others along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway earlier in the week. If anyone needed proof that, suddenly, nowhere seems to be no-go area for kidnappers, here was one. Even the busy Lagos-Ibadan expressway, like the Benin-Ore route, far away from the terrorist enclave of Borno, rampaging killers in Kaduna, Sokoto, Zamfara and others has join the list of kidnappers route. Months ago, the wife of a lecturer in a University along Otta-Idi Iroko road in Ogun State was kidnapped when she took a supposed commercial vehicle after parking her car in a bank along the road to withdraw money from another bank’s ATM. She was released a week later after the kidnappers got over a million naira ransom from the husband and family of the woman. As I tried to process the news broadcast and the other incidents, I couldn’t but wonder how we got to this stage where kidnapping and indiscriminate killings have become the order of the day. The thought of No, this cannot be my dear country Nigeria occurred to me, but sadly it is. How do I explain to non-Nigerians who I used to tell that terrorist activities are mainly confined to a few locations in just about three states in my country? The terrorists may still be mainly operating in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, but how do we explain the killings by the bandits who have been on the rampage as if competing to know which group can kill more people in Sokoto, Zamfara and Kaduna? There seems to be a lull for now in the audacious kidnapping spree on the Abuja-Kaduna expressway that forced many to opt for the train ride usually overbooked when operating, but while it lasted, no one is sure how many persons were kidnapped and are still been held. What about the infamous herdsmen who have literally taken over almost any farmland they wanted and do not hesitate to kill anyone that tries to stop them? Can this be my country Nigeria? No it should not.