•Hammer needs to fall on ‘killer’ helmsmen if the trend is to stop For the boat that capsized in Egbin, near Ijede, in the Ikorodu area of Lagos, on June 29, all the tell-tale signs that the journey was a disaster waiting to happen were there from the time the boat took off. According to reports, about 26 passengers were on board the ill-fated boat. They were travelling to the Ipakan Boat Jetty in the Egbin area of Ikorodu from Badore, Ajah, when the boat capsized at about 10p.m. An eyewitness, Hogan Bassey Jnr, said, “an accident occurred on Saturday around Egbin. According to officials conducting the rescue operation, 18 passengers were on board but what I gathered from a reliable source was that 27 people were on board and only two bodies have been recovered. “The passengers, who boarded the boat, were going to Egbin in Ijede. They were very close to Egbin when the accident occurred. The boat capsized because of overloading and late night movement. Normally, for a night trip, boat operators are not supposed to convey more than 15 passengers, but because some helmsmen are desperate and greedy, they usually load more than the normal capacity in order to make extra money.” Bassey said he called the jetty where they took off from to know the number of people in the boat.  The national Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) said the boat designed for 10 passengers had about 21 passengers on board. It took the efforts of the Marine Police,  Lagos State Waterways Authority, Lagos State Emergency Management Authority and local divers to rescue three of the passengers, who were taken to hospital for treatment. But a woman, Oluwaseunfunmi Aniyikaye, and one unidentified person died in the mishap. Since then, the casualty figure has been rising; at least 12 bodies had been recovered as at Tuesday, and five others still missing. For sure, the helmsmen broke all the known safety rules. One, they operated at night with excess number of passengers. Second, none of the passengers wore life jacket. For boat travels anywhere in the civilised world, wearing of life jacket is a prerequisite. Since accidents do not give notice, the best that can be done is to mitigate their impact when they occur; hence the minimum requirement of life jackets. Regrettably, this is not the first such boat mishap in the state, especially on the Ikorodu axis. Several others had occurred, with similar tell-tale signs of impunity, lack of regard for standard rules and inadequate monitoring of the waterways to ensure that greedy helmsmen comply with safety rules. In July, last year, at least five people died in a boat accident in Lagos when a 20-capacity passenger boat belonging to Blue Sea capsized mid-sea en route Ikorodu from Lagos Island. The victims included four women and a man. Five other persons were rescued after the incident. Similarly, in September 2015, three persons were feared dead while three others sustained injuries, following a mishap in Bayeku area of Ikorodu involving a boat carrying 21 passengers. For a state trying to promote alternative means of transportation, to reduce traffic congestion on Lagos roads; rail and travelling on waterways should be a big relief. But, that is in a situation where such means of transportation are deemed safe by commuters. And they cannot be safe unless people who operate boats without adhering to the minimum standards are punished. They must be made to appreciate the fact that human life is what we are talking about here. Mercifully, NIWA said it has arrested all persons deemed culpable in the most recent boat mishap for possible prosecution, to serve as a deterrent to others. This is the least that is expected in the circumstance. 