New set of 644 customers of First City Monument Bank (FCMB) have emerged winners in the ongoing reward scheme of the bank tagged: ‘’FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 6’’. The winners emerged after a successful draw in Lagos. The exercise, the second since the season 6 of the promo began in March, this year, was held at the regional and zonal levels of the bank across Nigeria. It was witnessed by officials of Consumer Protection Council (CPC), National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), community leaders, customers of FCMB and other dignitaries from all walks of life. The latest lucky customers to win N1 million each at the regional draws are Chimel!ue Nwamarabi (Lagos); Sadi Abdullahi (Abuja & North); Amusanya Oluseyi (Southwest) and David Tariah Mary (Southeast & Southsouth). In addition, 640 other customers of the bank smiled home with various exciting gift items such as LED televisions sets, power generating sets, decoders, tablets, smart phones and other consolation prizes at the electronic selection exercise that took place in Lagos, Kaduna, Ado-Ekiti (Ekiti State) and Enugu. The ‘’FCMB Millionaire Promo Season 6’’, which is on till November 2019, has been designed to provide extra empowerment and create value for customers of the Bank, while encouraging financial inclusion and savings culture. The promo is targeted at all segments of the society, especially existing and potential savings account customers of the Bank. This, however, excludes salary and domiciliary account holders. Speaking on the ‘’FCMB Millionaire Promo’’, and the draws, Executive Director, Retail Banking of the Bank, Olu Akanmu, appreciated customers for their unalloyed loyalty and patronage. He said: ‘’As a friendly Bank, we are delighted to produce another set of millionaires and winners of other prizes in the second draws of the promo. We will continue to reward and enhance the experience of our customers through this promo and other offerings, aimed at further empowering and adding value to them in line with our core values. “We are also committed to distinguish our offerings in the retail banking space by delivering exceptional products and services that would ultimately ensure the growth and achievement of the personal and business aspirations of our customers. All our customers need do to win in the millionaire promo is to keep on saving with FCMB.”   