THE Pan-African Historical Theatre Festival (PANAFEST) Foundation, in collaboration of African Union (AU) and the Government of Ghana, will hold the 14th edition of PANAFEST and the 21st edition of Emancipation Day from July 25 to August 2. The theme for this year’s editions of the celebrations is: Uniting the African Family, and a sub-theme: Beyond 400 Years: Reaching Across Continents Into The Future. The celebrations will hold in Emira and Accra in Ghana. Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and Mallam Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna) as well as former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola are the guest speakers. Africa will mark 400 years of slavery abolition and year of return during the nine-day events lined up for the continental festival. It has been 400 years since the first official shipment of slaves from Africa to America took place in 1619 in Virginia, the United States of America (U.S.A). The Government of Ghana’s main focus for this year’s celebrations is to give people of African descent the opportunity to visit the continent and celebrate Black’s unique contribution to global civilisation and development. PANAFEST is a cultural event dedicated to the enhancement of and the development of Africans. It is for Africans and people of Africa descent, as well as other people committed to the wellbeing of Africans on the continent and in the Diaspora. The essential thrust of PANAFEST is to enhance development. Many events lined up for this year’s celebrations include a two-day Pan-African conference, theatre performances, fine art exhibitions, African market/expo and traditional welcoming ceremony. Others are: grand durbar of chiefs and queen mothers, women’s day, youth day workshops, reverential night, Emancipation Day and best African women award (BAWA). The award will be given to women who have contributed immensely to African development while some Nigerian first ladies will get the prestigious award. Powerful delegations are expected from United Nations (UN), the AU and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Distinguished Africans, international artistes, political leaders, the diplomatic community, personalities, intellectual, investors and businessmen and blacks from the Diaspora are to witness the event. “It’s our expectation that thousands of participants from all over the world witness this epoch making event,” the organisers said. 