Daughter of the immediate past governor of Imo State and the President of the East High College, Uloma Rochas Nwosu, Tuesday, said that her decision to own and operate a “world class’’ private school was motivated by her father’s vision to promote education in the African continent”. She noted that education remains the most viable tool of developing Nigeria and Africa, adding that the hidden potentials of the African child can only be nurtured through quality education. According to the former governor’s daughter, who is the proprietor of the East High School, a high profile private school in Owerri, the Imo State capital, she did not venture into the education sector to make profit but rather to fulfil a childhood dream of promoting education. She added that though, not every Nigerian child has her kind of privileged background but could realize their goals and become great through education. Mrs. Nwosu, who spoke at the maiden edition of the East High College and East High Academy Speech and Prize Giving Day, said that the College was conceived to give the best of training to the scholars at an affordable rate. She said, Ï stand here as a very proud woman having realized my childhood dream. The dream for the East High School started when I was 19 years old. As a young girl, I worked so hard to create something and be a leading woman, I realized quite early that education is indispensable in the making of leaders and we all should be involved in the efforts to bequeath our children with quality education as that is the only way they can become great in life”. Speaking earlier, the Principal of the School, Mr. Graham Meredith, pointed out that leadership skills can only be acquired through quality education, which he said has been the focus of the school. In his words, “we in the school know that education is very important and that is why we have been training our scholars on how to be good leaders of tomorrow, the scholars should listen to their teachers and parents, success can only come to people who have manners and respect”.