•It is time for men to admit there is a problem The shallowness of the long-held myth that women are virtually solely responsible for infertility in marital relationships has further been undermined by the disturbing realities that characterise male infertility in Nigeria. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines infertility as a “disease characterised by the failure to establish a clinical pregnancy after 12 months of regular and unprotected sexual intercourse or due to an impairment of a person’s capacity to reproduce either as an individual or with his/her partner.” Infertility in sub-Saharan Africa ranges from 20 per cent to 46 per cent; in Nigeria, the prevalence of the condition is between 20 and 25 per cent among married couples. Thirty per cent of infertility can be traced to females, 30 per cent is attributable to males, 30 per cent is due to combined male-female problems, while 10 per cent of infertility cases have no recognisable cause. Attributing infertility to women is not only unfair; it often hampers efforts to properly identify the true cause of the problem, and therefore makes the attainment of viable solutions less likely. If men account for nearly a third of infertility cases, it is vital that the causes of male infertility be properly understood and workable answers found. Male infertility usually manifests as poor sperm count, poor motility and mobility of sperm, or a combination of all three factors. This reduction in semen parameters can be caused by genetic factors, or as a result of prolonged exposure to heat, electromagnetic radiation, or environmental pollutants. It is especially important that more men pay attention to the lifestyle decisions that may make them susceptible to the causative factors of male infertility. Prolonged exposure to heat, for example, can result from placing laptop computers on laps, wearing tight underwear, working in hot environments like bakeries and foundries, and staying too long in saunas or heated Jacuzzis. These are all activities that are relatively easy to change. Men can decide to place their laptops on tables henceforth; unnecessarily tight underclothing can be replaced with looser garments; increased breaks can be introduced in relatively hot working environments; the duration of indulging in saunas and Jacuzzis can be strictly controlled. Exposure to electromagnetic radiation comes mainly from the carrying of mobile phones in hip pockets close to the groin. This can be reduced by placing phones in bags or briefcases, and by using Bluetooth headsets and earpieces. These and other corrective measures will only succeed if Nigeria’s men are prepared to undergo a change in prevailing attitudes. Apart from heaping much of the blame for infertility on women, there are a host of unhelpful assumptions that must be gotten rid of. They include an overdependence on dubious aphrodisiacs, sexual stimulants and sex performance drugs; a tendency to engage in promiscuous and unprotected sexual activity; the misuse and abuse of alcohol and recreational drugs; the belief that regular sexual health check-ups are insulting and unnecessary. A comprehensive public enlightenment programme would help to change such negative attitudes. Age-appropriate sexual health education must be a compulsory component of the school curriculum at the primary and secondary levels. Governments and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) must collaborate more closely in ensuring that information on infertility and other aspects of sexual health are made more easily available. The country’s child-adoption services also need to be refined and improved so that they can offer a viable alternative to childless couples, and reduce the temptation to resort to baby factories, child theft and human trafficking. The cultural stigmas attached to infertility must be dropped; giving birth to children should not constitute the sole validation of happiness and achievement in life. Ultimately, the trauma of infertility can only be overcome when men and women realise that increased cooperation and mutual understanding are far better than pointlessly apportioning blame.