The immediate past governor of Kogi State, Capt. Idris Wada, on Saturday, declared his intention to reclaim the seat he lost in 2015. The former governor during a press conference at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, in Lokoja, said he was moved into re-contesting under the umbrella of his political party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), because of the plight of the people of the state. He said that if elected, he will create the much needed employment opportunities, and return the state to the path of fulfilling that promise that people desired at the creation of the state. He bemoaned the plight of workers in the state, saying his administration was always up to date on salary payment, save for his last three months in office, one of which he attributed to disagreement with labour leaders, as to how best to utilize dwindled federal allocation and the others because monthly allocation had not arrived before his departure. According to him, the well being, progress and development of Kogi people remain non negotiable, this is the reason why he has accepted the call to seek a return to office, adding that the sufferings of the people, necessitated his acceptance to run. The former governor said that it had become difficult to fold his hands and allow the unimaginable suffering of Kogi people continue unabated. He tasked the PDP state executive to see the election as a defining moment that calls for deep reflection, saying all hands must be on deck to make the November 16 governorship election a turning point for the state. He said he had learnt and known much more of the things that will catapult the state’s all round development if elected. “Within the available resources available to my administration, I made the completion of inherited projects and payment of salaries a priority. What should inform the decision as to who becomes the next Kogi State governor should be about capacity and experience. My aspiration is about the people who now see suicide as an option. “The November 16, governorship election present to the people another lifeline; my administration made transparency, accountability and honesty its watchword, and i appeal for the support of the PDP executives to enable me realise more”, he appealed. He said that the people’s decision in who flies the party’s flag is crucial to making education, affordable healthcare delivery and infrastructure development central to the people. He urged the party executives to create a level playing field that would allow for a candidate that is passionate in actualising the dream of a better and enviable Kogi, to emerge as its candidate. He said that it would be “suicidal if Kogi people mess up the only opportunity left in choosing a purposeful leader as governor. Our only lifeline should be well utilized and not traded off for peanuts, and for anti Kogi progress”.