The security challenges in the north east may have led to increase in the poverty rate of people in rural communities, an international non-governmental organisation, Save the Children, has said. The organisation said that people in the region can no longer access their farms, adding that they cannot produce as much as they use to produce. It noted that the normal livelihood of people in the region had been disrupted, leading to their increased vulnerability. Save the Children Head of Food Security and Livelihood, Chachu Tadicha, said this during the unveiling of the Household Economy Analysis (HEA) in Abuja on Monday. He said: “We know that conflict affects people’s livelihood. For example, the farmers will not have access to land and therefore, even in very rich productive areas in the north east, people can no longer access their farms and therefore they cannot produce as much as they use to produce. “This affects access to food. At the same time it also affects their access to income because the businesses they used to depend on is disrupted and their trade route is disrupted. “This increases vulnerability and contributes to poverty. The conflict has contributed a lot to vulnerabilities in the affected communities.” Assistant National Technical Manager, Famine Early Warning System Network, Chinedu Anyaegbu, said that people in four livelihood zone states in the region needed N7,192, 685, 000 as cash support. He also said they needed about 41, 923, 000 grain support. Also, the Principal Statistician at the National Bureau of Statistics, Bishop Ohioma, called on both the Federal and state governments to make budgetary provisions for Cadre Harmonize and HEA analysis. He said the HEA analysis, provides data for government to know areas that are at risk, having survival deficiency in terms of food and security. The HEA is a robust livelihood based framework that helps in the understanding of how households in different socio-economic groups get the food and cash they need, their assets, opportunities open to them, constraints they face during crisis and their coping ability.