From being jobless, Ngozi Vivian Nkadi has become an employer via hair styling, reports Daniel Essiet Ngozi Vivian Nkadi’s dream was to get a well-paying job. That was not to be for the Business Administration graduate of Delta State Polytechnic, Ogwashi-Uku, Delta State. After staying at home for six months without making a head way, she decided to go into hair-styling, an area she loves. Ngozi said in school, she was helping her colleagues make their hair. Her first leap of faith was switching careers. Then she decided it was time to explore opportunities in hair business rather than stay home. To prepare for the next phase of her journey, she decided to go into  apprenticeship in the market and researched every aspect of the hair styling business. She spotted a gap in the hair care market, especially wigs and hair extensions. It was this discovery that prompted her to find out how she could create her own line of extensions, knowing that the quality and accuracy of the hairs’ look and feel would be a crucial selling point. After some time, she adjusted to make the hair look good. She also made braides. For six months, she  learnt the trade. She told The Nation the first three months were very tough, but she managed to push forward and continued to focus on the business. After a modest start, her popularity spiked, thanks to social media and word of mouth. Today, with two staff, she is happy. She attributed her success to perseverance and clients’ satisfaction. Watching other stylists work in the market kept her up-to-date and knowledgeable in a competitive market.  She was taken in, too, by how collaborative she was with the other stylists. She asked for their opinions and advice.  She tried her styles as well as new products. What challenges did you encounter? The first challenge was building her business. This is an ongoing struggle. She has to learn to manage her expectations as well as those of her clients. She has high standards for herself and for others Being a small business owner has given her the freedom to be who she wants to be. Seeing where she came from and believing that she will continue to achieve success, is very rewarding. The experience has given her a command, authority and confidence. She just wants to help people feel and be their best. What has she learnt from her successes and failures? She learnt that one must  have a vision about which one is and hold on to it. Her words: “Know what you’re great at and believe in it.” She love helping clients see something in themselves they’ve never seen before. She can update their style and create something new and more flattering for where they are right now. She loves it when clients look in the mirror and say, “perfect.” As an extension of the natural hair community, the wig and extension business will keep growing for as long as it remains profitable. And though mass-produced items threaten to overshadow the market, she believes the women running their small businesses still hope to inspire and cultivate their own loyal client base. Her business is her focus. She sees herself doing more. Her goal is to get as many women as possible and experience their hair beautiful.