THE Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) will require about N50 billion in the interim to fix inadequate and ageing airspace communication and ground-based equipment, an investigation has revealed. The huge sum, a source close to the agency hinted would be used to fix satellite and ground-based navigational equipment such as Very High-Frequency Radio (VHF Radio); Category Three Instrument Landing Systems; Distance Measuring Equipment and other critical air navigation infrastructure. Besides fixing dilapidated space-based equipment, the agency is also expected to spend huge sums to provide secondary source of power – Solar panels -for its highly sophisticated ground-based en route navigation located at remote locations nationwide. Though the agency is self- sustaining, its budgetary provisions for capital projects cannot match the huge cost of its equipment profile, aviation sources said. According to one of the sources, over N50 billion is part requirement to fix gaps in air navigation infrastructure for members’ states of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Nigeria as a member is required to fix critical gaps in their air space infrastructure through a programme christened Aviation Systems Block Upgrade (ASBU). Member states of ICAO are obliged to comply with the ASBU to upgrade and modernize their air navigation infrastructure. The severity of deficit in infrastructure experts say, are categorized into Block Zero, Block One and Block Two. Investigation showed that NAMA may have begun moves to deal with complaints by pilots over poor communication in the Nigerian airspace. This includes the completion of sectorization of the upper airspace otherwise known as Lagos Flight Information Region and the Kano Flight Information Region. Some pilots recently asked NAMA to take urgent steps to address the communication challenges in the air space with a view to averting air accidents. Chief Pilot of Med-View Airline, Captain Stephen Fevrier, said that pilots are flying in an unsafe airspace in the country owning to poor communication system. He said: “I came to Nigeria about 12 years ago and the first thing that we were told to learn as pilots is to say break-break when you get into the airspace and that is because the airspace is congested. I must say that the airspace is still congested and unsafe for pilots to fly.” According to him, when flying from Lagos to Abuja, pilots often lose contact with the Lagos control tower 200 miles into the airspace which should not be. He said that the same situation occurs between Port Harcourt and Abuja, pointing out that even coming into Nigerian airspace from Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, pilots hardly communicate effectively with the control tower in Kano. Also speaking, Arik Air Safety Manager, Captain Jide Bakare, said that the biggest issue that Nigerian pilots are currently grappling with is the problem of communication in the airspace. Bakare said: “There are so many issues but communication is one of the biggest challenges that we face as pilots in Nigerian airspace.” However, an official of the agency, who pleaded not to be named, said though there were challenges of communication in the airspace, foreign aircraft and airlines were not avoiding Nigerian air space. He said that requests for more flight frequencies by some airlines including Emirates, Ethiopian Airlines do not align with reports that airlines are avoiding Nigeria. He said no pilot or airline would embark on a suicidal mission to fly into any country’s airspace if her skies are not safe. A few months ago, the   Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) decried what it called the deplorable state of control towers at some airports. It described the situation as a   threat to safety of flights. The body listed the airports with deplorable control towers to include Kaduna, Maiduguri, Ilorin, Yola, Sokoto, Benin and Katsina Its President Abayomi Agoro said communication between air traffic controllers and pilots remains a huge challenge. Besides the poor control towers, he said there was need to look into other challenges air traffic controllers grapple with, including the Abuja Airport Tower Elevator that dropped from its topmost floor to the ground,  a sore point in the aviation industry. Agoro said more worrisome is the threat to the health hazard to air traffic controllers, who go through the agony of climbing 232 flights of stairs daily. The NATCA boss also spared a thought for the poor controller pilot Very High-Frequency Radio coverage of airspace. He said it is a far cry from the required international standards, but it was still work in progress for NAMA. He said NAMA was experiencing enormous loss of revenue in foreign exchange because many foreign aircraft find it a lot convenient to avoid the airspace and, consequently, operate in contiguous airspace. He said: “Over the years, it has been quite herculean for air traffic controllers to communicate effectively with pilots. The limited or inadequate number of air traffic controllers in the country to effectively man all air traffic control units across the country is not only hampering service delivery, but leading to a situation where the staff are overworked and may lead to significant safety implication.” Also, Flight Crew Association of Nigeria (FCAN) Coordinator Captain Robert Roland urged stakeholders in the sector to address issues related to poor or non-existent communication.