The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), has called on the new Board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to act fast on the challenges facing the industry. In a letter to Mele Kyari and signed by the General-Secretary, Comrade Lumumba Okugbawa, the union said challenges such as pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft, inadequate infrastructure and pricing uncertainties should be looked into. ”We agree that the nation’s oil and gas industry is on a steady progression to the next level. However, the challenges associated with pipeline vandalism,  crude oil theft, inadequate infrastructure, pricing uncertainties, and the obsolete refineries as well as the contentious fuel subsidy issues and resting of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), are issues the Nigerian masses expect the new NNPC Board to champion.” The union described Kyari’s appointment as well-deserved and a recognition of his 27 years of contributions and exemplary service to the NNPC group, the nation’s oil and gas sector and the growing economy that is majorly dependent on the industry. PENGASSAN said,  Kyari is a quintessential crude oil marketer with prerequisite certification and outfield pedigree in petroleum economics, and crude oil and gas trading, whose knowledge, wisdom, forthrightness, steadfastness, and purposefulness to the corporation, the oil and gas industry and the nation as a whole, is being rewarded by the new appointment. It said: “Your appointment did not come to our Association as a surprise because it is a testament to your hard work, dedication to duty and exemplary leadership quality. Our Association, having watched your steady and impactful progression over the years, welcome this great honour, higher responsibilities and challenges vested with this new appointment. “PENGASSAN as an in-house association in the sector, which your membership and activities climaxed with the position of GEC Chairman of NNPC, is aware how under your stewardship, the crude oil marketing division recorded noticeable transformation in the management and sales of various Nigeria’s crude oil grades through the infusion of transparency and automation of the processes.” The association revealed how it has followed Mr Kyari’s career  progression and believed that his appointment would further aid in the development of the oil and gas industry and the nation’s economy. ” We are also aware of how you led the team that proposed and managed the Direct Sales and Direct Purchase (DSDP) arrangement of petroleum products from 2016 to date, a process that saved the nation of over $1million in 2016 as a result of your handling of the crude oil swap arrangement with products. It is on this premise that PENGASSAN believes that your testament to exemplary record and exceptional performance over the years in different strategic roles will be of immense benefit to not just the corporation, but the nation’s oil and gas industry and the nation’s economy,” the union said. To the immediate past GMD, Dr Maikanti Baru, the association while commending him for his contributions to the growth of the industry, said history will remember him for his good works that brought stability to the industry in terms of industrial relations management and free flow of refined products. PENGASSAN also described its partnership with the outgone GMD as legendary, which they will forever remain grateful, and wished him the best of luck in his future endeavours.