Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has urged the 2019 Batch B NYSC members to embark on laudable developmental projects that would impact positively on their host communities and the nation. The governor made the call on Monday at the closing ceremony of the Batch B orientation course held at the NYSC permanent orientation camp in Iseyin. Makinde, represented by Mrs Oyebisi Adegoke, the acting Permanent Secretary, Oyo State Ministry of Youth and Sports, said the projects would complement the efforts of government and contribute to the development of the state. He also urged the corps members to engage in post – camp training to master their chosen skills and become employers of labour soon. “As good ambassadors of the NYSC scheme and your families, keep the flag flying, engage in productive activities, shun acts of truancy, drug abuse and other anti-social behavior,” the governor said. Makinde assured them of adequate security, welfare and hospitality by his administration and the people of the state. “The state is very peaceful and accommodating. As you move into the 33 local government areas, you will find the environment conducive to live and work in. ”This government will continue to assist the scheme to achieve its objectives,” he said. Earlier, the Oyo State NYSC Coordinator, Mrs Eniola Ambekemo, said the three-week stay on camp with over 2,500 corps members was peaceful as the members exhibited excellent behaviour and actively participated in camp activities. Ambekemo noted that corps members were equitably posted to the 33 local governments in compliance with the Federal Government’s policy of posting to the four areas of need. The areas of need are rural health care, education, rural infrastructure and agriculture. She urged the people of the state to ensure that members were warmly received and encouraged to settle down so as to bring out their best while serving their host communities. The coordinator also urged the corps members to exhibit good character, be law abiding and embark on developmental projects that would leave their footprints in the sands of time. “Be security conscious, respect the cultures of the communities you find yourself, integrate with the people, cleverly stay out of local politics and never embark on unauthorised journeys and night travelling,” she said. The coordinator further solicited the support of the state government in the provision of ultra-modern auditorium with 4000 sitting capacity for lectures at the camp. Ambekemo also requested for provision of hostel blocks with toilet facilities to conveniently accommodate the large number of corps members deployed to the state. She further acknowledged the support of the state government and other stakeholders in the implementation of the NYSC scheme. (NAN)