A FORENSIC scientist, Dr Richard Somiari, on Thursday told an Igbosere High Court in Lagos that he obtained his qualification in Crime Scene Processing through a 16-hour online course. Somiari spoke as a prosecution witness in the trial of a Dane, Peter Nielsen, charged with killing his Nigerian wife Zainab and three-and-a-half-year old daughter Petra on April 5, 2018. He told Justice Mobolanle Okikiolu-Ighile that he did not physically attend Florida International University, USA to study Crime Scene Processing, but was certified and became an expert after completing a 16-hour programme online from the school. Dr Somiari disclosed this while being cross-examined by Nielsen’s lead counsel, Olasupo Shasore SAN. The doctor had given his testimony on June 12. The Lagos State Government accused the 54-year-old Dane of smothering Zainab and his three-and-half-year daughter, Petra to death at about 3:45am at No. 4, Flat 17, Bella Vista Towers, Banana Island Ikoyi, Lagos. Five people were said to be in the apartment on the night of the incident: Nielsen, Zainab, Petra and two of Zainab’s step-sisters; Gift and Favour Madaki. Nielsen was arraigned last June 13, on a two-count murder charge, in accordance with Section 223 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. He pleaded not guilty, following which the judge ordered his remand for trial. At the resumption of trial yesterday, the witness also revealed that not all the evidential samples taken at the crime scene were tested at the laboratory. Somiari, Centre Director for the Lagos State DNA & Forensic Centre (LSD&FC), said over 50 evidential samples were taken at the crime scene but not all were tested. He agreed with the defence counsel that it was possible that some of evidential samples taken at the crime scene might have been contaminated before getting to the scene. The witness also disclosed that he was not aware of the defendant before visiting the crime scene but was confronted by his earlier testimony in court that proved the contrary. He stated that after some of the evidential samples taken at the crime scene were tested, they discovered that some of the biological material found on the night wears of the murdered woman and her child, matched that of a Dane, Nielsen who happened to be the crime suspect. Meanwhile, the court has admitted into evidence five forensic reports produced by the witness. Further hearing in the matter has been adjourned till September 28 and October 25 for continuation of cross examination by the defence counsel.