A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry (CADAM), has held an event to mark the World Drug Day, EVELYN OSAGIE reports. TO the Director-General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, the drug problem has become worrisome. Quoting the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), he said in the past year, nearly 15 per cent of the adult population (around 14.3 million people) reported a considerable level of use of psychotropic drug substances,”quoting the surveys led by the National Bureau of Statistics in cooperation with the UNODC. Olukanni was the keynote speaker at the Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry (CADAM) inaugural lecture in Lagos, which was part of its three-day activities marking the  World Drug Day. Citing UNODC’s World Drug Day Report, he said: “With improved research, and more precise data from India and Nigeria, both among the 10 populous countries in the world, we see there are many more opioid users and people with drug use disorders than previously estimated globally. “Some 35 million up from the previous estimate of 30.5 million suffer from drug abuse and require treatment services. The death toll is also higher; 585,000 people died in 2017. Prevention and treatment continue to fall short of need in many parts of the world,” he stated. Drug abuse in Nigeria, according to him, is caused by many factors, such as greed of peddlers, disobedience of laws, proliferation of the market by individuals who sell medicines, porous borders, diversion of legitimate exports to illicit use, weakness in inspections, weak penalties for the sellers and traffickers, among others. The ambassador listed old and new frontiers of drug and substance abuse. He called for proactive engagement and cooperation of government and well-meaning Nigerians to curb the trend. Olukanni said: “We have a huge drug crisis on our hands. The new frontiers of medical and recreational marijuana and the $32billion market opportunity being dangled before us may appear far off in the United States, but believe me they are at our doors steps. We must be alert to the efforts to extend the frontiers of legal Cannabis and be ready to combat it.  But to be able to do so, we must have an understanding of the dimension of what is to come and promote the need for us to prepare to combat it at all levels. “We must wake up to it and start thinking of the strategic options to combat the trend. We may not be able to prevent total penetration, but we can at least ensure they don’t destroy our society and social fabric in our desire to key into this huge legal trade…It was also reported that drug abuse was observed among age 25- 39. ‘’This is indeed a call for re-orientation and paradigm shift in our approach to Drug phenomenon in Nigeria. We, therefore, recommend greater involvement and commitment on the part of government in order to forestall the scourge of illicit drugs in the country.” For CADAM’s Director-General, Dr. Dokun Adedeji, “Drug abuse in not an incurable condition, so there is hope of recovery for such victims. That is why today, addiction is considered a public health issue. Fighting the scourge requires cooperation of all.” But if you think men are the only victims, think again. According to Adedeji, one in four people who abuse drugs are women.” He said: “Drug abuse has become a serious societal health problem that to mark the World International Day against drug abuse and illicit trafficking, June 26, the United Nations in its theme for this year’s World Drug day, ‘Health for justice, Justice for health’ has beckoned on stakeholders in heath, justice and society to work together to find a sustainable solution.”  A tour For this reason, he said, the organisation marked the day with various activities. The celebrations  began with a tour of its rehabilitation facility at Epe, Lagos, where it took reporters to for a first-hand view of its 28-year-long programmes/projects. The centre, known as the Enoch & Folu Adeboye Rehabilitation Centre, has as Matron the wife of the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Folu Adeboye. It houses about 120 residents in its rehabilitation programme, it was learnt. According to Adedeji, it seeks to mend and empower its beneficiaries with skills, such as ICT, photography and video production, fashion designing, Ankara accessories and bead making, soap making and cosmetics, leather works, laundry and barbing. They organisation called for “the non-criminalisation of drug dependent persons in line with the United Nations policy of treating them as victims who need help from the society rather than criminals to be punished”. “The non-stigmatisation of drug victims, especially those who have been rehabilitated would go a long way to promote faster recovery. This can be achieved, particularly with the help of the media. Non-stigmatisation is what we constantly urge the public at CADAM. We are on a great mission, which is to identify, prevent and combat the multiple causes and effect of drug abuse through the development of effective programmes and services that will make individuals, families and society free from the scourge of drug abuse and addiction. “We believe these would ultimately improve their social health. The organisation was established to provide preventive care, rehabilitation and after care in a bid to make individuals, families and communities free from the scourge of drug abuse and addiction. We know we cannot do this alone, so Christ remains our cornerstone and the Church of God, the Redeemed Christian Church of God has been our origin and support through the years since it was established in 1987. ‘’Pastor Folu Adeboye has been very supportive. She built this facility in Araga, Epe. Thanks to her; hundreds are yearly being rehabilitated and empowered,” Adedeji said.  A walk The tour was followed by a walk. Tagged: “Awareness walk”, it had in attendance advocates, including Nollywood actor John Okafor. With placards in hand, they began their campaign from Ndubuisi Kanu Park, Alausa and ended it at Ikeja bus stop. According to CADAM Director of Programmes and Orientation, Funke Salako, the rally was “meant to create awareness about the menace of drug abuse and its impact on our society”.  A talk The celebration ended with the inaugural lecture by NACCIMA DG at Alausa. It had as theme “Our crisis of drug and substance abuse: Strategic options to confront the new frontiers. Dr. Ify Ukaegbu, represented the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulure; and the Assistant Director, Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Taiwo Fibisola.