The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO), Basil Agboarumi, has highlighted the critical roles being played by IATA’s Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) in ground handling and airline operations in Africa. Agboarumi, a keynote speaker at the just-concluded maiden edition of the GSE & RAMP-OPS Africa in Casablanca, Morocco, said ISAGO has standardised ground handling operations through its audits, ,thereby ensuring aviation safety across the world. Speaking on the theme ‘Effectiveness of ISAGO in managing ground handling services for airlines benefits for Africa’, he said ISAGO audit has eliminated Multiple Audits per Ground Service Provider (GSP) and Individual Airline Auditing Systems, increased safety in aviation by ensuring standards, which have led to reduction in air accidents unlike what obtained before. He said the introduction of ISAGO audit had given room for audit sharing, thereby reducing  the number of redundant audits and improving operational safety, standardisation across multiple operations, reduction of incidents in ground operations and enhancing company’s image/reputation. Apart from ensuring safety, ISAGO has other benefits, some of which include promotion of efficiency and quality service delivery through innovations and technology, lowering costs by eliminating multiple audit, which enables ground operators and airlines to focus on operations, to ensure implementation of Safety Management System (SMS), he added. The chairman of the conference, Paul Drever, said the event was held to bring together the buyers, users and manufacturers of GSE and to explore how to move the sector forward. He discussed the challenges in airside operations in Africa, how GSE is used on the continent and how it could be improved on. The event, which took place in Sofitel, Casablanca, had other speakers from across the world. They include David Burgess of Swissport, Tafadzawa Zaza o f Air Zimbabwe, Dimitrios Sanos of IATA, Danny Vranckx of Aviaco GSE. There were exhibitors of world known GSE’s, such as Air Marrel, Blissfox, Mulag, and T ranstec Overseas. Topics were addressed by various speakers at the conference. They include: How potable water reduces fuel consumption, Thebenefits of an alliance and how small changes can bring rewards, Ramp of the future, Leveraging technology to improve airside supervision and safety, Increasing  safety efficiency through aviation training. 