Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday nominated 25 persons for commissioner and special adviser. The technocrats and politicians are the first batch of nominees to be considered by the House of Assembly. Among them are two-time commissioner and former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Tunji Bello and The Nation Editor. A statement by the governor’s Deputy Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Gboyega Akosile, said the transmission of the list is in fulfilment of the governor’s promise to accelerate his administration’s development agenda. He said the 25, after undergoing the lawmakers’ screening, would assume duty as commissioners and Special Advisers. The statement reads: “Governor Sanwo-Olu carefully picked the nominees based on their cognate experience in their respective professions. “The list comprised names of technocrats and politicians, who understand the challenges of the state. “The painstaking and laborious selection process was aimed at constituting the best team that will serve Lagos in line with the agenda of his administration vision of delivering a city-state that will rank among the top most liveable cities in the world, it said, adding: “We took our time to pick the best hands for the tough job Lagosians have elected us to do. The nominees for the 25 commissioner and special adviser positions include women and men who have made their mark and at the zenith of their professional callings.” The governor’s statement said consultation was going on to the complete number of executive council (exco) members. The exco, said the statement, would be unique because of its diversity. Quoting the governor, Akosile said: “Lagos would continue to take the lead in innovation, gender-balance and youth inclusion in the administration of the state. “We have a blend of youth who are under 40 among nominees for commissioners and special advisers. Women too are well represented in the list. We believe Lagos deserves the best and we cannot give the people anything less than that.” Breaking down the list of nominees, Akosile said: “There are 17 men and eight women who will be sworn in as members of the State Executive Council. Also in keeping his promise of millennial’s inclusion, Governor Sanwo-Olu included youths who are in their early and mid-thirties in the list of nominees. “The State House of Assembly is expected to carry out a screening of the nominees to set the machinery of governance in full swing.” The other 23 nominees include: Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo; Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo; Prof. Akin Abayomi; Dr. Idris Salako; Tunji Bello; Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka; Mrs. Bolaji Dada; Lere Odusote; Dr. Frederic Oladeinde; Gbolahan Lawal; Ms. Adekemi Ajayi and Femi George. There are also: Dr. Wale Ahmed; Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN); Hakeem Fahm; Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle; Aramide Adeyoye; Segun Dawodu; Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf; Sam Egube; Ms. Ruth Bisola Olusanya; Princess Aderemi Adebowale;  Tunbosun Alake and Afolabi Ayantayo. In Ibadan, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde looks set to transmit his list of commissioners and special advisers to the House of Assembly this week. The Nation learnt that seven of the commissioner-nominees are from the coalition parties – African Democratic Congress (ADC), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP). It was learnt that while Makinde nominated seven from his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he conceded three to ADC, two to ZLP and one each for SDP and CNPP. The source disclosed that the deal was finally sealed at a meeting of the coalition parties, which took place at Makinde’s Ibadan home at the weekend. On special advisers, the source said: “PDP also went away with six special advisers, ADC two, ZLP two while each of SDP and CNPP got one special adviser each. It was agreed by all parties involved.” Another source disclosed that Makinde’s list had been delayed by the coalition parties taking their time to ensure equity among party leaders. The source added that the parties were changing names in the last few weeks. The source disclosed that Makinde personally increased ADC commissioner slots from two to three. Two slots, the source said, were officially agreed for the party. The governor may transmit the list to the Assembly today or tomorrow, barring the unforeseen, the source said, pleading not to be named. ADC and ZLP coalesced with PDP in the March 9 governorship election to defeat the then governing All Progressives Congress (APC). Aside winning the governorship election, the PDP as an independent party, won 26 of the 32 House of Assembly seats. 