Now this is a tricky one. Even Hardball knows enough to step gingerly around this one; a wise man must handle the matter of the opposite sex with uncommon equanimity and the measuredness of a sage. If only because you are a man and in some way or the other, you would need a woman or her service. So matters of femininity must be treated with the delicateness they require. Now, do not take the above title literally; it’s not about the complexion and tone of the fair sex. Notwithstanding that most of us African men now have a bit of difficulty discerning the real texture and coloration of the skin of the typical African belle. Over the years Western civilisation – not to mention cosmetics – has eroded the rich tonality of the original African woman’s skin. The much-cherished luscious glister of the female dark skin was organic aphrodisiac of sort, especially in the half dawn moments of conjugal co-efficiencies. But this is not about new-day African woman skincare methods; far from it. Hardball is troubled here today, about the make-up (again, not cosmetic), character and constitution of the average Nigerian woman. Who is this person? What is her psychological state? Is there a common glitch bordering on the pathological and homicidal? Now consider this story before we return to the question of the true colour of the African woman: a housewife in Owerri West Local Government of Imo State reportedly forced her niece to eat a dead chicken raw. As recounted by a neighbour, she was returning from her shop and overheard the woman (Ugochi) telling someone to finish that thing. She was going to pass by but the anguished cry of a little girl ignited her curiosity. She stopped to look and behold, she saw the little girl (Chiamaka) eating a dead fowl raw. She was aghast and beckoned on other residents. According to the witness’s account, the little girl, who looks like a seven-year-old even though she is 12, is subjected to perpetual torment by her aunt. The accused (Ugochi) denied that the chicken was raw: “It is not true that I asked her to eat the chicken raw, although I was angry. I came back and met my fowl dead. When I asked her what happened, she said she didn’t know. I forced her to cook the chicken and eat it.” Hardball asks again: what is the true colour of a woman? Some have wagered that it only comes alive when you keep her in charge of another woman’s child. Recently, cases of hot water baths, hot iron burns, solitary confinements, sometimes in chains, are rife – always against the other woman’s child. This psychopathic tendency would stand a good academic study; Hardball recommends. 