The last may not have been heard on the controversy trailing the wearing of hijab by female Muslim students of the International School, Ibadan as the parents’ forum under the aegis of ISI Muslim Parents Forum, on Friday, said, it has refilled fresh 11 cases to legally pursue the case to a logical conclusion. The parents also said it has petition relevant authorities including the National Human Rights Commission, Abuja, Director General of DSS, the Inspector-General of Police, the Ministry of Education, management of University of Ibadan among others. Addressing journalists after staging a protest at the Bodija Housing Estate Mosque, Bodija, Chairman ISI Muslim Parents Forum, Alhaji Abdulrahaman Balogun said every effort by the parents to settle the matter out of court had proved abortive as the management of the school refuse to shift ground but insisted that the status quo on the uniform must be maintained. The protesting students who filled at the gate of the mosque after Friday Jumat Service said they will resist any attempt to deny their children their fundamental rights legally, legitimately and peacefully. Balogun said “The constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has given everyone the guarantee and any attempt to deny any of our children of any of such fundamental human right will be resisted legally, legitimately and peacefully. “We have two appellate judgements in the case of Lagos and Ilorin in support of hijab right and we are just awaiting the judgement of the supreme court on it. And we expect that a Nigerian and in a public-owned school, even if it is a privately owned school, you have to obey the constitution of the Federal Republic Nation. And this is our point. “In doing that peacefully, because the thing is now leading into a dangerous height, because when you are now attacking our kids, harassing the parents, then it is getting too dangerous, so we have petitioned the National Human Rights Commission, we have petition the DG DSS, we have petition the IG of Police and we have petition the Ministry of Education, even the University Authority. “It is my pleasure and honour to announce to you that we have refilled our case against the University of Ibadan, we have refilled our case against the management of ISI, we have refilled our case against Mrs Phebean Olowe and we have refilled our case against the DVC (Academic), Prof E.B. Ekanola and they would have been served the court proceedings.  We have filled 11 different cases in line with the details of the courts. “We had three meetings to settle out of court, we shifted ground and asked them to tell us the mode of dressing the school wants in terms of shape, mode, colour, size and others, but they are saying, no, the status quo must be maintained. “But the school rules and regulations of ISI, there is nothing there other than section 7 that says that student cannot wear hijab. There is nothing in the books that prevents our daughters or anybody willing for that matter to adorn hijab, let alone the constitution of the FRN. Even, if there is anything like that, the constitution of FRN supersedes any other enabling law. And if it was not contained there, then why are they harassing our girls?