Sorghum are considered as a “whole grain” and they are generally packed with nutrients such as protein, fiber, B Vitamins, antioxidants, and minerals. A diet rich in whole grains is said to have less risk of heart diseases, type 2 diabetes, obesity and cancer. A very good example of whole grain is Sorghum. Sorghum is a broad term for a group of grasses found in many tropical regions of the world. It has more than 30 different species but only one is harvested for human consumption; others are primarily used as fodder for animals. The specie for human consumption, sorghum bi-color, has its origin in Africa but can be found around the world as a staple food product.
It is a cereal grass having broad, corn like leaves and a tall, pithy stem bearing the grain in a dense terminal cluster. Sorghum is a very small but mighty grain, which is very rich in terms of its nutrients. It is considered the fifth most important cereal crop in the world, and it contains Vitamins like niacin, riboflavin, copper, calcium, phosphorus, potassium, and almost half the daily required intake of protein. Its numerous health benefits include: 1. Improves Digestion Fibre are known to help break down food easily, and sorghum is one best food for dietary fibre. It greatly improves the functionality of the digestive system. 2. Diabetes control Simple sugar is derived from the breaking down of carbohydrates. This happens in the body when there is high intake of carbohydrate. It breaks down in sugar combats the glucose level in the body, causing diabetes, and also worsening the case for diabetic patients. But the consumption of sorghum can help regulate insulin and glucose levels in the body die to the enzymes contained in the tannin-rich bran of the sorghum. 3. Improves bone health Due to high qualities of magnesium present in sorghum, the calcium level will adequately be maintained. Both magnesium and calcium helps bone tissue development and can speed up the healing of damaged and injured bones. These can prevent ailments like osteoporosis ( a disease occurring especially in woman following menopause, which the bones become extremely porous and subject to fracture ) and arthritis, thus keeping you active and healthy. 4. Increase blood circulation We should be informed that iron deficiency in the body can lead to developing anemia, but copper and iron can also be found in Sorghum and just as magnesium and calcium, copper helps to increase the absorption of iron in the body, which can will help to decrease the risk of developing anemia. With presence of iron and copper in the body, red blood cell development will be increased, which in turn boosts the circulation of blood in the body, stimulating growth of cells and repair and increasing hair growth. 5. Boosts Energy levels Vitamins B3, is the main component that transforms food into usable energy for the body, and Niacin which is also known as Vitamin B3 is a constitute of sorghum.