He takes delight in making others happy. He also enjoys solving people’s problems. Right from when he was a member of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Hon. Charles Okechukwu Anyanwu has made reaching out to people across generations one of his cardinal points. Southsouth Bureau Chief BISI OLANIYI reports that for many years, he has empowered the youth so that they could become self-reliant and that the NDDC chief’s aide most striking gestures were scholarships to some youths and a house he built for a blind widow in Etche. The great German Kent once said: “If you are in a position where you can reach people, then use your platform to stand up for a cause.” This is a true reflection of Hon. Charles Okechukwu Anyanwu who has been positively touching lives of many people in more ways than one. He is a man who has a sense of compassion, empathy, a sense of responsibility and keen in advancement of humanity. All his life, the Etche-born lawmaker, administrator, politician, businessman, leader, mentor and organiser has made reaching out to people across generations one of his cardinal points. For emphasis, Charlie, as he is popularly known among his friends and family members, is not the richest, neither is he the best, but he has been able to make sacrifices from the little he has, to make life better for other people. Recently, he gave cars, houses, financial grants and scholarships to youths across the nine states of the Niger Delta region, a gesture which was aimed at making life better for the beneficiaries. It is on record that long before holding any public office, he had sunk boreholes in various communities in Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State to mitigate the problem of water scarcity at the grassroots. This singular effort endeared him to the people, who commended him for his philanthropy. The Banking and Finance graduate of the Rivers State University of Science and Technology (now Rivers State University), Port Harcourt, is seen as one of the shining lights of his generation, particularly in the way and manner he has used all the offices he has held to impact on lives. Anyanwu began his political career when he was elected into the Rivers State House of Assembly to represent Etche Constituency 2. While in the House of Assembly, he remained one of the progressive members, giving insights and contributions to various bills, motions and debates on the floor of the House. Despite being a first-time member of the House of Assembly, he was quite influential and earned the respect of his colleagues, who saw him as a bridge builder and hardworking lawmaker in the House, then led by Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, who later became Rivers State Governor and Minister of Transportation. Besides being an active member of the House of Assembly, Anyanwu also made contributions to the educational development of his constituents, through constituency projects. Nelson Mandela had noted that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” Anyanwu influenced the construction of six-classroom blocks each for primary and secondary schools at Ulakwo, in addition to two town halls in the same community. It was the first time a member of the Assembly was doing that in the area. Not done with that, he also influenced the building of another six-classroom block in a primary school at Odufor, just as it was done at a secondary school in Egwi. The former member of the House of Assembly did not stop at that, he embarked on numerous empowerment programmes, including scholarships, financial grants, donation of cars and motorcycles. Till date, no other member of the House of Assembly from Etche has been able to match his record of achievements and direct impact on the people, 12 years after leaving office as a legislator. In view of his commitment to the administration of the then Governor Rotimi Amaechi, Hon. Anyanwu was twice appointed as the Caretaker Chairman of Etche Local Government Council, first from June to September, 2014 and later between February and May, 2015. One of the immediate challenges he experienced while in office was the deplorable state of Chokocho Road. Worried about the discomforting state of the road and the sufferings of the people, he hit the ground running. He was able to ensure smooth passage of people and farm products from the rural areas by reconstructing Chokocho Road. On the insecurity that he met on the ground, it is to his credit that he tackled it head on. He was able to get all the people involved to a roundtable and they accepted the amnesty offer. This singular effort brought about peace in Etche, which is still being enjoyed till today. Anyanwu also continued with his human capital development through scholarships, financial grants and donation of vehicles to some of those who are indigenous to the local government. In the light of this, Jillian Lauren said: “I know something about performing. I know that when it seems like the avalanche is about to roll over you, you face into it and keep both arms swimming as hard as you can. You smile and you sell it.” This perfectly fits Charlie, as the reward for good performance is more work to be done. In November 2016, he was appointed as the Special Adviser on Youth and Sports to the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He was reappointed in January this year, under the Prof. Nelson Brambaifa-led NDDC’s management. This latest portfolio provided another platform for Anyanwu to touch even more lives, as he has always loved to give opportunities to the youth to excel in all spheres of life as leaders of tomorrow. Since his appointment, the former legislator has taken compassion, empowerment and philanthropy to a new level, thus earning the sobriquet: “Mr. Touch Life.” His efforts have not only been touching lives, they have influenced generations. Touched by the plight of a blind wdow, Mrs. Regina Nwankwo of Etche, Mr. “Touch Life” built a house for her, just as he has done for other less-privileged people in the society. He has not stopped at that, he has also embarked on sustainable means of livelihood for many youths through the donation of over 20 cars to be used for earning income through hire services. To prove that his actions are not cosmetic, Mr. Anyanwu has set up Hon. Charles Anyanwu Foundation, which has already begun work. At present, two students from each of the wards in Rivers State, beginning from Etche and Omuma local government areas benefit from his scholarships. This is in addition to the empowerment of three widows per local government area in Rivers State, while the management of the Foundation is still working out other schemes. Not done with his reach out and touching of lives, Anyanwu has graciously assisted no fewer than 50 lawyers to attend the forthcoming National Conference of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). To ensure that youths in the Niger Delta find meaning, purpose and pursuit of their God-given talents in sports, his office, last year, organised the “Catch Them Young Football Competition” among the nine states that make up the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), namely: Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Imo, Ondo and Rivers, where each of the state winners travelled abroad for exposure and competition. Season two is in the pipeline and it promises to be illuminating. Fredrick Lenz had noted that “selfless giving does not imply superiority. Selfless giving is about love.” Nothing can be farther from the truth, regarding Hon. Anyanwu, who, out of the little God has given him, is reaching out to people. His good deeds have not gone without history keeping records. He is a recipient of many honours, including Certificate of Credence by Progressive Fellowship of Nigeria, Pre-Eminence and Excellence Award by the National Union of Etche Students (NUES), Merit Award by Rivers APC Students’ League, Most-Friendly Public Officer by Port Harcourt Comedy Club and Special Son of Honour Award on 2019 Mothering Sunday Thanksgiving by Mothers, among others. Many people have stated that if all office holders (either elected or appointed) can emulate Anyanwu, there will be less worries in the crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta and indeed, across the federation. In the words of Debi Mazar: “A hero is somebody who is selfless, who is generous in spirit. Who just tries to give back as much as possible and helps people. A hero, to me, is someone who saves people and who really deeply cares.”