The crux of this article is to critically examine and elucidate on the circumstances under which the National Assembly can carry out the functions of the House of Assembly of a state, with particular reference to the Edo State House of Assembly. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) is the Grud norm and the numero uno symbol as far as constitutionality and democratic governance is concerned. Any action that breaches or offends the spirit and letters of the Constitution will definitely be declared as an act of illegality by the court on whose shoulders lies the onerous task of interpreting the Constitution with finality. It is an established principle of law that no part of the Constitution should be read in isolation. In the case of Inakoju v. Adeleke, the Supreme Court had since held that to invoke a session of the Constitution, you must comply with the entire section in totality, a section of the Constitution cannot be read in part. Section 1(3) states that “if any other law is inconsistent with the provisions of this constitution, this constitution shall prevail, and that other law shall to the extent of the inconsistency be void”. The supremacy of the Constitution as provided by Section 1(1) of the Constitution is binding and sacrosanct. On June 17, 2019, the Edo State House of Assembly was inaugurated and a speaker in the person of Hon. Frank Okiye was elected. Although the propriety or otherwise of the inauguration is still being questioned by some members elect, and other interested parties, such issues in dispute can only be resolved with finality by the court. Therefore, this article seeks to examine the circumstances under which the National Assembly can take over the functions of the State House of Assembly. Only recently, some members elect of the Edo State House of Assembly had stormed the National Assembly, and there has been request for the National Assembly to take over the functions of the Edo State House of Assembly. Section 11(4) enumerates the circumstances under which the National Assembly can perform the functions of the House of Assembly of a state. While not trying to pre-empt the action of the National Assembly, however the House of Representatives had on Tuesday set up a 13-member Ad-hoc committee to investigate the crisis in the Edo State House of Assembly. Similarly, the Senate had indicated its desire to work with the House of Representatives to bring the crisis to an end. What is sacrosanct here however is the Constitutional provisions on the powers of the National Assembly over the House of Assembly of a State. Section 11(1,2,3) elucidates on circumstances that the National Assembly may make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Federation or any part thereof. Section 11(4) however empowers the National Assembly to make such law for the peace and good government of a State at any time when the House of Assembly of the State is unable to perform its functions. It states inter alia: “At any time when the House of Assembly of a State is unable to perform its functions by reason of the situation prevailing in that State, the National Assembly may make such laws for the peace, order peace, order and good government of that state with respect to matters on which a House of Assembly may make laws as may appear to the National Assembly to be necessary or expedient until such time as the House of Assembly is able to resume its functions; and any such laws enacted by the National Assembly pursuant to this session shall have effect as if they were laws enacted by the House of Assembly of the State: Provided that nothing in this session shall be construed as conferring on the National Assembly power to remove the Governor or the Deputy Governor of the State from office. It is necessary to assert that the situation contemplated here by the Constitution is not the same as in Edo State. However Section 11(5) crowns it all by stating thus: “For the purposes of subsection (4) of this session, a House of Assembly shall not be deemed to be unable to perform its functions so long as the House of Assembly can hold a meeting and transact business.” Constitutionally, the National Assembly cannot take over the business of the Edo State House of Assembly as is being agitated for in some quarters because section 11(5) of the Constitution provides that so long as the House of Assembly can hold a meeting and transact business, the powers of the National Assembly to take over its functions is not applicable. There is no question as to whether the Edo State House of Assembly is able to perform its functions because the House is holding meetings and transacting business as appropriate. To this end, whereas Section 11(4) of the Constitution empowers the National Assembly to carry out the functions of a House of Assembly of a State when such Assembly is unable to perform its functions by reason of the situation prevailing in the State, Section 11 (5) provides that so long as the House of Assembly can hold a meeting and transact business, the powers of the National Assembly to the effect of performing the functions of the House of Assembly of a State is not applicable. Certainly it cannot take over the functions of the State Assembly, as doing so would offend the spirit and letters of the Constitution as provided by Section 11(5) of the Constitution. At best, what the National Assembly can do in the Edo State Assembly issue is to meditate and find a common ground for the parties in dispute, as well as a lasting solution for the peace, order and good government of the State. 