A deafening sound of gunshots boomed at the weekend at Egbeda area of Ibadan, the Oyo state capital, causing panic and pandemonium as residents ran for cover to avoid needless bodily harm and injury. Many residents around the trouble zone were said to have remained indoors under lock and keys, while shop owners hurriedly closed their business and ran for safety. Two factions of the state chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) were alleged to taken to the streets, with guns , cutlasses and other dangerous weapons , as they engaged in violent clash. It was learnt that trouble started when a former chairman of the union in the state, Mukaila Lamidi (aka Auxiliary), in company of some of his men and two officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps invaded the house of an estranged aide, Musliudeen Muideen, with guns, axes and other dangerous weapons. It was gathered that apart from beating and shooting Muideen, members of his household including his brothers were dealt with, as residents who had sporadic gunshots fled. However, Auxiliary when contacted, denied the allegations, saying that the claim was not true. The NURTW chief alleging that some members of the union, were out to paint him in black for the Governor, Mr. Seyi Makinde to stop his impending announcement as the new NURTW chairman. Auxiliary who spoke through one of his aides, Alhaji Ahmed Raheem, said the allegation was an attempt to destroy his reputation, stating that as a peace loving person, he would never engage in acts that would bring disrepute to the state. Raheem disclosed that Auxiliary had intelligent report that some hoodlums were planing to attack people to tarnish his name and went there with the NSCDC officials to arrest them and subsequently handed them over to men of the state joint security task force. However the victim, Muideen confirmed the attack on him, while speaking with journalists on Sunday, saying that his house was invaded by six vehicles loaded with NURTW members and two NSCDC men brandishing dangerous weapons, stating that he if it were to be in the night he would have been killed. He added that after he was beaten to the point of death and his family members traumatized, he was driven to the headquarters of the state joint security task force, Operation Burst, and handed over to the state Commander. Another member of NURTW attacked, Kabiru Adekunle, said he bolted away from his house immediately he was informed by a source that the members of the union were heading towards his house. The duo then called on Governor Seyi Makinde, to save the state from being turned into a battle field with those they described as miscreants lording themselves over others. When contacted, the Commander of the Operation Burst, Captain Osolo, who confirmed that some NURTW men were brought to the outfit, said he released the men when he discovered that nothing incriminating was found on them.