The Central Naval Command (CNC) of the Nigerian Navy recently reminded its personnel of the importance of swimming skills to their survival, especially in the Niger Delta. Undoubtedly, swimming is the basic skill required in the Navy and it is expected that anybody working for the security outfit must be a good swimmer. Therefore, the CNC decided to organise a swimming competition to ensure that the officers and ratings had not forgotten their major survival skill. It was a three-day competition. Almost everybody participated in the exercise. They were divided into various teams to compete for laurels in the exercise that took place in Yenagoa, the state capital. Indeed, it was a test of proficiency. Also, swimming is now a compulsory requirement for promotion. So, each team struggled to outdo other men and women from the various formations as they showcased their skills. But at the end, Team Delta emerged the overall winner with 12 gold medals, five silver medals and one bronze medal. Team CNC took second position with five silver medals and two bronze medals. In his speech at the closing ceremony, Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) CNC, Real Admiral Saidu Garba, said the event was essentially to develop naval personnel’s competence and efficiency in operations. He said: “Essentially, the Central Naval Command and the NN has always sought to develop personnel competence and capacities for efficiency in operations. “The high competitive spirit witnessed in the last three days clearly demonstrates our personnel high spirit and ability. We have greatly looked forward to today when the competition would be rounded off. “I appreciate the support of the Bayelsa State Ministry of Sport, our friends in the sister services and other security agencies throughout the course of this competition. “Today’s event will definitely not have been a reality without your massive supports that the command has been enjoying. “All the men are from the Central Naval Command. The idea is to bring out all our personnel so that we will get the best out of them and hopefully we are looking forward to an inter-command swimming championship. “We are already picking our best swimmers, who will represent us during that championship. What we have come to do is just to sieve our best players and our best swimmers among them in the command. “Swimming, for us, is not just sport and competition. Swimming for us is survival asset. We operate in the maritime domain which means we are surrounded by water. “The Chief of Naval Staff has emphasised the need for all naval personnel to learn how to swim, so that they will be able to survive in case of an accident in the water or to operate effectively within the maritime domain. “Not only that it is now a compulsory asset or criteria for promotion, For our junior officers, they will be expected to meet up a minimum swimming standard before they are promoted. “Swimming competition is an annual thing. Apart from the intra-command swimming championship which we have just held, we are now going to have an inter-command swimming championship for the entire Navy where all of us will gather in a designated place to compete. “I am hoping that among the boys and girls that we have seen swim today, am sure we are going to get champions that will represent the command.” Also speaking, the guest of honour, Air Vice-Marshall Peter Uzezi, reiterated the value of physical fitness, saying it was one of the essential ingredients to be a soldier. He praised the Central Naval Command for organising such a huge competition, adding that the competition compelled the personnel to know themselves and allowed the command to know the level of fitness of its men. Highpoint of the event was the presentation of medals and trophies to deserving athletes and the overall winners.