The N500 billion recently activated Export Stimulation Facility by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is another of Emefiele’s avowed drive to reposition the economy to generate revenue for the government outside crude oil, reports Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has never minced words about his vision for expanding the productive capacity of the nation’s economy, in addition to his determination to pursue the apex bank’s mandate. From assumption of office in mid 2014, and to very recently when he unveiled his five-year plan after his reappointment for the second term by President Muhammadu Buhari, the CBN chief has remained resolute and unwavering that he will continue to churn out policies designed to create a robust business environment for operators in all segments.He tasked every sector of the economy to produce at its optimum capacity, with a view for every sector adding incrementally to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) and thereby shifting the economy away from being over dependent on crude oil output. The unveiled low interest rate N500 billion Export Stimulation Facility (ESF) for non-oil export, for example, dovetails into this agenda and  underlines Emefiele’s determination to push for other sectors, including manufacturing, mining, agro-allied industries, hospitality and entertainment, to be awakened to their responsibilities and start to contribute their quota meaningfully to the nation’s GDP in effort to gradually shift the productive and export base of the economy from oil, and ultimately expand government’s revenue collection and yielding base from mostly crude oil sources. While unveiling his  five-year plan just about a month now, Emefiele said  his vision would be to ensure that the Central Bank of Nigeria is more people-focused and that its policies and programmes would be geared towards supporting job creation and the need to support continued growth and development of the Nigerian economy. As he put it among other things, “my vision would be to ensure that the Central Bank of Nigeria is more people-focused, as its policies and programmes would be geared towards supporting job creation, improving access to credit for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), deepening our intervention programme in the agricultural sector, building a robust payment system infrastructure that will help drive inclusion, in addition to key macroeconomic concerns, such as exchange rate stability, financial system stability and maintaining a strong external reserve.” The N500 billion ESF which is critical in actualising the overall growth and output of the non-oil export quotient of the nation’s manufacturing sector, did not come as an afterthought, it was a deliberate policy designed to address gaps and noticeable deficits in the input needs of MSMEs in providing working capital, procure machinery and raw materials, as well as other consumables that would otherwise have been sourced at a considerably higher cost. The single digit lending rate provides great relief for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) operators accessing the funds. The recent fall in global oil prices, Emefiele said, triggered a sharp decline in the country’s revenue and foreign exchange earnings, pointing out that the facility was essentially designed to redress the nation’s declining exports by  repositioning  the sector to increase its contribution to revenue generation and economic development. The N500 billion is expected to help improve export financing and increase access of exporters to low interest credit and offer additional opportunities for them to upscale and expand their businesses in addition to improving their competiveness. According to the CBN, the ESF facility is meant to improve access of exporters to concessionary finance to expand and diversify the non-oil export basket, attract new investments and encourage re-investments in value-added non-oil exports production and non-traditional exports, shore up non-oil export sector productivity and create more jobs, support export oriented companies to upscale and expand their export operations,  as well as capabilities, diversify and increase the level of contribution of non-oil exports’ revenue towards sustainable economic development; and broaden the scope of export financing instruments, among others.  Eligibility Those eligible to participate under the scheme, include  Deposit Money Banks and Development Finance Institutions (DFIs). There is a stipulated Lending Limit as well. It is not expected to exceed 70 per cent of the total cost of the project or transaction, and it is subject to a maximum of N5 billion, with a tenor of up to 10 years, which would be most comforting for operators because of its long-term nature. Eligible transactions that shall qualify for funding under the ESF shall include, Export of goods wholly or partly processed or manufactured in Nigeria: Export of commodities and services, which are permissible and excluded under existing export prohibition list, imports of plant & machinery, spare parts and packaging materials, required for export oriented production that cannot be produced locally; Export value chain support services, such as transportation, warehousing and quality assurance infrastructure, resuscitation, expansion, modernisation and technology upgrade of non-oil exports industries band; Stocking Facility/Working capital.  Loan repayment Repayments of principal components of loans and interest shall be quarterly, while the Moratorium shall be project specific and shall not exceed two years. Also in the case of construction, additional moratorium of up to 12 months maybe allowed. However, this shall attract an additional fee of 0.25 per cent per annum of the loan amount. Interest Rates: The ESF shall be availed at an “all-in” Interest rate, based on risk based pricing model. Also, facilities with a tenor of up to three years would be granted at a maximum all-in interest rate of seven and half percent (7.5%) per annum, while facilities with tenor of over three  years, would be granted at a maximum all-in interest rate of nine percent per annum. The structure of interest computation under the ESF shall be, Participating Financial Institutions–maximum spread of six per cent per annum, while for the Managing Agent (NEXIM), it shall be per cent per annum. With oil revenue accounting for over 90 per cent of foreign exchange receipts, the contribution of non-oil exports to the country’s economic growth has been nothing to write home about. This is despite measures by the CBN over the years, including the use of minimum credit requirements and moral suasion, to change this narrative. Unfortunately, as empirical studies have shown, this is the situation in many oil-exporting countries still plagued by the Dutch Disease associated with the discovery of oil. Against this backdrop, the CBN’s move to reverse the declining trend in the flow of credit to the non-oil export sector through the activation of the N500 billion non-oil export stimulation facility, introduced about two years ago, is highly commendable. Besides the N500 billion ESF, the Emefiele-led CBN had initiated other successful intervention programmes designed to help diversify the economy. The Anchor Borrowers Programme and the Real Sector financing readily come to mind. The primary goal of the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), Emefiele had said, was to give verve to the agric sector so it can play its role as a primary source, of not only food security, but also as a foreign exchange earner, pre and post independence. He said if Nigeria had maintained its market dominance in the palm oil industry, which stood at 40 percent in the 70s, we would be earning above $20 billion annually from cultivation and processing of palm oil today. “This would have provided a sufficient buffer for our nation following the drop in crude oil prices. Our situation is further worsened by the unpatriotic activities of some unscrupulous individuals and businesses who embarked on massive smuggling and dumping of goods that can be produced in the country thus leading to the demise of our agricultural and manufacturing sectors and hence the attendant high level of unemployment, “ Emefiele said, pointing out that as Nigerians, we have a responsibility to reverse the current ugly trend where any external shock affecting oil producing countries bring us to our knees. To correct this trend and as part of our intervention programmes, the CBN chief said, “we launched the Anchor Borrowers Programme, which has improved access to finance for over one million small holder farmers, who are leading our efforts to improve cultivation of agricultural commodities, such as rice, tomatoes, fish, cotton and palm oil. The Anchor Borrowers Programme  also enabled agro-processors and manufacturers to source their inputs from local sources, rather than relying on the importation of these items.” We also deployed other intervention facilities  such as the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme, and the Real Sector Support Fund. These funds were used to channel single digit interest loans through our Deposit Money Banks and other Participating Financial Institutions to beneficiaries to support improved growth in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. The effectiveness of these interventions in supporting the growth of our local industries, has been supported by the apex bank’s forex restrictions on the importation of items that can be produced in Nigeria. Emefiele said the  CBN took the initiative to transcend its core mandate of maintaining monetary and price stability to also “cover developmental activities, especially in financial intermediation and resource allocation to those sectors.” He said the developmental finance initiative of the CBN has been hinged on the premise of economic growth, adding that concerted efforts were made to deepen credit delivery to the real sector.  “We have the conviction that the sector has sufficient employment capabilities, high growth potentials, likewise its significant contribution to foreign reserves, industrial base expansion and growth potential of the economy,” he stated. These schemes, working as a collective, one dovetailing into another like in an echo-system, are expected to provide the alternative to oil as the country’s major source of revenue that has been proven to be unsustainable and cannot be relied upon to stand the test of time.