NIGERIA lost her best and easily the simplest opportunity to lift the Africa Cup of Nations’ title penultimate Friday in Egypt. Nigeria would have been the Mecca of European scouts and managers, if Super Eagles players didn’t think through their pockets. This shameful attribute by our players has become our banana peel because no conscious attempt has been made to either punish the culprits or shun them. I won’t be surprised if the players want to compel the country to pay them a substantial part of the $2 million meant for third-place winners at the Africa Cup of Nations. Who owns the money? Players or Nigeria? Getting huge winning bonuses and other camping entitlements, the players should simply shut their eyes to the $2 million, except if it is specifically stated that the team should be given a certain percentage of the prize. Our players don’t forget such things, most times stoked by fifth columnists seeking relevance. The argument that an athlete’s sporting life is limited seems valid, yet, athletes don’t make money representing their countries. Representing one’s country opens new horizons. It follows, therefore, that players should be excited playing for this country when invited. They should stay out, honourably, if they feel dissatisfied. The Algerians, winners of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, were beatable only if the Super Eagles players were willing to play the socks wet like the Senegalese did, even though they lost. The Senegalese were not so skilful; they lacked many technical players, unlike the Eagles, who had all these attributes but chose the mercantile option, only to look confused during the third-place presentation. As the players mounted the podium for pictures with the dummy prize, you could see that they were in a trance, knowing rather late that they flunked it, when they could have written their names in gold. Had the Eagles brought home the trophy, Nigeria would have been in a carnival mood, with governors and deep pockets struggling to outdo one another with gifts and cash. I delayed writing on Nigeria’s performance in Egypt because I wanted to know what the winners and runners-up would be paid for their efforts. I almost beat the gun to write the article, when I read that nobody at the Presidency was ready to celebrate another ‘’golden’’ bronze medal, like we did in the past, under governments which condoned indiscipline. Eagles’ refusal to attend a pre-match press conference poured odium on the country. Even if they had wanted to protest, they could still with one of them accompanying the coach to the pre-match conference. Only fools won’t ask questions seeing Rohr unaccompanied to the press session, unlike their opponents who came with their coach and one player. When such a show of shame happened in South Africa, President Olusegun Obasanjo used his native intelligence in getting the truth by pulling aside some of the girls into the inner recess of Aso Rock, where they sang like kenari bird, exposing those who instigated them to misbehave. The Senegalese government gave each Teranga Lion $34,000 for their runners-up performance, after losing 1-0 to eventual winners of the title, Algeria. In the seven matches leading to the finals, the Senegalese got $17,000 each for all the games. They are not entitled any part of the $2.5 million prize for finishing second in the 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations. The cash belongs to the federation, not the players. It is true that no two countries can be same. But our players should know that after getting over $75,000 each for our seven matches, inclusive of their third-place game, they shouldn’t create any scene anywhere in the world, before and during competitions. Players who have issues with the federation from previous competitions should be asked to stay.