The Nigeria Bar Association(NBA), has blamed traditional rulers for the present security challenges afflicting the country. The Body regretted how the traditional rulers have allowed their domains to become safe haven for criminals, describing them as the closest institution to the grassroots. The chairman, NBA Ikere chapter, Ekiti State, Oludayo  Olorunfemi, spoke in Ikere  Ekiti on Thursday during a press conference heralding the maiden edition of the branch’s law week commencing from July 22. Olorunfemi insisted that community policing is the best option against kidnapping and killing, saying it will be difficult for the country to get out of the precipice being witnessed in the nation with the current security architecture being firmly controlled by the government at the centre. The NBA boss, however, urged the Federal government to quickly concede to the much-agitated community policing as the solution to stem the tide of senseless killings being experienced across the nation. She also opposed to the agitation that there should be special courts to try corruption cases in Nigeria, saying the present judicial arrangement was enough to handle cases bordering on graft. “We believe the community policing is the best option against these killings that are affecting everybody. Most of those who ought to attend our programme have declined because of the killing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin, which makes Ekiti and Ondo axis looked unsafe. “Two members of NBA in Ekiti have been killed by bandits. When we lost the Secretary of this branch last year December, it was tragic to us. The family is yet to recover from it. “Our traditional rulers should not allow criminals to use their towns as dens for evil doing. It seems our traditional rulers are folding their arms. Apart from the state security apparatuses, they are the closest to the people. Ekiti is known land of Omoluabi and honour. It should not be a comfortable area for criminals. “Community policing is the best option, you don’t expect the police or soldiers who don’t understand the terrain or who were brought from outside to fish out criminals. What are the local hunters doing?”, the NBA boss asked? Olorunfemi, however, urged the Federal government to quickly concede to the much-agitated community policing as the solution to stem the tide of senseless killings being experienced across the nation. She added that the present judicial arrangement was sufficed to adjudicate on issues of corruption, saying there are laid down rules on how to deal with corruption-related cases. “All we need to do is to enforce the laws. The laws are there and once it is interpreted by the judiciary, we must over them. So, the judiciary as constituted is okay to handle corruption cases”. Olorunfemi stated that part of the programme would be Wole Olanipekun Public lecture that would be delivered by the Ekiti State’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Wale Fapohunda. She added that lawyers from the branch will also give free legal and health services to residents of Ikere Ekiti and environs, as part of the five days event.