LOOKING at the ministerial list of President Muhammadu Buhari shows something quite clearly: soldiers appear capable of playing politics better than professional politicians. They can balance the act better when they so choose. Take a second look at the list and you will see that a soldier-politician in whose veins Fulani blood flows can be a deft schemer. The Maradonic magic for which Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida was renowned as military President, appears not to have completely disappeared from the Aso Villa seat of government in Abuja. In Kwara, Buhari, for example, quickly erased a rising misconception in Kwara that he and Tinubu wanted to wipe out the Senior Saraki’s dynasty in Ilorin. If that misconception persists into one year of the Abdulrazaq’s reign in Kwara, the APC would be having one helluva battle to contend with, given the reverence and awe in which the original Oloye is held till date in Kwara. By elevating another Saraki, now Gbemisola, to the centre stage of national affairs as minister, the message is clear that the “O to ge” sing-song is primarily meant to halt Bukola Saraki and not to hurt the Oloye dynasty that took a lot of effort, money and charisma to build for over 30 years. That, to this column, is quite ingenious. Delta’s scenario is another interesting one. The battle for the Delta ministerial slot was hitherto between former governor Uduaghan and serial governorship gladiator, Great Ogboru, from the two major blocs of the state. The duo have large followings and huge war chests, but Buhari settled for his own campaign spokesman, the younger but more cerebral Festus Keyamo, apparently to lessen the tension in that oil-rich state. If Godswill Akpabio didn’t get the Akwa Ibom slot, it would have amounted to a travesty of justice, given his role in weakening the PDP from where he came and his yeoman’s efforts to snatch his state for the APC. In Kano, Buhari dumped General Abdulrahman Dambazzau for another Kano General, Bashir Magashi, to retain his hold on his military constituency. Magashi’s name is more linked to the military activities that preceded the current civilian dispensation that began in 1999, and those in the know talk of his street-wise disposition in military affairs. He looks poised to be our next minister of defence. Across the South West, it is evident Bola Tinubu still holds the ace with the appointment of Niyi Adebayo (Ekiti), Rauf Aregbesola (Osun), Sunday Dare (Oyo) and Senator Alasoadura (Ondo), but it is clear Buhari tried to do some balancing act with Lagos and Ogun. Appointing Senator Ibikunle Amosun’s man, Lekan Adegbite over Osoba’s and or Governor Dapo Abiodun’s nominee is damning enough, if it doesn’t encourage conflict between personal relationship and party fidelity/discipline which he seemed to have resolved with the dumping of former Lagos Governor Akinwunmi Ambode who, if press speculation or permutation or promotion in the last one and a half months offered any yardstick to measure with, looked a banker-bet to emerge as minister from Lagos. Let it not escape mention that if Ambode had hearkened to the words of wisdom in my piece “Who did this to Governor Ambode” published in this column on Saturday, September 29, 2018 and subsequent others in the social media, he would not have ended rubbished as the outcome of the ministerial jostling and juggling had proved. Do I hear someone say one critic (who is objective) is miles to be preferred to hundreds of sycophants and bootlickers who lick the sputum of any ruler who happens to be in power but are first to transfer their allegiance to the new ruler of the Government House once the previous occupant falls from power due to his bunglings, which they aided and abetted? That said, the ministerial list is a mixed grill (of bacon, sausages, tomatoes and mushrooms), and how they taste in people’s mouths waits to be experienced. One prays they taste salacious. We can, therefore, wish the new Buhari team well in their less than four-year term.  Melaye’s prophetic words Was it the Psalmist who said God moves in mysterious ways, His wonders to perform; His purposes ripen fast, unfolding every hour? He could not have been more apt, especially recalling a brilliant but undisguisedly mischievous remarks of theatrical Senator Dino Melaye at the valedictory service of the 8th Senate presided over by his overtly ambitious boss, Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki. In a tone laced with sarcasm, he spoke of Senator Godswill Akpabio being missed in the 9th Senate because the Akwa Ibom guy lost his bid to return to the new Senate to which Dino had just won re-election; but added a derisive clincher that he was sure he and Akpabio (as an ordinary citizen) would still meet on the streets of Abuja. Dino did not know that, by that comment of last May, and unknown to him, he was being used by God for the fulfilment of His prophecy on Akpabio’s life. In local church parlance here, the mockery of Akpabio soon turned to merry-making as things played out on the floor of the hallowed Chamber of the 9th Senate last Wednesday. The Yoruba call it “Yeye to di ayeye”. Truly, God indeed moves in mysterious ways, His wonders to perform! Akpabio, in God’s own way of proving that He is not man and that He is the Lord of lords, returned to the hallowed chamber in the month of fulfilment, not as an ordinary citizen (as Dino wished in May), but as a ministerial nominee of President Buhari (in fulfilment of God’s prophecy released through the mouth of Dino). The interesting link missing here is that the chairman at that valedictory speech who presided over the theatrics of Dino, at which one of his colleagues raised a point of order but which was shrugged off by Senator Bukola Saraki, was, by that Wednesday, long gone from the exalted seat of the President of the Senate. It would have been interesting to know how the ex-Senate President felt at that development and that of his sister, Gbemisola, who also appeared on the floor of the Senate to face screening as a minister of the Federal Republic. Moral of this is clear: let no man play God and mock temporary reversals of fellow men!  So, Jakande is not a national honours recipient? Until APC chieftain, former governor of Ogun State and former president of the Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria, Chief Segun Osoba reminded us the other day, many citizens were unaware that Nigeria’s best-ever governor, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, has not yet been given a national honour by any administration. It is a shame that a man who first put Nigeria’s name on the world map as the first black man to become the president of the global International Press Institute (IPI) in the 70s, and whose education template as the Lagos State governor won the universal acclaim of UNESCO in 1980 which recommended it as the model for all third world countries then, is not yet considered for a national honours. I want to believe it is an omission. And like Osoba admonished in his remarks at the occasion of Jakande’s 90th birthday anniversary celebration in Lagos on Tuesday, the error of omission should be corrected soonest, with at least a Commander of the Federal Republic’s national honours award. Its conferment on the exemplary public figure will only enhance the Federal Government’s image, not diminish it. Without it, Jakande is more celebrated than majority of those on the nation’s honours roll, some of who, if it were in more ordered societies, should be cooling their heels in jail for the several atrocities committed against the Nigerian society.