In line with consolidating Nigeria’s position on the global internet governance forum, groups, IT experts, relevant stakeholders in the communication ministry and ICT related sectors on Thursday advocated for advancement in the digital future of Nigeria. The Nigeria Internet Governance Forum 2019 which was centered on policy dialogue on issues of internet governance held at Muson Center, Lagos and had different IT experts in attendance with the theme as ‘Enabling digital commonwealth for development’. The Ministry of Communication has disclosed that ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the government would partner with stakeholders in the information and communication technology (ICT) sector to curb the loss of billions of naira to importation of technology by ensuring digital inclusion for local internet initiative. The permanent secretary, Ministry of Communications, Istifanus Musa Mik Fuktur, represented by the director of ICT at the ministry, Moni Udoh, while speaking at the event disclosed that the ministry in conjunction with other parastatals especially the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) was set to curb billions of naira loss to technology importation. She stated that the target was to ensure digital inclusion for local internet initiative through education by discussing ways the internet can be used to address the development in achieving the SDGs. Also speaking at the event, the executive chairman of Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Danbatta, represented by Engr. Chidi Diugwu, stated that the Internet Governance Forum was established in July 2006 for policy dialogue on issues and programmes that shape the evolution and use of the Internet. At the panelist workshop session, information Technology (IT) experts urged internet users to be mindful of what they post online so as to ensure their safety. The experts deliberated on “Cybersecurity and Trust: Enabling People-centered Data Protection and Privacy Regulations” during the workshop session. Dr Dimie Wariowei, the Director, Cybersecurity of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) said that what one uploaded online could be used for criminal acts. Wariowei said that people were now using digital means to transact businesses, accessing banking activities through the phones every day. He said that there were a lot of challenges associated with such actions, hence, users had to be careful. Mr Emmanuel Edet from the Federal Ministry of Justice said that personal data protection was key to being safe online. Edet said that there were different laws in Nigeria that protected people’s data, hence, should be leveraged on. He said that personal data should be protected so that they would not be misused by others.