Justice Mohammed Idris of a Federal High Court in Lagos, Monday, informed parties that he has been authorised by fiat to conclude the fraud trial of a former Governor of Abia, Orji Kalu. Kalu was charged before Idris on an alleged N7.2billion fraud brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The EFCC is prosecuting Kalu, his former Commissioner for Finance, Jones Udeogu, and his company, Slok Nigeria Ltd, on an amended 39 count charge of fraud-related offences. EFCC had on Oct. 31, 2016, preferred a 34 count charges, bordering on N3.2 billion fraud against the accused. The charges were, however, subsequently amended, and the charges increased to 39 counts. Justice Idris, had presided over trial in the suit but was subsequently elevated to the court of Appeal. In spite of his elevation, he was issued a fiat to continue trial of Kalu but the fiat expired in November 2018. Meanwhile, President of the Appeal court on July 8, issued a fresh fiat for Justice Idris to return and conclude the trial. Without a renewal of the fiat, Justice Idris who now sits on appellate jurisdiction cannot continue his sitting in the lower court. When trial resumed on Monday, Mr Rotimi Jacobs,SAN, announced appearance for the EFCC while Mr Awa Kalu, SAN, appeared for the first defendant and was the only defence counsel appearing on record. Justice Idris then said “Just to brief counsel that by a fiat dated July 8, the president of the court of Appeal has directed that I conclude this part-heard matter; trial will now run from day to day until we finish,” The prosecutor then informed the court that he was prepared to proceed with trial, but in response, defence counsel told the court that he was constrained. According to him, after receiving the hearing notice, he had informed the court of his inability to attend following his participation in the election petition matters, which are constrained by time. He said that the constitutional timing for election petitions cannot be extended by any court, adding that even counsel to the second and third defendant were not in court. He told the court that he had to personally run to Lagos to make explanations adding that the case file was not also in his possession. After explaining all his constraints, he prayed the court to grant an adjournment to a later date. Responding, the prosecutor insisted that the defence opened its case for some progress to be made before an adjournment is granted. Defence counsel in reaction agreed to open its case but said that it should be on record that the defendant will give evidence from the dock instead of the witness box. In the dock, Kalu was not sworn on oath, and he began his evidence. Defence asked him to tell the court his name, address and occupation. In response, the defendant introduced himself as Orji Uzor Kalu, and said that he resided at No. 5 Queen Amina, Asokoro, Abuja. On what he does for a living he said “About few weeks ago, I was a Manufacturer of home goods but now a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” According to him, “Home goods like Maggi and Tomatoes,” He confirmed that he was standing trial on the criminal charge and had pleased not guilty to same. Kalu also confirmed that he was standing trial alongside two other co-defendants. At this point, defence told the court that he was totally handicapped to continue with examination, and sought an adjournment.
Continue on Page 2