The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) yesterday released a report titled: ‘Next Steps for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA )’. It is an assessment of the regional integration efforts in Africa. Excerpts: The historic signing of the AfCFTA Agreement on 21 March 2018 marked a momentous milestone for regional integration in Africa. The signing strongly indicated commitment by policy makers and African leaders to regional integration. Regional integration faces challenges. They include limited energy and infrastructure development, insecurity and conflicts, multiple and overlapping membership of RECs, poor sequencing of the regional integration arrangements and limited financial resources. Africa’s large infrastructure deficit hinders intra-regional trade. Infrastructure financing can be supported by maximising the use of public–private partnerships, tapping into national resources and using regional and global infrastructure development funds and innovative financing tools. Regional energy integration through power pools can attract considerable investment in energy. Africa’s governance, peace and security challenges are inextricably linked and are prerequisites to establishing a continental-wide economic space.  Policy recommendations   Taking Full Advantage of the AfCFTA  To take full advantage of the AfCFTA, countries must buttress its implementation with complementary measures in investment, production, trade facilitation, trade-related infrastructure and import defence. Action Menu for Investment Facilitation and (3) partnerships with other African countries to learn from their experiences and with UNCTAD and ECA for support with UNCTAD investment policy reviews and UNCTAD/ECA online investor guides.  Intellectual Property  (a) arrangements for regional cooperation and sharing of experiences on IP rights in general; (b) regional filing systems, usually for patents, but also for trademarks and industrial designs; and (c) development of one substantial law or unification of laws for members of a regional organisation. Different parts of Africa have experience with all three of these models. b Provide for non-discrimination among nationals of States parties on matters of IP rights.