Five suspected armed robbers and 72 alleged cultists were on Sunday arrested by operatives of the Lagos State Police Command in different areas of the state. The armed robbers according to a statement by spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) were arrested at about 1:30pm on Friday behind Angle 90 Bar, Ilasan in Lekki. Elkana said the police had received distress call on the presence of suspected armed robbers, cultists at the place and quickly deployed men there were alleged leader of the gang. Ibrahim Abu, 32, and four others identified as Samuel Usai, John Nwaru, Emmanuel Moro, and Michael Daniel were arrested. “On searching the suspects, one locally made pistol with 10 cartridges were recovered. Investigation is ongoing, suspects will be charged to court,” said Elkana. Similarly, the Police arrested 72 suspected cultists comprising 34 Awawa Boys at Akerele in Agege and 38 others at Idiroko in Ikorodu following clashes in the areas. Elkana said the Awawa boys were arrested on July 17, at about 8:30am and seven bags of suspected marijuana recovered from their hideout. “The suspects were handed over to Taskforce, Oshodi for prosecution. The 38 others were arrested on July 16 around 9:30am after youths from Idiroko, Adeola and Ajose in Owutu, Ikorodu, engaged themselves in supremacy fight. “In the process, the youths attacked passersby and damaged some vehicles within the area. However, combined teams of policemen mobilised to the scene, successfully brought the situation under control and restored normalcy to the area. “Thirty-eight suspects were arrested and taken to Taskforce, Oshodi for prosecution. Security has been beefed-up in the area to forestall further threat to law and order. “On July 20, at about 9:45pm, Bariga Police Station arrested one Alayakin Azeez Olawale, 32, at Egbenrogde Street. The suspect was identified as the leader of a group of Aiye confraternity members that had earlier in the day attempted to cause a breach of peace within bariga town. Investigation in ongoing, suspect will be charged to court.”