Residents of Oworonshoki, Lagos were upbeat when Rotary Club, Gbagada South led by the Rotary International District 9110 Governor Dr Jide Akeredolu and the club’s President Dare Olutayo Olusegun came to the community to inaugurate some amenities. The amenities included a renovated borehole, furniture, installation of Rotary wheel and four-way Test and donation of empowerment tools to some traders. At Buxton Cole Street, Olusegun praised the residents for maintaining the borehole 12 years after its installation. He said some communities do not care to maintain the items donated to them by Rotary. He assured them of more amenities during his tenure, tasking them on the borehole’s constant maintenance. Inaugurating a new borehole, Akeredolu also praised the residents for taking care of it.  He said part of his visit, was to do a needs assessment of the community, promising to give priority to them. Speaking on behalf of the residents, Alhaji Alishibau Bello thanked Rotary for the gesture. The club donated a set of 50 desks and chairs each to Evas Adelaja Girls Senior Secondary School.  Olusegun described the visit as a home-coming, having been to the school many times to either make donations or hold seminars.  A representative of the state Education District II Mayowa Omisope, Vice Principal (Administration) Mrs Oluyinka Soyoye and her Academics counterpart Mrs Oduyemi Adeyemi expressed satisfaction with the items. They described the donation as commendable, laudable, timely and good. A representative of the pupils, Badmus Fatai, an SSII pupil, added: ‘’We thank Rotary for the donation.’’ Akeredolu expressed joy that the club was popular in Oworonshoki, noting that the objective of Rotary is to touch lives. He said government could not do it alone. He advised the school management to make judicious use of the items. Earlier, Akeredolu was at the palace of the Oloworo of Oworonshoki Oba Bashiru Oloruntoyin Olorundupefun Salau, where he was received by a team led by Aremo Nurudeen Salau and Bashorun Jelil Lawal, who also noted the presence of Rotary in the kingdom, especially at the public primary and school schools. Lawal scored Rotary 100 per cent in projects execution in the community. Akeredolu round off the visit with the opening the club’s Wheel and four-way test at the Olojojo Roundabout and donation of empowerment tools to some traders.