The Comptroller-General of Customs (CGC) Strike Force team in the zone seized contraband with over N118 million DPV between May and last month, its Coordinator, Deputy Comptroller Usman Yahaya, has said. He praised his team for using available resources to improve the revenue collection in the zone and also suppress smuggling. A breakdown of the seized items include 6,580 bags of 50kg rice, 1,292 kegs of 25 litres vegetable oil, 1,607 cartons of frozen poultry, 17 bales of second hand clothing, and used vehicles – one unit of Peugeot 206 and one unit of Fiat bus. Yahaya said five trucks loaded with contraband foreign rice (50kg each) were intercepted along Badagry creek. He warned smugglers to stay clear of Zone A and embrace the Federal Government’s business policy. In another development, operatives of the Federal Op-erations Unit (FOU), Zone A of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) have seized drugs, vehicles, donkey skin and other goods with over N1.7 billion duty paid value (DPV). The unit’s Controller, Aliyu Mohammed, told reporters of his men’s resolve to keep the anti-smuggling tempo high, despite the death of an officer last week. Mohammed said a 2019 bullet-proof Toyota Land Cruiser with N189 million DPV and 15 other high-profile vehicles with N469,702,179 DPV were seized from smugglers in one month. Also seized were 1157 cartons of banned codeine syrup worth N405 million; 347 cartons of codeine worth N173.5 million; 348 cartons of diclofenac tablets worth N27.8 million; 1,056 cartons of chest and lungs tablets worth N105,600,000; 49 cartons of paracetamol injections worth N39.2 million and 220kg of substance suspected to be cannabis. Donkey skin in 820 sacks worth N77.9 million, new and used textile materials, body lotion, shoes, spaghetti, machetes and used tyres were among the seized items displayed. According to Mohammed, while some of the seized drugs were prohibited, others were not registered by the National Agency for Food Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), making them unfit for consumption. Mohammed, who showed how smugglers pack rice in cement trucks, added that his men seized over 25,000 bags. ‘’We also have over 25,000 bags of 50kg rice which were seized in the same period . Some of the rice are in our approved checkpoints awaiting evacuation to this place. ‘’Look at how cement has rubbed all over the bags of rice. This is why we always ensure that NAFDAC certifies any rice we are giving to internally displaced persons (IDPs) and orphanages. NAFDAC confirmed to us, during some of our due diligence, that some of the rice were not even fit for animal consumption. “You can see cement mixing with rice. This, obviously, will be injurious to human and animal health, if consumed ‘’We are advising Nigerians to patronise our locally grown rice. I personally believe that Nigeria has achieved self sufficiency in rice production and we shall continue to seize these rice and other prohibited items to safeguard the health of our people ‘’The donkey skin we are seizing is also to protect endangered species. If we allow people to keep killing them because their leather is in high demand elsewhere, we may not have the animal again. We uncovered this recent donkey skin seizure in a building around Alaba Rago. ‘’Our anti-smuggling will always be high. We have mapped out strategies to keep making more seizures. I won’t disclose our strategies because they are operational secrets, but I can  assure you that we will continue to take smugglers unaware and arrest them,’’ he said. 