Medview Airline is stepping up its game to consolidate its position as one of the leading operators the country, its Managing Director Chief Executive Officer, Munner Bankole, has said. Part of the strategy to regain its position, Bankole said, is the re- introduction of three aircraft into its fleet to boost its domestic operations. The airline, he said, had secured credit facilities from a financial institution to undertake the maintenance of one of its aircraft at Aero maintenance base in Lagos. Besides fixing of the aircraft, Bankole said other airplanes undergoing major maintenance in Israel and Estonia would soon be on ground in Lagos. He said: “Medview airline is one of the airlines approved by the Federal Government for hajj operations. We have 17 states and we have covered 15, we signed a contract to airlift a lot of pilgrims for 2019. We got a loan from First bank so, we got the B777-200 aircraft for the company. The aircraft would be used to commence hajj operations in Kaduna by July 10 and we have a total of 10,600 pilgrims from Kaduna, we expect a turnaround in 2019.” On domestic operations, Bankole said: “We have three classic aircraft, which are all due for C-check at the same time. One was in Israel, another was in Estonia and third was flying, but we got the money from the bank to put the second aircraft to use and so, it has been taken to Aero Maintenance base, I assure you that the third aircraft would soon be on ground because domestic operations is our major market, we promise to do more than expected. He continued: “Expect a beautiful operations when the three aircraft would be fully operational soon and each aircraft would be yielding about N376 million in a month. We also assured you that we will not lease aircraft, therefore, we are working with a strategic partner in order to get a new aircraft into our fleet. Fifty cabin crew have already completed their recurrent training while 10 workers have been recalled to join the training in preparation for operations.” Bankole, who disclosed that Medview has signed an agreement with Ethiopian Airline on maintenance of its B777 aircraft, explained that the company has disposed one of its aircraft because of huge maintenance cost. “The management took a decisive response and disposed the aircraft for the benefit of the company. As I have always stated, the Board and management are continually seeking to achieved the best growth for the company and Medview is firmly on the path to improved performance, sustained growth, profitability and adequate returns to all stakeholders within the shortest possible period of time,” he said.