In its bid to assist in addressing the challenge of unemployment, the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) Limited has trained over 500 Cross River State youths  in life, business and networking skills as part of its Social Corporate Responsibilities (CSR). Speaking at a programme for participants in Calabar, the Director, Public Affairs and Communication of the company, Mr. Ekuma Eze said it was designed to support young unemployed people between the ages of 18 and 30 to build life skills and business skills as well as long-lasting networks to transition to meaningful employment by 2020. “Nigeria, being a key market in the Hellenic Group, is expected to reach the greatest number of youths by 2020. The programme is expected to run through two different but complementary channels which are life training workshops and e-learning modules on the platform of the Digital Hub. The life training workshop comprises a one-day life workshop and three-day business skills workshop, all running at a stretch,” he said. Eze said a key component of the project is mentoring where system associates as well as external resource people who possess the knowledge, experience and passion for imparting young people will be engaged as mentors. He said it was a purely a voluntary exercise and mentors would be physically present at life workshops as well as maintain contacts with the participants. According to him, the life skills training workshop is designed to enable participants to understand who they are, their strengths  and  developmental opportunities  as well as  provide  them with the platform for  interacting with others. He said: “The business skills workshop is designed to prepare participants with essential skills for the business environment. Here, participants are expected to acquire skills to approach a business context, acquire basic language and essential knowledge to run own businesses, while the Digital Hub provides opportunities for participants that are unable to attend the life workshops to go through the same experience and training online. This innovative offering provides the training curriculum through e-learning and networking opportunities.” Mr. Eze noted that NBC has mainstreamed community trust into its corporate strategy which drives the business to invest time, expertise and resources in locally relevant initiatives to facilitate socio-economic development of communities. The Obong of Calabar, His Eminence, Edidem Ekpo Abasi Otu, represented by Etubom Edem-Ita Essien urged the participants to take advantage of the opportunity offered to  them. The monarch commended NBC for its support and partnership in tackling unemployment menace ravaging the country.