Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Sunday transmitted a list of Commissioner-designates and Special Advisers to the House of Assembly for ratification. The list contains 25 persons due to assume duty as Commissioners and Special Advisers upon ratification by the Assembly. Here are a quick bio-data on the names in the list: Rabio according to his twitter and Linkedln handle profile is a Certified Fraud Examiner, Experienced Chief Audit Executive, Adjunct Professor and Authorised Trainer of The ACFE in West Africa, an anti-fraud organisation and premier provider of anti-fraud training and education. Folashade is an educationist with more than 20-year experience in the sector. She is a principal consultant/CEO at Leading Learning Limited, a company she founded herself in 2014. Prof. Emeritus Abayomi is a specialist in Internal Medicine, Oncology, Environmental Health and Biosecurity. Akin studied at the Royal Medical College of Saint Bartholomew’s Hospital in the University of London where he attained his first graduate degree in Medicine and progressing to obtain fellowships from both Royal College of Medicine in the United Kingdom and the College of Medicine of South Africa. Idris is the Managing partner at Adesanya Salako and Associates. He is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP) and a member at the Town Planning Registration Council of Nigeria (TOPREC). Bello, according to his profile on Bloomberg served as worked with various companies like First Bank of Nigeria, Concord Press Nigeria Ltd., St. Petersburg Times, Florida USA, to mention just a few. The former commissioner and immediate Secretary to the State Government (SSG) had various publications to his credit ranging from business to politics. He is a member of the following bodies: Nigerian Bar Association, Nigerian Society of International Law, Nigerian Guild of Editors, Nigerian Union of Journalist, and Civil Liberty Organisation. Gbenga is an award-winning journalist and Editor of The Nation Newspaper. She is a barrister turned politician. She is also the Assistant Legal Adviser, All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos State. Dada is the former Vice-Chairman of Apapa Local Government, a position she held twice. She is a 1991 graduate of the Lagos State University graduate of Industrial Chemistry with a Masters in Corporate Governance from the Leeds Metropolitan University, United Kingdom. Olalere is an acknowledged power sector expert responsible for creating partnership strategies that guide new business and infrastructure development. He has a BSc. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Ibadan and an MBA in Investment Management and Information from Pace University, New York. Oladeinde is the Head of Corporate and Investment Planning Department of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA). He joined LAMATA in 2008 as Technical Adviser and head of Transport Planning. He holds a Ph. D. degree in Transport Planning from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine in the United Kingdom. He began his career as a transport consultant in Oscar Faber Consulting in London, United Kingdom before joining the Department for Transport, UK as a Senior Transport Planning Adviser where he was responsible for advising the British government on the impact of various transport policies. Lawal is the immediate past Commissioner of Housing and a former Commissioner of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Lagos State. A seasoned security & development practitioner and socio-entrepreneur, he has deep understanding for political economy of development, especially in low and medium-income economies. Ajayi is a Chartered Accountant. Dr. Ahmed is a Medical doctor and a member, Nigerian Medical Association, Society for International Relations & Diplomacy and Nigerian Red Cross Society. He is a one-time Commissioner for Special Duties and Assembly member who sponsored the motion for free treatment of accident victims within the first 24 hours. He is a first-class litigator. In recognition of his excellence in this regard the Legal Practitioners Privileges Committee, chaired by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, the Hon. Justice Aloma Mukhtar GCON conferred Mr. M.J. Onigbanjo with the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria on 23rd September 2013. Fahm is an ICT specialist and a former Commissioner for The Ministry of Science and Technology. He is also a Network Infrastructure Director. Mrs. Ponnle is an accomplished Consultant, Executive Coach and Organisational Psychologist. She has a B.Sc. in Economics from the University of Ibadan and a M.Sc. in Organisational Psychology from the University of London. She has over 22 years’ experience in various fields having worked in companies such as Arthur Andersen (now KPMG International) and British American Tobacco. With a combined experience in Human Capital development of over 14 years, Ponnle has worked extensively with leaders and teams in both private and public sectors with focus in the area of learning and development, leadership and team development, diversity and inclusion and change management. 18. Mr. Segun Dawodu Dawodu is a former Commissioner of Sports in Lagos. 19. Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf Uzamat is a Pharmacist, Politician and the immediate past Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State She had her primary education at Ansar-Ud-Deen Primary School, Ile Ife from 1980-1986. On completion she gained admission into the Seventh Day Adventist Grammar school Ile Ife between 1987-1992 after which she was admitted to University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos for her B.Pharm graduating in the year 2006. 20. Mr. Sam Egube Egube is the Board Chairman of CeLD Innovations Limited. He is an engineer with significant banking experience. He is also an author and socially smart entrepreneur whose carrier runs through a significant number of local and international institutions. His banking sojourn as management staff and consultant cuts through top Nigerian banks including, United Bank for Africa Plc, NNB International Bank Plc, First Bank of Nigeria Plc and Diamond Bank Plc. 21rincess Aderemi Adebowale Princess Adebowale, founder of Remindales Healthcare Agency, is a one-time freelance journalist and politician. She is a former aspirant of the Epe Federal constituency in the House of Representatives. 22. Mr. Tunbosun Alake Tunbosun is General Manager, IT & Innovation at Filmhouse Cinemas Nigeria. He is a media executive with experience building Online streaming platforms, passionate about data. 23. Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo Ayantayo is a crime and fictional writer turned politician. A graduate of Mass communications from the University of Lagos, Ayantayo has been writing from an early age. 