This year’s International Museum Day has come and gone with museums all over the world marking the day in one form or the other. The National Museum, Abeokuta under the curatorship of Mr. Gabriel Okoh celebrated the day with schools’ debate, drama, cultural dances and a lecture delivered by Sir Martins Akanbiemu, the Resident Curator of Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta while the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library museum on its part marked the day with a talk on the Artistic Traditions of Nigeria also delivered by its Resident Curator as well as cultural dances. Every year since 1977, the International Council of Museums (ICOM) has organised the International Museum Day (IMD) which represents a unique moment for the international museum community.  ICOM is the umbrella organisation for museums and museum professionals with a global scope, committed to the promotion and protection of the natural and cultural heritage of mankind; past, present and future, tangible and intangible. ICOM’s commitment to culture and knowledge is reinforced by the 31 International Committees dedicated to a whole range of museum specialities, who conduct advanced research in their respective fields for the benefit of the museum community. The organisation is also involved in fighting illicit trafficking; assisting museums in emergency situation and more. The organisation through its Advisory Council chooses the theme for the museum day celebration while coordinating the event every year. The event highlights a specific theme that changes every year that is at the heart of the international museum community’s preoccupation. IMD provides opportunity for museum professionals to meet with the public and alert them as to the challenges that museum face. Indeed, in tandem with the definition of a museum as provided by ICOM as ‘a non-profit, permanent institution in the service of society and its development, open to the public which acquires, conserves, researches, communicates and exhibits the tangible and intangible heritage of humanity and its environment for the purposes of education, studying and entertainment’, IMD serves as a platform to raise public awareness of the role museums play in the development of society today on an international level. All around the world, more and more museums participate in the International Museum Day. The Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta for example participated for the first time in 2017 with the theme Museums and Contested Histories: Saying the Unspeakable in Museums. Against the backdrop of the theme, the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library museum organised a symposium and an exhibition on a rarely discussed matter because of the psychological and emotional feelings it engenders; and that is the Nigerian Civil war.  The theme of the exhibition and symposium was the The Nigerian Civil war: Looking Backwards, Moving Forward. The theme highlighted the consequences of war in graphic details and concluded that it is better to ja-jaw than to war-war. Last year, more than 37,000 museums participated in the event in about 158 countries and territories. Why international museum day? The idea behind the International Museum Day is to create awareness of the importance of museums particularly among the developing countries where cultural matters is not in their scale of priorities as struggling as many of them are with socio – economic and political issues that “museums are an important means of cultural exchange, enrichment of cultures and development of mutual understanding, cooperation and peace among people”. It is a day to remind governments in these countries to pay more attention to their cultural institutions by way of empowerment to enable them carry out their statutory responsibilities. The status and standing of many countries today is to a large extent measured by the attention they pay to their cultural facilities. International tourism and the widespread economic gains it brings now represent a major reason for investment in our cultural facilities. International Museum Day 2019 focuses on the new roles of museums as active actors in their communities. The theme for this year’s celebration is Museums as Cultural Hubs: The future of tradition. The role of museums in society is changing. Museums are reinventing themselves in their quest for becoming more interactive, audience focused, community oriented, flexible, adaptable and mobile. They have become cultural hubs functioning as platforms where creativity combines with knowledge and where visitors can also co-create, shape and interact. While preserving their primary missions of collecting, conservation, research, communication and exhibition, museums have transformed their practices to remain closer to the communities they serve. Today, they look for innovative ways to tackle contemporary issues and conflicts. By acting locally, museums can also advocate and mitigate global problems serving to meet the challenges of today’s society proactively. As institutions at the heart of society, museums have the power to establish dialogue between cultures, to build bridges for a peaceful world and to define a sustainable future. As museums increasingly grow into their roles as cultural hubs, they are also finding new ways to honour their collections, their histories and legacies, creating traditions that will have new meaning for future generations as relevance for an increasingly diverse audience at a global level. This transformation, which will have profound impact on museum theory and practices, also forces us to rethink the value of museum as to question the ethical boundaries that define the very nature of our work as museum professionals. At once, a focal point for the community and an integral part of a global network, museums offer a platform for translating local communities’ needs and views into a global context. In the light of the above, can we in all sincerity say that the Nigerian museum service is conforming with the above laudable museum divergent roles? The answer, of course, is NO. The professional disposition of the Nigerian museum service has been a sore point since the exit of the first indigenous Director of the Federal Department of Antiquities and Director- General of the National Commission for Museums and Monuments, late Prof. Ekpo Eyo. The museum service enjoyed moments of glory under the leadership of Eyo who did a lot in the areas of infrastructure, personnel training, research and publication, security, documentation, preservation, conservation, communication, educational services, exhibition etc. Eyo midwifed several museums including the Unity Museum pilot project in Enugu and Ibadan, when after the civil war, the Federal government resolved to establish a museum of unity in every state capital of the federation as a matter of expediency aimed at serving as a cultural vehicle for the actualization of the much elusive national unity. A visit to any of the existing museums in the country during his tenure left complimentary remarks on the lips of museum visitors; Nigerians and foreigners alike. The popularity which the museum brought to the country outside the shores of this land through its celebrated travelling exhibition titled ‘Treasures of Ancient Nigeria: Legacy of Two Thousand Years’ as a mark of cultural diplomacy during Eyo’s tenure is still unparalleled. The exhibition was shown in eight American cities of Atlanta, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Washington D.C and Calgary for  two and a half years. In Europe, it was shown in Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom, West Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, German Democratic Republic and Soviet Union for nearly three years before returning to Lagos in 1986 where it was exhibited for the enjoyment and entertainment of the public. The expose silenced Caucasian critics who used the epithets of   ‘primitive’ and ‘tribal’ to describe African art. It helped to debunk certain misconceptions about African art and succeeded in putting Africa, nay, Nigeria, on the cultural map of the world. There is no gainsaying that Eyo’s tenure marks a watershed and a veritable Eldorado in the annals of the Nigerian museum service. Today the story is not only different but a sad one. The museum service is in a sordid state. It is now over three decades since the exit of Eyo (1986) and the museum service is now a shadow of its former self, to say the least. No thanks to the successive bunch of rapacious and looting gang of job hunters, opportunists and adventurers at the helm of affairs at a point in time, for this unmitigated disaster. The situation is not even better now as the museum service has become a rudderless ship parading blind persons on the driver’s seat since the exit of the unimpressive substantive Director General in 2017. Retired but not tired experienced and seasoned professionals abound who could be appointed as Director General to reverse the downward plunge of this once enviable cultural outfit. Even the primary missions of the museum which include collecting, conservation, research, communication and exhibition have been compromised by successive administration after Eyo. The employment of personnel such as ethnographers, archaeologists, conservators, education officers, technicians etc has been compromised. It is not only scandalous as the immediate past Director of Museums, Mr. Peter Odey regrettably pointed out in his paper delivered on the occasion of the International Museum Day celebration in Abuja that the National Commission for Museums and Monuments has no permanent accommodation with a befitting museum after many years of relocation to Abuja; whereas it was allocated a land in a choice area for that purpose in the Central Business District of Abuja. It is equally unwholesome, embarrassing and disgraceful to the image of Nigeria that after many years of existence the nation’s capital city has no museum. All major capital cities in the world have befitting museums that tells the stories of their countries and to show case the richness of their cultural property. The reason for this set back is twofold namely, putting round pegs in square holes and due to inept leadership lacking initiative coupled with its money guzzling appetite. Eyo did not have as much as the succeeding Directors General had before he made an impact on the museum scene; the vestiges of which have been allowed to fall into decadence. These, to my mind, as someone who has seen it all in the museum service during the days of Eyo are mind – boggling issues begging for answers which are not forthcoming.  There is no gainsaying that things have really gone awry in the Nigerian museum service under the National Commission for Museums and Monuments; a situation that calls for urgent professional intervention. Unfortunately, the supervisory ministry and the Board of Directors have not helped matters either as they have turned a blind eye to the happenings in the largest parastatal in the culture sector and refusing to do the needful for reasons best known to them despite the hue and cry of some lonely voices in the wilderness represented by union officials who are threatened with either transfer to the organisation’s ‘Siberia’ or with sack. This is the scenario playing out at the National Commission for Museums and Monuments as we speak. There is no doubt that the Nigerian museum service is ‘sick’ and heading for total collapse and except something is done fast, I see the collapse as imminent, sooner than later. A stitch in time saves nine.  