Indigenous singer and rapper Owoh Chimaobi Chrismathner, popularly known as Zoro, has distinguished himself by embracing Igbo to portray his act to national acclaim. In this interview with JOE AGBRO JR., the 29-year-old Zoro who is currently out with a single titled ‘Iheanacho’ talks about his music beginning, singing in Igbo and why he is yet to produce an album How did you get the name ‘Zoro’? It’s an acronym for my dad’s populous saying, ‘Zelu onwunwa rapu okwu n’uka.’ What was growing up like? I was born in the streets of Onitsha, at its roughest times. Somehow, God put me on the right path always; life made it almost impossible for me to get to this point, but God had better plans. How did you get into music? From secondary school, while I was in the boarding house at College of the Immaculate Conception, Enugu (CIC). It all started as jokes, fun with my housemates till we left CIC. They stopped and I continued. I wasn’t sure at first if I was to take it seriously or not until I started seeing signs, then I was convinced. What informed your sticking to singing and rapping in Igbo? At first, I had more English than Igbo in my songs, until I saw that the Igbo ones connected to more people and was easier for my friends. So I paid more attention to that. How would you describe your style of music? Erm, for sure I can do a lot of other stuff but the one I’m mostly known for I named it ‘Kulturepop.’ How would you describe the state of hip hop music in the east? It’s got its own vibe. A lot of cats are doing really well. I would say hip hop in the east is in safe hands. You have done a lot of collaborations. Who have you enjoyed working with and why? I would say Simi; she’s so natural and easy to get along with. Who would you like to work with in the future? Davido, Wizkid, Burnaboy, Kizz Daniel, Tekno, Runtown. You have done many singles. Why are you yet to drop an album? Albums are better when you drop them at your peak. So I’m working more on getting to the next level, then the album. What are you currently working on? I’m basically recording songs for now and will be dropping a couple of singles in a few months. What is a crazy thing that a fan has done to you? Dragged my wristwatch with me on stage. Aside from music, do you do any other thing to make ends meet? Just music for now. What do you do to relax? I play video games. What was your most embarrassing moment? The day my trousers tore while bowling. What is your most notable moment? Davido posting my song, “Iheanacho”. What is your advice for upcoming Nigerian artists? Spend more time improving on your weaknesses and less time dwelling on your strengths.