What are the benefits of the solid mineral sector to the economy? I firmly believe that strengthening ceramic and solid minerals entrepreneurship  is the golden highway to Nigeria’s economic democracy. Solid mineral processing industries offer ‘unparalleled perfect storm of business opportunities’ for industrialisation, economic development and growth of the country. For example, the solid minerals sector alone has the potential to rebuild the ailing economy, generate employment and wealth for millions of people, build human capital, and exploit new opportunities. The government seems to be more interested in the oil revenue rather than investing in more sustainable sectors. What is your take on this? One of the unfortunate things in this nation is that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) seems not to understand the concept of the solid mineral sector, especially the ceramics subsector and its benefits to the country. This is also the same challenge with the governors who rather than sourcing for experts who can help them exploit the resources, prefer to go to Abuja monthly for allocation. We were preparing to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Governors Forum before the change of government. We are waiting for them to settle down and hope that they will be more receptive to the development of the sector. Furthermore, we are hoping, too, that the National Assembly and her principal officers will settle down quickly to look at how to move the nation forward through this important sector. We have stretched our conviction and commitment with our partnership with the National Universities Commission (NUC), which is working on having a benchmark for universities to offer ceramics science, mineralogy and engineering technology. But, as we speak, no university has embraced it because of apprehension that they may not have lecturers. We have gone to Olabisi Onabanjo, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State and advised them on how to get round it by not necessarily engaging expatriate lecturers but rather engaging them for a year or so while encouraging exchange programmes. Why should the sector be given attention? In our presentations we have been able to itemise the benefits of the sector by explaining that it has the capacity to grow the standard of living and confidence of our people’s renaissance, attract the establishment of various industries, and increase our nation’s competitiveness, support rapid infrastructural development, drive growth and wealth in communities. We have illustrated to them how it would tremendously increase internally generated revenue as the cash cow for the country, grow our technology and foreign direct investment (FDI) profile, balance profit maximisation with sustained economic options, create a profitable, safe and sustainable growth. Furthermore, it will impact on households economy, integrate communities and artisanal miners where possible into the mining ecosystem. How will you convince an investor to invest into the sector? Investors can only be interested when we do the needful and in this case it is taking audit of what we have, characterise them and itemise what it can be possibly used for. We need to encourage investors to show interest in the processing of our solid minerals for industrial manufacturing of allied products; and the fulfillment of our national priorities that include job creation, skills development, supporting developments in the second economy and creation of  Micros Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME’s), providing sustainable livelihoods for poor rural communities, preserving and realising value from indigenous knowledge systems and promoting the local benefits of solid minerals. Why are the huge coal deposits in various states not developed? Nigeria has coal in commercial quantity, yet it virtually lives in darkness; and businesses die due to lack of power. It is estimated that the mineral resource found in large quantities in Enugu, Ondo, Kogi, Gombe and Nassarawa states is enough to provide electricity to the country and for export. Coal is highly underutilised in Nigeria despite that it can grow the non-oil economy, if policy makers can understand the huge impact it can create in the economy. The country is estimated to lose huge revenue, about $132 billion yearly, through the neglect of the abundant solid mineral deposit. Coal is a major contributor to the United States’economy and it can do the same for Nigeria, if properly harnessed. Coal has played a crucial role in industrialisation since time immemorial and it has a significant impact on domestic economies in the world. It has been the key factor in shaping economies across the globe and determining the pace of development for several nations. The monumental amount of coal consumed by the world is used in a wide range of applications, such as generating electricity, the production of steel, iron, power, and several manufacturing and transportation industries, but this huge resource is wasting in Nigeria. What are the other resources seemingly neglected by the government that has retarded the growth of the economy? The government has totally neglected the solid mineral sector. For instance, the global market for clay, which is also in abundance in Nigeria but largely untapped in 2018, is is worth about $216.9 million. Other mineral resources are Feldspar found everywhere in Nigeria and is worth $3.2 billion; while Kaolin deposits across the nation  can fetch $5.2 billion, Silica Mica accounts for  $678.2 million, Phosphate is $83.11 billion and Silicate $600 million. All these are not tapped, but left to waste without exploitation mineral deposits are high employment and wealth generating agent, with a large capacity to halt rural urban drift and boost the economy. Let me give you an example. In one state that achieves N11.45 billion as Internally Generated Revenue  (IGR) and incidentally the same state is hosting 29 of 44 identified solid minerals in Nigeria. This state has a solid mineral resource known Feldspar and if it can develop the remaining mineral resource, from our estimation, it will earn over N485 billion. Feldspar is used for drug manufacturing, ceramics, paper, paint etc. Recently, we visited Katsina State, one of the states rich in solid mineral resources. We observed people digging out kaolin and packing it in bags that they sell at N900 per bag to paint manufacturers. Meanwhile, clay is an essential ingredient for manufacturing porclean, and is also widely used for making paper, rubber, paint and other products. However, if this product is processed by the government or registered as a Small Medium Enterprise (SME), it can fetch the miners over N3,000 per bag. Unfortunately, the companies buying the bags of kaolin from the local people through their agents are making good money, but the people are losing. Besides, l don’t believe these people can be justly called illegal miners in their own state; nature abhors a vacuum because the government has refused to do what it is supposed to do these poor miners are helping themselves rather than starving with their families. What the government should do is to organise them into a cluster and support them with simple technology that will aid them mine safely and pay taxes to the government. I went further to ask them why they were reluctant to develop the abundant solid minieral and negotiate with Abuja on how to share the profit instead of going cap in hand every month in Abuja for monthly allocation. However, from my investigations, l identified two major problems why they have not been able to do so. I discovered that it is impossible to negotiate from the point of ignorance, meaning they are not aware of the extent of the deposit, including charecterisation. How can skills be developed to exploit the mineral deposits? The government must know the volume of the mineral deposits and how long they will last, its characterisation, including physical and mechanical properties. It is only when the facts of the mineral deposits are known that a business profile could be prepared, listing what each mineral can be used for, so it is only then that investors could be wooed to come because we have made their decision easier by letting them know what we have and how best they can apply to get the right product. It is imperative that we know the physical and mechanical properties, once we have that, we prepare business profile proposal to woo investors itemising what each mineral resource can be used for. This is the only we can transform solid minerals into products. Besides, this can only transform into reality when we build technology that will enable us transform the solid minerals into various products, such as drugs and paper. Furthermore, in our quest to build skills, we have elected to train 500 youths per state on ceramics making pro bono, don’t forget that this sector can generate billions of naira yearly. Barriers to successful market mining in the solid mineral sector exist because of lack of quantification and characterisation data. The practice of roadshows where experts are not included in the teams to answer technical questions that may be asked by would-be investors is an exercise in futility. We discovered that our country does not have the skillset; secondly, the law that says that Federal Government owns all resources in each state is scaring the state government from developing their solid minerals and other natural resources. But l give some of them this illustration; if, for instance, I have  my house that is supposed to be cleared by the community and, it is not, nothing stops me from clearing the pathway that leads to my house. A proactive governor can put into action the process of developing the abundant resources in my state, what prevents me from doing it and working out  an agreeable arrangement with the Federal Government to have a sharing formula since that seems to be in the interest of both parties. Nothing can beat the development of solid minerals. Women are more involved in ceramics than their male counterpart, especially in packaging, decoration, glazing, quality control, laboratory and inspection and we ready to train them to be economically dependent. Can you set agenda for the incoming solid mineral minister? The first thing l would advise him is to ascertain how many Nigerians are experts in the solid mineral sector, invite them for a business discussion and form a small team that will come out with a road map for solid mineral development. In the proposed road map for the country l will ask the minister to work on the characterisation of the different mineral deposits in the country, their extent of deposits and business profile. It is with this knowledge that a serious minister can get to work. A minister needs that kind of document to attend investors’ fora or roadshows to woo investors. Prior to the roadshows, which have become prevalent, the minister should know that in Ebonyi, Imo, Delta, Kogi, Yobe, Sokoto and other states, solid minerals can pull them out of poverty and regular visits to Abuja to collect hand-outs are not worth it. For instance, state governments  have no business  not paying salaries or building infrastructure, but all these happen because of lack of knowledge of what to do with what God has deposited in their various states to prosper. As l said, initially the Central Bank of Nigeria has the least knowledge of how to encourage investment in the solid mineral sector and the least of the ceramics sector that have the capacity to drive the non oil sector. Why has the country remained undeveloped when no state is without at least a mineral resource? Nigeria has remained largely undeveloped and poor as a result of the neglect of the non-oil sector, in the first instance, the solid mineral sector, especially the ceramic sector that is all inclusive. As long as policy makers are not aware of the need to characterise our raw materials, that will let them know the mineralogical and chemical composition of resources because it is the only scientific way that will enable investors know what is available and what it can be used for. We have seen where some manufacturers use some minerals in ignorance because they actually do not know the composition of the minerals. Some of these people do not know either the characterisation or composition of them and end up producing poor quality products that may endanger lives. Quality is based on the composition of the materials; if you miss that important segment of information the final product will be poor. We are, therefore, pleading with state government to remove the fears they are entertaining. We have the skill set and every other thing needed for it to succeed. What we are asking from them is to reach an agreement with us since we are bringing the technical know-how. We propose to them to allow us take 50 per cent while they take the balance because we are providing the skill as our own contribution. We canvass that our skill set is quantified as our contribution, the government bring in money to run the project while we set up the business, run it and train skills to over from us. Our team will not be paid as consultants because if we take the option of serving as consultants the capital outlay will be huge.  We don’t only want to characterise and determine the extent of the deposit in Nigeria but want to go further to show you how to translate solid minerals into products that will grow the economy of this country we have the expertise. What is state of the ceramics industry? We have many of them, but unfortunately, only four are  producing. Sagamu, Benin and two in Ajaokuta, owned by an Indian and Chinese, but just learnt that there is one in Agbara, but I think it’s linked to one of those in Ajaokuta. Why is it difficult to sustain the ceramic industry in Nigeria, especially the Modern Ceramics in Abia State that has changed hands? We simply don’t have the skill-set besides insincerity of the operators. For instance, the one in Abia State, known as Modern Ceramics, is long dead, despite the funds pumped into it? The story is long. At a point, the liquidator called me to access how best to bring it back to life and l told him that there is nothing that can be done and nothing can be sold too. The whole place, when l visited, was overtaken by weeds. The Catholic Church, at a point, got a grant of N500 million to revitalise the erstwhile thriving factory. They travelled to Italy, thinking they could get it started, but they failed. They failed in the exercise, partly because if you design a machine in Europe to be used in Nigeria without any idea of the characterisation of the minerals in Nigeria, it will not work. The Katsina case is a bit different as it started with two processing plants in Dusinmi and Kakara Local Government Area and they never worked. The one in Kakarar didn’t operate for a day and was subsequently vandalised. The one in Dusinmi after producing for a short time was vandalised also. These are clear cases of what is called a white elephant project. Why is it so? In the Katsina case, the ‘investor’ just came in, put the two machines together and vanished. The one in Dusinmi ran for a certain time producing kaolin powder and within a short period stopped. They called us in, but we advised that the money to refurbish the two factories will be enough to start three new ones. In these scenarios, our advice has always been that the government or individuals should not enter into any a business they do not have the competence. What is the worth of the ceramics industry and can we be an exporter nation? According to reports from World Imports, we have N902 million yearly imports of ceramics. We have not started, it will take us years because we cannot export the bad quality w e are producing. As I stated initially, because most people don’t understand the characterisation of the minerals, the tendency to mix it wrongly and manufacture the wrong products is high. In 2009, we imported ceramics worth $319 million; 2012, we imported $416 million worth of ceramics while in 2014, we imported ceramics worth $600 million. When you do not have much about anything, you will not want to spend money on it. Unfortunately, the thing that can bail this country is solid minerals when we build the capacity for the development, but the government prefers to go to China and import or look for consultants. What about the roadshows the country has been involved in the name of wooing investors, are you suggesting that our country is not gaining? For those who attend, they must be gaining something, but have you asked how many experts are part of the them? How many experts in solid minerals follow them to China and Thailand? Those who go for the shows should answer these questions. We should think of how best to develop this nation. We have the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) and other agencies, but they are doing next to nothing. RMRDC’s mandate, for instance, is to show you where the raw materials are, but they do not do research to educate the public on how to manufacture from their research. Imagine if all the interlinked agencies in Nigeria are working together, the country will move forward unlike where the fiefdoms are carved out, each with a director-general almost doing the same thing. This is wasteful and not helping the nation in its quest for development. How do we grow the non-oil economy through the solid mineral sector? We can grow it if the government is committed to it. We have coal in Enugu, Kogi, Nassarawa, Ondo and other states. The market contribution to the economy of America is $21 billion and indirectly $132 billion. Evidently, we are losing so much. The global market for clay in 2018 was $216.9 million; all these are in our soil; one can only imagine if we convert these to Naira. Feldspar, another mineral that is like alliums in the global market in 2017, rose to $3.2 billion. Incidentally, it’s everywhere in Nigeria; kaolin is $5.2 billion and available in all local government areas. Silica mica is $678.2 million; phosphate is $83.11 billion, silicate is worth over $600 million, convert these millions to naira and note how much trillions we will we be talking about, yet we are poor. All these are high-employment generating activities, wealth creators and can stop rural-urban drift. If SMEs are encouraged to run micro businesses and industries in localities where people will be decently engaged and live a good life the allure of the city will be limited. How can you encourage the universities to take up the course? The NUC is encouraging the universities to offer mineral engineering, mineral economics and ceramics engineering. We are suggesting that universities should be encouraged to have foreign lecturers to come maybe for a year and leave. This will afford the students the opportunity to learn global best practice. These guest lecturers will not be in full-time employment; universities where these courses are offered should encourage exchange programmes where students can go for their industrial attachment (IT) for between three and six months. That way, the students will acquire skills that they will need to help the country. Indeed, we need to review our universities curricular every three years to get the latest from the international community. I make bold to suggest that the practical aspect of the course should not be less than 40 per cent. The best way we believe it can work is to say, for instance, in the six geo-political zones, let three universities offer ceramic engineering; the other three mineralogy. In that case, before the students graduate they will be able to set up industries for themselves. The government should have built clusters for them and created or encouraged SMEs in those areas to make them official and organised. They are doing what the government failed to do. We are asking each government to provide 500 youths for us to train in a week. From there, you eliminate restiveness, kidnapping and other opportunistic crimes that are prevalent in the country.