Singer Timi Dakolo has thanked Nigerians for supporting him and his family for their support since his wife, Busola Dakolo granted an interview, alleging that she was raped Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo, when she was a teenager. He took to Instagram account on Sunday to share his appreciation. In his note, he also appealed for Nigerians to report rape incidents, especially when it happens in a church. “Busola and I have been overwhelmed by the outpouring of love, support and most importantly – action, following her story told on Friday. “We thank you, Nigeria. We thank you most deeply for helping make this moment count. “We also thank the team of people who have been helping us since Busola decided to tell her story months ago. “Because of them, Busola’s story has sparked a movement called #NotInMyChurch – to help other survivors of sexua abuse in the church find help, justice an healing. I am grateful to Enough is Enough Nigeria @eienigeria for helping to drive this movement. “Please upload stories about abuse or rape, especially in the church on notinmychurch.ng and to partner with or support the work they are doing to help survivors speak out, find help or get justice, please email info@notinmychurch.ng. “We can truly make this moment matter beyond just Busola’s story. She is speaking on behalf of those who haven’t yet been able to speak, and thousands who have now begin to find their voices.” Since the story broke, many celebrities and other citizens have aligned with Timi’s wife, using the hashtag, ‘IStand WithBusola on social media to express their support. Many Nigerians have also saluted Timi for standing behind his wife in the face of the matter. Nollywood actress Mercy Aigbe said “Welldone Bro! Na Man you be, God bless you.” On Air Personality and author, Toke Makinwa, and actress Lala Akindoju also wrote, “God bless you.” Before his wife came out openly to accuse pastor Fatoyinbo, Timi Dakolo had been spearheading a campaign against rape. Meanwhile, on Sunday, protesters stormed COZA church in Abuja.