Ogaga Ifowodo is a lawyer, poet, columnist and rights activist. He obtained his LL.B from the University of Benin and was called to the Bar in 1991. After a decade of working in Nigeria’s premier human rights non-governmental human rights group, the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), he proceeded to the United States in 2001 to indulge his passion for writing and literature. He obtained a Master of Fine Art (MFA), an MA and a Ph.D. from the Ivy-league Cornell University, New York. He taught at Texas State University until 2014 when he returned home. He has published three prize-winning books of poetry: Homeland and Other Poems (winner of the 1993 ANA poetry prize); Madiba (winner of the 2003 ANA/Cadbury poetry prize); and The Oil Lamp (winner of the 2005 ANA/Gabriel Okara poetry prize). A Good Mourning, his fourth collection, was published in 2016; His poems have been widely published in several anthologies and literary journals across the world, including Voices from all Over: Poems with Notes and Activities, The Times Literary Supplement, Poetry International, The Massachusetts Review, Crazyhorse, The Dalhousie Review, Atlanta Review, Mantis, Drumvoices Revue, Poems for a Century: An Anthology for Nigeria, and Migrations (an Afro-Italian anthology selected by Wole Soyinka for the Lagos Black Heritage Festival). Ifowodo was named recipient of the PEN USA Barbara Goldsmith Freedom-to-Write Award and of the Poets of All Nations (Netherlands) “Free Word” Award. He is an honorary member of the PEN centres of the USA, Canada and Germany and a fellow of the Iowa Writing Programme. In 2014, Ifowodo returned from his fourteen-year-stay in the United States and declared his intention to enter public service. He sought the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for a seat in the House of Representatives but in the primary election and was the representative of Delta State on the governing board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In this interview with Deputy Editor, Olayinka Oyegbile, he talks about books, writing and activism. What sorts of books do you like most? Serious literature, primarily, in which I include creative non-fiction. I also like insightful, general interest books and trans-disciplinary works that synthetize knowledge in the humanities, social and natural sciences. I have in mind here books like Jared Diamond’s Guns, Germs, and Steel: A Short History of Everybody for the Last 13,000 Years (also with the alternate subtitle The Fate of Human Societies); Orlando Patterson’s Slavery and Social Death: A Comparative Study; Robert Jay Lifton’s The Broken Connection: On Death and the Continuity of Life; Benedict Anderson’s Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism; Terry Eagleton’s Why Marx was Right; Hannah Arendt’s The Origins of Totalitarianism; Yuval Noah Harari’s Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (which I have only just bought), just to name a few. When you read a book, what are the salient things you look out for most? Good writing; style and erudition. The parameters differ slightly, of course, with the genre of writing. In other words, depending on whether it is poetry, fiction, drama or life writing, to which I would apply aesthetic criteria peculiar to literature, or it is a scholarly work addressed to the general reader. In all cases, however, I like to see a distinctive style that serves the narrative goal or the thesis, the argument, of the book. No matter how complex the experience or idea is, I like to see it expressed in clear, lucid prose that shows mastery of the linguistic medium. Who are your favourite authors (poets) in the world and why? I don’t know if by “today” you mean living poets. At any rate, good writers never die; they are immortal. If in doubt, I would refer you to the authors of the books of the Bible, Homer, Shakespeare, Charles Dickens, Tolstoy, etc! That said, I have to say that it is hard naming favourite authors without running the risk of a list longer than your arm, unless of course one has read very little. But I will mention a few: Christopher Okigbo, whose brief career was simply incandescent, for so magically fusing the private and the public into a voice adroitly suited to poetry as witness, even prophecy. Wole Soyinka and John Pepper Clark-Bekederemo, with sharply contrasting styles and temperaments but who wrote some of the most memorable poems in the African canon; as masters, they show the would-be or young poet just what it means to discover her voice, what would distinguish her as a writer (a truth that I think used to be brought home rather pedantically with the ubiquitous invitation to compare-and-contrast Soyinka’s and Clark’s “Abiku”!). Tchicaya U Tam’si, for the haunting surrealism that undergirds his expression of Africa’s tragi-comedic colonial and post-colonial history, his oblique angle of vision that enabled him to laugh and cry at the same time, and his defiant secularism. Derek Walcott, for his dogged devotion to style, for swearing himself to the tedium of writing in accurate iambics (though he never quite followed the injunction, the whole thing being more accurately a pose as he would later say that he counts his syllables on his fingers), his unabashed emulation of European masters as necessary tutelage, even seeing himself (in his own words) as “legitimately prolonging the mighty line of Marlowe,” but who remained so inextricably bound to the Caribbean that he ended up as the poet with the most finely-tuned ear to the slave’s plaintive patois of pain; certainly the one who wrote the book hailed as “the epic of the dispossessed,” Omeros. I think with Walcott, I can say without hesitation that he is my favourite poet. W. H. Auden, who parlayed his outsider status as a gay man into a sort of epistemic privilege, a vantage point of reflection on difference and unequal power relations (I’m thinking of poems like “The More Loving One,” “Refugee Blues,” “Musée des Beaux Arts,” “The Unknown Citizen,” among others), and for being a master of style. And Seamus Heaney, whom I had the pleasure of meeting at the Poetry Rotterdam International Festival in 1996, just before I would really discover and be awed by the brilliance of his poetry. The sly but stern and stinging manner of his ruminations on the fraught Irish-English problem (the poem “Whatever You Say, Say Nothing,” for instance,) and the dignity that underlines his evocation of pastoral Ireland, giving us the famous poem “Death of a Naturalist.” For me, to truly admire a poet or writer, I have to simultaneously be awed by, and envious of, him or her. These poets, though not the only ones to make me feel that way, are certainly at the very top of my list. When and how do you like to read? Anytime I can. As a post-graduate student and then lecturer in the United States, that was almost any time outside the classroom, or I should say during any free time, day or night. Outside academia, I find myself yearning for more time to be alone with a book. As for the second part of the question, the “how” part, I don’t know if you mean whether I do so sitting at a desk, back straight up, or lying in bed, or aloud or quietly. One thing though: I find that a pencil has become almost an indispensable reading prop for me as I’ve developed a penchant, probably an annoying one to any secondary reader, for marking up the books I read. What is your preferred literary genre? I’m primarily a poet, so poetry. But I’ve come to admire a great deal the art and power of the essay form. I’ve also begun trying my hands at fiction and non-fiction. I should say, though, that I get as much delight from reading great prose as poetry. Put another way, the exhilarating feeling I got from Toni Morrison’s Beloved, or Arundhati Roy’s The God of Small Things, or Soyinka’s Death and the King’s Horseman, or Tim O’Brien’s “The Things They Carried” — just to cite a few examples — is indistinguishable from the way I felt reading, say, Soyinka’s “Telephone Conversation,” Okigbo’s “Come Thunder,”  Clark-Bekederemo’s “Olokun,” Gabriel Okara’s “One Night at Victoria Beach,” W. B. Yeats’s “Ego Dominus Tuus,” Walcott’s “The Schooner Flight,” Sylvia Plath’s “Daddy,” or Carolyn Forché’s “The Colonel.” What book or books have had the greatest impact on you and why? Too many to list! Certainly, all the books I mentioned in the answer to the first question. And, naturally, the Bible, which was mandatory reading, in English and Isoko, before evening prayers in our house (for being, I believe, arguably the most irrefutable evidence of writing as creation, as magic, the bringing into existence of that which did not previously exist); Karl Marx and Frederick Engels’ The Communist Manifesto (for my induction into the dialectical mode of reasoning and critical vigilance by way of the famous call for “a ruthless criticism of everything existing”); Achebe’s Things Fall Apart (for what everybody knows and also being the first novel from which I would, as a 14-year-old, memorise whole passages); Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness (for being one of the most devastating unmasking of colonialism’s pretence to a civilizing mission and of Europe as the actual heart of darkness); Frantz Fanon’s The Wretched of the Earth and Black Skin, White Masks (for an extraordinarily poignant interpretation of the violence, brutal realities, complexity and complexes of colonialism as a form of imperialism); Walter Rodney’s How Europe Underdeveloped Africa (the title says it all); Toni Morrison’s Beloved (for its feat of posing a moral-philosophical question on both sides of slavery, the slave’s and the slave-master’s, while remaining focused on the unspeakable horror of slavery as well as the slave’s irrepressible quest for freedom); Leslie Marmon Silko’s Almanac of the Dead (which fuses the history of Native-American and African-American experience of genocide and slavery and sublimates it into a narrative of healing through the re-territorialisation of the United States, her vision already beginning to be realised and partly awakening the overt racist white supremacy policies and attitudes of the Donald Trump government); Walcott’s Omeros (which is literally an enactment of healing as self-discovery, as reconciliation with and acceptance of one’s home and identity, however gruesome and unflattering its history, and for doing so with rigorous attention to form); Edward Said’s Orientalism (a seminal study of the ideological framework of the West’s misrepresentation of non-white peoples and cultures through its attitudes to the Orient or the East; written more from the literary/philological perspective, it is arguably the founding work of postcolonial studies); C.L.R. James’s The Black Jacobins (which shows so powerfully how Toussaint Louverture’s slave revolution of 1791-1804 led to the emergence of Haiti as the first black republic and, quite as important, fulfilled the heady promise of liberté, egalité, fraternité of the French Revolution of 1789 that inspired it by moving the former from the narrow Jacobinism of the overthrow of an imperial monarchy to a universal humanism); Nelson Mandela’s The Long Walk to Freedom (for bequeathing to us the unforgettable life and mind of one of the world’s greatest moral and political figures as well as a personal history of the anti-apartheid struggle); Sigmund Freud’s The Ego and the Id, Civilization and Its Discontents and Moses and Monotheism for a depth psychology of the mind, psychoanalytical interpretation of the conflicts, mostly produced by cultural and religious injunctions, between the individual and society and the trauma and repression that ensue from that (though not a book I should also like to mention his essay “Against the Pleasure Principle”); Cathy Caruth’s Unclaimed Experience: Trauma, Narrative, and History, which was a massive help to me at the dissertation stage of my doctoral studies when using psychoanalysis as an analytic concept for the understanding of (post)colonialism as a trauma needing to be acknowledged and worked through by formerly colonized societies, as Frantz Fanon had famously prescribed in Black Skin, White Masks); Jared Diamond’s Guns, Germs, and Steel, earlier mentioned (which delineates the proximate and ultimate causes of the unequal development of peoples and regions of the world and conclusively locates the ultimate cause in geography, not racial difference); My Promised Land: The Triumph and Tragedy of Israel by Ari Shavit whose great-great-grandfather was a founding Zionist (which is a devastating critique of Israel’s genocide and colonialism in Palestine); Richard Dawkins’s The God Delusion (which humorously but scientifically wages war against the obfuscations of Biblical literalists and their ingrained resistance to biology, to science, and knowledge); Terry Eagleton’s Literary Theory: An Introduction and Satya Mohanty’s Literary Theory and the Claims of History (which very helpfully unpacked the obscurantism of postmodernism as a radical theory aimed at deconstructing the totalitarian structure of power and did so brilliantly at first but unwittingly ended up becoming what it criticised), etc., but I guess I have to stop! As a child what books tickled you most? None in particular—I didn’t start reading for pleasure until secondary school. And then, it was the usual suspects for boys of my generation: crime detection thrillers — I read over 70 James Hadley Chase novels, for instance! But happily, that was at the same time that I was encountering serious literature in early secondary school through Things Fall Apart and the Heinemann African Writers Series; the books in our alternate syllabus at Federal Government College, Warri (and I assume all the unity schools) that extended my horizon and budding imagination to the English-speaking world at large in such poems as Coleridge’s “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner,” George Crabbe’s “Peter Grimes,” Robert Browning’s “My Last Duchess,” Mary and Charles Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare before the unabridged versions of  The Tempest, Julius Caesar, Macbeth (we even saw a film adaptation in school) and The Merchant of Venice, among other initiations into the literature that endures. At what point in your life did you begin to nurse the idea of becoming a writer? In secondary school, as a16-year-old, at the instance of a sixth former, Uyi Worghiren, now a lawyer, who turned to me one evening at our table in the dining hall and said, quite unexpectedly, “You have a bent towards the arts, not so?” And on answering yes, asked, “Why don’t you write a poem for our house (Independence House) as our entry for the poetry event of FESTAC?” You see, back then, we had our own Festac at FGC, Warri, an annual festival of art and culture during which the four houses competed in drama, dance, poetry and debate. Before then I hadn’t once strung together two words towards a poem nor even entertained the notion of being a poet, but I took the challenge and wrote a poem entitled “Ill Wind” in which I imagined the literal havoc of the adage “It’s an ill wind that blows no one any good.” It was the joint first prize winner for our house and I was required to recite it before the entire school gathered in the assembly hall during one of the Festac events. It is also my first published poem as it was printed in our school magazine, Delta Link. And after that, I began my notebook or juvenilia phase and the first spuds of the idea of becoming a writer sprouted in my mind. In 2017, your poetry collection A Good Mourning was shortlisted for the NLNG Prize. How did you feel about that? I was delighted. Naturally, I’d hoped to win the prize but was quite satisfied to have made it to the top three out of the unprecedentedly large number of entries. And I felt so because of the themes I explore in that volume — the June 12 tragedy, and the larger tragedy of Africa’s unending quest for self-defeatism rather than self-determination by way of reflections on some of the catastrophes more brutally seared in our collective memory: Liberia, Algeria, Sierra Leone, Rwanda, Darfur, the Congo, Zimbabwe—while also attempting something different in my aesthetic approach. How has writing shaped or reordered your life? By making of me a more introspective and reflective person; writing is nothing if not at the same time an invitation to think more deeply about the complexity of even the most seemingly ordinary and transparent events or experiences. Put another way, writing compels serious attention to the world around you and beyond. You write poetry mainly. Are you not moved by other genres? I am, as I have already indicated earlier. I love great prose, which is also poetry, defined as the most heightened or elevated use of language. I don’t mean grandiloquence or self-indulgence tending towards pompous speech or reified diction but language alive to the burden of aptly and memorably re-presenting an idea or experience. As you know, I have written quite a lot for the op-ed pages — enough for two or three volumes if I were to publish my essays. I have two works in progress in fiction and non-fiction (my prison notes). If you meet your favourite author face to face, what would you like to ask him/her? About his or her thought process, the creative consciousness, that led to the magic of the work that awes me, but you know, it is hardly something that any writer can talk intelligibly about, having been likened more to a state of “grace,” a happening, an unfolding — you see what I mean! — than any particular circumstance that can be recorded in the mind and reproduced in its exactitude. The sort of thing that made the Russian poet Anna Akhmatova wonder if a god dictated The Divine Comedy (consisting of “Inferno,” “Purgatory/Purgatorio” and “Paradise/Paradiso”) to Dante! Still, I should like to hear any of my favourite authors talk about the seminal or gestational aspects of their best work just so as to reveal however incompletely some of the realism that underlies the magic. Let’s say that I would like to know something of his or her literary sleight-of-hand! Are you a re-reader and how often? I did most of my re-reading when writing my dissertation and revising it for publication, and while teaching. I do very much wish to re-read some books, especially those I read when I was not quite ready to fully appreciate them — for example, Tolstoy’s War and Peace, Emile Zola’s Germinal, Steinbeck’s Grapes of Wrath, Frederick Engels’s The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State — but more often than not I end up reaching instead for one of the many on the shelves begging to be cracked open! Whenever I’ve re-read a book worth re-reading, however, I have often wondered what is better: reading a new book which may not be worth the time despite all the hype around it, or re-reading a classic which is bound to yield new rewards. Disappointing, overrated, just not good: what book did you feel as if you were supposed to like, and didn’t? There have been quite a number but I most definitely felt so about Ayi Kwei Armah’s Two Thousand Seasons (the leaden prose apart, I couldn’t get over the essentialism and Manichaeism of “our way” and “their way”) and Nkem Nwankwo’s My Mercedes is Bigger than Yours (one of the many Heinemann published merely to capitalize on the phenomenal success of Achebe and Ngugi wa Thiong’o). Mostly, though, once a book fails to grab hold of me, I drop it — too many good books waiting to be read. Read the remaining interview on thenationonlineng.net