The leadership of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has given the South African government a seven day ultimatum to find the killers of the Deputy Director-General, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Dr. Elizabeth Ndubuisi, and other Nigeroans killed this years or risk the destruction of its businesses in Nigeria. The council’s threat is coming barely twenty four hours of similar threat issued by the National Association of Nigerian Students on Thursday. The Council in a statement by its President, Almustapha Abdullahi, called on the South African government to investigate and bring those involved in her death to justice within the given time. He said failure to do so would lead to the complete ejection of South Africans and its related investment such as Dstv, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Gotv, MTN, Shopprite and others in Nigeria. Abdullahi said: “Having received the report on 127 Nigerian souls lost to the wicked madness of South Africans irresponsible tendency of their government in the recent xenophobia attacks on black citizens in their country, the latest killing at Emperor’s Palace Hotel & Convention Centre, Johannesburg, South Africa Of Mrs Elizabeth Ndubuisi, the Deputy-Director General, Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria is unprecedented. “The leadership of NYCN thereby call on the Government of South Africa who have being doing less or nothing to stop this deadly attack on fellow Africans by Africans to either act now by fishing out the killer of Mrs Ndubuisi and other Nigerians gruesomely murdered in South Africa or consider the complete ejection of South Africans and her related investment such as Dstv, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Gotv, MTN, Shopprite and others in Nigeria as we hit our departure point. He said Nigerians have continued to tolerate south Africans and their companies’ extortive tendency in Nigeria, saying “DSTV is milking Nigerians dry with mandatory monthly subscription plan even when no one enjoys full monthly service while MTN is defrauding Nigerians with dubious data and Voices Tariff Plans. “Stanbic IBTC is swimming in our Pension Contribution Fund and yet Nigerians never one once react by killing the companies and the citizens who are provoking, frustrating Nigerians,” he said. He added: “Our disposition to united Africa and pan Africanism has long being taken for granted and passive as act of cowardice hence we must prove our self from this point forward. “The government of South Africa have 72 hours to fish out the killer of Dr. Mrs Elizabeth to start with and other within 7days or recall her envoy and other business investments in Nigeria as we are going to eject them from our land from expiration of our one week ultimatum. “This is not the spirit of Nelson Mandela who had Nigeria full support to fight Apatitied Struggle for South Africa liberation, since they have lost the memory of our united front for solidarity and independent south Africa we must part our way with our killer.”