Neglect sign: Some parents fail to meet up with a child’s basic needs. These needs are education, health care, supervision, clothing, nutrition, housing, as well as physical, emotional, social and safety needs According to the 2014 Nigeria Violence Against Children (VAC) survey by the National Population Commission, UNICEF and the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, six out of 10 Nigerian children experienced at least one form of violence before they reach 18. Neglect of a child is any serious act – or failure to act – by someone who has care of the child that fails to provide the conditions for their healthy physical and emotional development. Signs that a young child or baby may be experiencing neglect include: For older children, signs include the following: A child who is being neglected may have poor hygiene, matted hair or untreated medical conditions. They may also be at home alone. The earlier an abused child gets help , the greater chance they have to heal, While physical abuse might be the most visible, other types of abuse, such as emotional abuse and neglect, also leave deep, lasting scars on children. What should or can I do if I notice signs of abuse to a child? If we can be observant in our environment, which in turn will lead us to asking some very important questions: What are the warning signs observed? Be alert, if you think you are seeing signs such as the ones listed and explained above. Watch what the child does, as well as what they say and how they act, do not take any detail for granted or assume. Take written notes if you have any concerns,so that you can refer back to them at any other point in time coherently. Will the situation of child abuse just go away? No! It will not, if not addressed quickly. In fact, it will only get worse as the offender will get more confidence to inflict more harm to the helpless child. Should I speak with the child about it? Depending on the situation and circumstance, you may decide to have a calm conversation with the child, letting them know what you have observed, and about their unusual behaviour (for example, they may seem sad or unwell). The child may tell you something about what they are experiencing. Listen attentively without interrupting till they are done, but don’t judge them and don’t pressure the child or say words you want them to say, more like don’t put words into their mouth. It’s important that the words are theirs. Let them know that you are there to listen to them at any time and they will freely come to you. It’s basically about getting their trust If the child tells you about any abuse, remain calm and listen rather than trying to investigate. Any brash decision may harm the child. It is not your job to try and find out more or to counsel the child. Thank the child for telling you; let them know you believe them and want to help. Tell the child they are not in trouble and that they have done the right thing. Don’t promise to keep it a secret because you will need to report it. Should I report it, if I don’t have absolute proof? Child abuse is an unacceptable act, regardless of any circumstance, cultural environment or ideology one may have on child upbringing. When there is a suspicion of abuse, it may be difficult to act, since you may feel you are disrupting a family or ruining another adult’s life. Most people don’t want to interfere. You may feel that you can’t speak out, if you don’t have clear proof about what is happening.  Silence even when there is a suspicion will not help the child, However, it’s best to report it even if you’re not totally sure abuse is taking place. Abuse is never the child’s fault. Acting on a suspicion could prevent any further abuse from happening and possibly save the child’s life. If you feel there are reasonable grounds that the abuse is taking place, ask yourself what someone else would think if they knew what you know. If the answer is that they would believe abuse is taking place, then you should report it. Ask yourself if it is your child, how would you feel? Please, don’t talk about it with the person you know or think may be abusing the child. You will only succeed in putting the child in more danger. This should be done by the police and/or a child protection department. Who do I report it to? Anyone who thinks that a child is being abused can report it to a child protection authority or the police. Each state or territory is responsible for child protection in its jurisdiction.