Sir: I will start my admonition using the popular theoretical framework of the trolley problem – a thought experiment in ethics. The general form of the problem is this: You see a runaway trolley moving toward five tied-up (or otherwise incapacitated) people lying on the tracks. You are standing next to a lever that controls a switch. If you pull the lever, the trolley will be redirected onto a sidetrack, and the five people on the main track will be saved. However, there is a single person lying on the sidetrack. You have two options: Do nothing and allow the trolley to kill the five people on the main track, or, pull the lever, diverting the trolley onto the sidetrack where it will kill one person. This theory has several variations but the core of it, remains which is the more ethical option? Again, we are faced with a problem that is societal cum religious and we are using the sledgehammer. Are Shiites different from IPOB, or same with OPC? we are treading that path of lose/lose, because we have not dealt with the real concerns. What does Shiite mean in Islam? what is the difference between Sunnis and Shiites? What do Shiites believe in? Where are the Sunnis and Shiites fighting? In Nigeria, what are the issues? We are largely ignorant of the issues we are faced with. We are playing politics with leadership. Whether closet Shiites or the protesting ones, they are everywhere. Many Nigerians don’t actually know of any sect or doctrinal division in the practice of Islam. Many do not know the ideological drive of these people, but we are embarking on a familiar terrain of tackling a problem without addressing it. Like the trolley questions, the Shiites is one that raises ethical questions. Many do not know why El-Zakaky is being held, and others know but don’t care. Do they deserve the rights to protest? Why is government incapable of speedily prosecuting El-Zakzaky? What role does Iran play here and what is the Nigerian state’s position? If the leader of the Shiite’s dies in detention, what does it portend? Is the rushed proscription an answer? Why does all these on an indifferent glance look like a reenactment of Boko Haram? Are the Shiites armed, deadly; are the government and its security agencies violating human rights. A sizable population are ignorant or indifferent. Are we looking at the ideal? Is this crisis being looked at with any introspection? What do we know: a youth corps member has paid the ultimate price; who will investigate the death of the senior cop that was shot? When two wrongs don’t equate a right, it remains a head you lose, a tail you still lose.  pcdbooks@gmail.com