The Caretaker Committee Chairman of Nganzai LGC Alhaji Mohammed Bulama has explained how some insurgents lunched attack on villagers who went to bury one of their own at Badu Village of the local Government, Borno State. Bulama disclosed this to journalists at Gajiram, the headquarters of Nganzai Local Government when Gov. Babagana Zulum visited to condole with the families over the pogrom orchestrated by the Boko Haram insurgents. According to him, the insurgents rode on about five motorcycles and lunched a dastardly attack on unsuspecting mourners who were at the burial ground for a burial of one of the villagers. He disclosed about 60 people were killed in the unfortunate incident while a total of 10 people were also injured during the attack. The latest attack on the village, a source informed, may have been caused by a previous blow on the insurgents by security agents which the insurgents suspected was aided by the villagers. “There was a previous security encounter between Boko Haram and security agencies in this village and the insurgents suffered a major setback as many of their weapons were recovered by the army. They are still angry with that attack and that may have prompted their action to go after the villagers at the burial ground,” the source said. Governor Babagana Umara Zulum who condemned the attack equally reaffirmed his commitment to strengthen more ties with security agencies in the state to protect lives and property of the citizenry. He condoled with the families and relations of the murdered villagers and called on the villagers to take their personal security more serious and be more vigilant. He also prayed for the repose of the departed souls and God to grant the families of the deceased the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. The Governor also charged them to secure their communities by giving useful information to security agencies to nip any threat from the bud. Zulum was also at the State Specialist Hospital Maiduguri, to console and sympathize with those who sustained various degree of injuries during the attack.