To get optimal leverage from digital revenue, a music distribution expert and artist and repertoire manager, Damilola Akinwunmi, has outlined pitfalls that Nigerian artistes make and proffered ways out of it. Akinwunmi, who is the founder of Dapper Music Entertainment, describes popular artiste and Empawa founder, Mr Eazi as the poster boy that Nigerian artistes should emulate. “I consider Mr Eazi to be the best at hacking the digital space,” said Akinwunmi. “He is basically tolling a line that everyone should follow and emulate. He also sets the bar so high and if you pay attention to what he does you can benefit a lot as well. “At the moment, I believe that platforms that make the most money for Afrobeats artistes are Apple and Spotify. However, a lot really depends on the artist and type of content. One of the most important mistakes Nigerian make is, they don’t have their content well distributed and monetized on all platforms. It’s easy for artists to neglect some platforms because it’s not popular but when calculated, the missed revenue from that is huge. One of the main sources artist neglect is YouTube Content ID and Monetization on platforms such as SoundCloud and Audio Mack.” While he admits that piracy has become a reoccurring decimal, he said: “I believe things are starting to ease up and the artistes are gradually beginning to know their rights and what they deserve. Before now, artistes promote their songs by sending out the actual MP3 to blogs for upload. Now, some artists are wise, they push out digital download links of their songs on monetized platforms to the blogs for upload as opposed to MP3. Like I said, a lot has to do with the artist first changing their mentality and fighting for their rights. I believe things will start to take shape from there.” Akinwunmi who has been working with rapper, Ice Prince, to reposition his career, has distributed content for popular Nigerian artistes such as Sean Tizzle, Teni, Ice Prince, Mr Real, Orezi among others. Fondly called Dapper Damm, the Sociology graduate of University of Lagos cut his teeth in 2014 promoting rising Nigerian artistes, Koker and Dotman. He moved on in 2016 to join Temple Management, a Lagos, Nigeria-based talent agency as an Entertainment Executive. At Temple, he was in charge of artistes such as Iyanya (Artiste), Adey(Producer), Chris (Artiste USA), Aaron (Producer USA), Tee-Y Mix (Producer).