It was a day to say ‘Thank you’ to the immediate past Deputy Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Pally Iraise by residents of Owan Federal Constituency for providing quality and effective representation. Hon. Iraise had earlier served as Deputy Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Chairman of Owan East Local Government Area and Secretary to the Edo State Government. Last week, the people rolled out the drums to celebrate Iraise by organising a reception in his honour. Chairman of the “Committee of Friends” Hon. Ambrose Imoode said Iraise focused on people-friendly legislation and policies. The reception also provided an avenue to remind their incumbent representative in the House of Representatives, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere to perform above the standard set by Iraise as they would not accept any excuses. Imoode listed some projects executed and attracted by Iraise to include electrification of over 50 communities, construction of the Otuo-Ikhin-Afuze Road, N500 million earth dam projects to provide water for over 50 communities. Others are five health facilities with Doctors’ residence and solar-powered borehole at Ihievbe and Ikpeyan-Okpujid, borehole projects at Ozalla, Uhunmora-Ora, Okpujie, Ukhuse, Eruere, Ugbubezi, Sobe, Otuo, Ake, Ikhin, Igue-Sale, Ikao, Ihievbe, Ogben, Afuze and Errah communities and ICT centres at Michael Imodu College of Physical Education (now a campus of Tayo Akpata University) and Edeki Grammar School. He said several projects attracted by Iraise were geared at economic and social empowerment  of the people. He said: “Owan had hitherto been faced with leadership problems and this has always affected our development.” Other speakers, however, lamented the continued closure of Otuo General Hospital despite N200 million intervention projects by Hon. Iraise. The Otuo General Hospital was built and completed during the administration of Governor Adams Oshiomhole. The intervention of Iraise saw the installation of solar-powered energy, a new ambulance, construction of Radiology building housing X-ray machines; supply and installation of incubators, incinerator; hospital beds, mattresses, trolleys and refrigerators, among others. The residents said the hospital was supposed to make the people have access to quality health care but they had to resort to traditional healers to treat their ailments if they could not go to either Afuze in Owan East Local Government Area, Igarra in Akoko-Edo Local Government Area or Auchi in Estako West Local Government Area for medical care. Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu urged Iraise not to consider retiring from politics as the country still needs his services. He said politicians such as Iraise are difficult to find. On his part, Iraise said he was a restless legislator moving to key ministries because he knew his people would not understand if he counted to them the many motions and bills he sponsored. He said he picked the projects based on their benefits to the people and to achieve the greatest good for the greatest number of people, adding that he has no fears that the projects would be abandoned since funds were released to the tune of 70 per cent. His words: “The Otuo General Hospital is yet to be functional. It is equipped to a standard that is above the normal standard you find in other hospitals. It is a state government facility. The question of why the government has decided not to be attracted to do what they must do in order to inaugurate the hospital is what I don’t have any idea about. I feel bad. I feel sad that people in this community and its environs are dying needlessly. Even if the hospital is just a department alone, we are talking about 150,000 people. We have good health facility but it is not functional. There is total neglect of a good health facility. “I was able to attract these projects because my thought processes were re-modelled. I had to focus on how I would attract Federal projects when people asked me during campaigns what projects I would attract to them. “I used my constituency projects as seed projects to bait Federal Government to start key projects which the government later took over.”