NIGERIAN afro-fusion artiste Burna Boy has been selected by Apple Music to become the latest artiste for their ‘Up Next’ programme. The exclusive documentary with Apple Music will be dropping on the 16th of July after which his new album, African Giant, which is currently on pre-order, will drop on July 26. “The boy is out here with @applemusic the exclusive film drops 16/07,” posted Burna Boy on Instagram. The ‘Up Next’ programme is created by Apple to support rising artistes. Each month ‘Up Next’ selects a rising artist for which Apple Music uses all its resources to give their music visibility to new audiences. This will include an introductory documentary shot on the artiste, an audio EP from a live session which will include an interview and live performance on Beats 1 and an appearance on The Late Show with James Corden which Apple Music partnered with. Speaking about the collaboration in his Beats1 interview with Julie Adenuga, Burna Boy expressed his excitement to be a part of the campaign. “I’m super excited to be part of the Apple Music Up Next campaign,” he said. “Apple continuously comes up with new initiatives to support artists globally and push the African culture. It’s an honor to be a part of this and with my African Giant album coming out soon, the timing is perfect.” From a snippet of the documentary, Burna talked about the birth of his relationship with music. “My granddad was a DJ in Lagos,” he said. “All the records would come to him first … I would find myself being inspired by things that I’ve heard as a kid: Nigerian music or African music, some French music or some Jamaican music. When it’s time for music to be made, it’s almost like my ancestors just come into me and then it’s them.” Speaking about Burna’s collaboration with Apple Music, Apple Music’s Global Editorial Head of Hip-Hop and R&B, Ebro Darden, said, “Burna Boy has built his brand his way and has been on fire all over Africa and the UK. He does things his way and Apple Music is honoured to be able to connect with Burna Boy on this moment and help make the name even more well known!”