Kano State governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on Saturday set up an 11-man committee on Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) with the task of increasing revenue generation drive in the state by 300 per cent within the next six months. The directive was sequel to the poor revenue generation drive by some contracted consultants, coupled with alleged underhand dealings and non-remittance of funds realised to government coffers. Ganduje, who recalled that his administration restructured the IGR agency at inception, with a view to raising the stakes of revenue generation, pointed out that more needed to be done as revenue collection in the state still remains lower than expected. He further stated that with increasing demand of provision of democratic dividends in the face of dwindling oil production, there is need to look inwards so as to boost the revenue generation in the state. “The price of oil is going down every day; coupled with security challenges being faced in the oil producing areas which has reduced the quantum of oil production. “With our agenda of taking Kano to the Next Level, where we already have free education from primary to secondary school levels; we have also pledged to improve the living standard of people living in the rural areas, so there is need to improve on our revenue generation drive.” Ganduje said. He clarified that the new tax regime is not meant to tighten the living condition of the common man, but a matter of necessity to increase the state’s revenue base. He charged the committee to block leakages and ensure total compliance to their terms of reference. The terms of reference of the committee include 300 per cent increase in six months, ensuring total compliance of revenue generation remittance to the state Treasury Single Account (TSA), review tax agreement with revenue generating agencies, advise government on IGR and create public awareness and strategy to improve IGR in the state. Responding, the chairman of the committee and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Dr. Ali Haruna Makoda, assured the government of the committee’s determination to meet the mandate given to them. 