Bayelsa State stakeholders under the auspices of the Ogbia Renaissance (OR), has called on the state’s Traditional Rulers Council (TRC) and the government to sanction the King of Opume in Ogbia, A.J. Turner, for his partisanship. The group in a statement at the weekend also carpeted Turner following his recent attack on the state Governor, Seriake Dickson, describing the monarch as ungrateful. Turner earlier wrote to security agencies claiming that Dickson was after his life a few weeks to the governorship primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The king, who alleged that the state government owed him N1.8bn, was sighted in the entourage of a governorship aspirant in Abuja during the collection of PDP’s intent and expression of interest forms. But the Chairman of OR, Mr. Obhioru Mitanoni, in the statement said that Turner acted contrary to Section 6, Cap C4 of the Bayelsa State Chieftaincy law when he accompanied a politician to pick a gubernatorial form at the national headquarters of the party in Abuja. Mitanoni said that Turner’s recent activities were unbecoming of the expected conduct of a traditional ruler and should be sanctioned by the state government and the relevant traditional institutions with supervisory responsibilities over the conduct and operations of traditional rulers in the state. The group expressed the alarm that Chief Turner a known ally of Dickson, who was made a Second Class traditional ruler by the governor continued to sponsor sustained acts of subversion against the government and should be brought under immediate control. Mitanoni said that as critical stakeholders, who had followed the relationship between Turner and the Governor, the group was shocked by recent allegations being peddled by the traditional ruler that the governor was after his life. He said it was a statement of fact beyond contradiction that Turner remained the biggest beneficiary of the Dickson administration in terms of appointments, contract awards and special favours because of the relationship which was imperiled by Turner’s alleged insatiable greed. He stressed that it was shocking that Turner, who singlehandedly recommended over 60 percent of the political appointees during the first term of the administration, could turn round to perpetrate subversive activities with brazen impunity against the same government. Mitanoni said that Turner recommended the appointment of the former Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Allison Oguru, the Commissioner for Sports, Mitema Obodo, (member of the House of Assembly), Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Duatei Iyabi, the former Accountant General, Joseph Aseimo, the Attorney General, the late Sylvanus Egele SAN, and many others. He said that the group was also aware that the governor appointed the wife of Turner as a Permanent Secretary, his son as a Commissioner and his nephew as Chairman of Ogbia Local Government Area among others. Mitanoni alleged that Turner was crying wolf where there was none as it was public knowledge that violence and killings had no place in politics of Dickson. He said that Turner would attest to the fact that Dickson was not in the category of people behind the mysterious death of Justice Igoniwari, former Commissioner for Information, Azibolanari Nelson, Ombu Alike, and the diabolical attack on Chief Asara Asara, who escaped death by the whiskers. Mitanoni stressed that the state governor owed the state a responsibility to enforce the laws guiding the conduct and operations of traditional rulers in the state by applying the relevant laws of the land. He called on the members of the public to disregard the mischievous campaign of calumny being peddled against the governor by a man, who benefited the most from the government but whose alleged insatiable greed for power and control turned him against the government. He urged the governor not to allow loyalty to friendship and sentiments to restrain himself from ensuring implementation of the relevant laws guiding the operations of the traditional institutions especially the traditional rulers in the state. Mitanoni challenged Turner to tell the Nigerian public how much he and the companies he has interest in, received from 2012 to date since he claimed that the governor owed him about N1.8bn. He urged Turner to search his conscience to at least appreciate how his relationship with Dickson rescued him from the Ogbia people who did not want to have anything to do with him because of his perceived excesses. He warned that Turner’s recent pastime of ingratitude to the efforts of the governor and unrestrained subversive acts could only expose him further to the political tigers, who were known very well to him.