You can call Chioma Omeruah, a.k.a Chigul, a chip of the old block. After all she is the daughter of erstwhile Chairman of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA), the late Air Commodore Samson Emeka Omeruah, and the famed linguist and comedienne speaks candidly about the late former governor of old Anambra State in a chat with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Her father was revered as one of the best things to have happened to Nigerian sports, particularly football, since his term coincided with some of the country’s sporting golden era. No wonder the late Sir Samson Emeka Omeruah, the debonair erstwhile Chairman of the Nigeria Football Association (NFA), has yet been described as a patriot extraordinaire by no less a person than his daughter, Chioma Omeruah, a.k.a. Chigul. “My dad epitomised the phrase ‘an officer and a gentleman’; he was both things,” an emotional Chigul, the famed linguist and comedienne said in an interview with The Nation. “He was a true Nigerian who believed in his country and served it to the best of his ability “He was….he was the best dad ever. I miss him so much.” The late Omeruah, a Knight of the Anglican Diocese of Nigeria, was a three-time Minister for Information, Youth, Sport and Culture and was in charge in 1985 when the Golden Eaglets won the inaugural FIFA Under-16 World Championship Cup in China. He  was also chairman of the NFA when the Super Eagles won the  Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Tunisia 1994 as well as when the national Under-23 team won the  historic Africa’s first soccer gold medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. The late air commodore of the Nigerian Air Force and former governor of old Anambra State between 1985 and 1988 died on 4th December 2006 at a London hospital. Chigul waxed more about her father: “My dad was never in support of a career in entertainment; he was a typical Igbo military dad and his plan for me was actually to go and be a lawyer but as you can see that didn’t pan out. “After years of trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life I ended up studying French education and then moving back to Nigeria comedy just sort of happened and here we are. “My father is late now but my mother is very supportive of me and she is proud and I think if my father were here today he would have  been  proud as well. “Everyone has to find their path, he(my father)  had his, I have mine but sometimes I feel like comedy is a sport.” Indeed, Chigul has cut out a niche for herself as far as the Nigerian entertainment industry is concerned and has featured in some top Nollywood films including Road to Yesterday; Banana Island Ghost; The Wedding Party, amongst other notable works. “As a child I was always the one that was mimicking people and making fun and sort of being the very jovial and very active one in the family,” she offered about her early interest in entertainment. “So I think maybe you can say I was prepared for it. “It’s literally what I’m doing now but just as an adult and maybe making money from it so it’s on a different scale. But I think I’ve been doing this since I was a little girl.” Of course, there are so much stereotypes accustomed to gals in the entertainment industry but Chigul is of the view that any serious minded person would bother little about such if she is determined enough to make a name for herself.  “Sadly, there are very many stereotypes (about the entertainment industry) and it is part of the challenges we face as women in the industry but you have to sort of fight your way to hold your place amongst so many men. “It is a male-dominated industry but I think one of the things one continues to try to do is stay relevant and be innovative with one style of comedy so that one can sort of like maintain one’s place. “It’s not necessarily been the easiest task but we take it one day at a time and I’ve had to deal with stereotypes. But I guess for me it’s more like maybe people assuming that because of who my father was, that’s why I am where I am but I’m so glad that the two had nothing to do with each other. Rather, I think maybe who my dad was sort of like gave me a soft landing in some certain areas. But with regards to the talent and gift that I’ve been given, that has nothing to do with who my father was,” she noted as she responded to sundry issues. What are some of your dad’s attributes that are inherent in you? Let’s see… his love for language. He spoke many languages, I speak five and he was a handsome man. Your dad was regarded as one of the best things to have happened to Nigerian sport especially football, how come none of his children is found around sporting environment? Everyone has to find their path, he had his, I have mine…but sometimes I feel like comedy is a sport. What informed your choice of Chigul as your preferred nickname? Chigul was not planned as the nickname, I just happened to come across a gentleman once in my life who in trying to give me a nickname as in chi girl but because he was very Igbo it came out as Chigul and when I told my friends about it they used to make fun of me all the time and I guess the name just stuck. Many actors are reportedly living from hand to mouth despite the glitz and glamour of being in the entertainment industry; do you also subscribe to this and what would be the way out for distressed people in the industry? In business as in life, there are ups and downs and sometimes, yes, you have dry spells. You go through times where the money might not be coming in as it should or as you would like it and of course we are all laden with responsibilities. So, yes, sometimes it’s difficult but that’s why one has to be very wise in the way one handles money and has to think extensively about investing in other projects so that one has many sources of income; so that when one is low and other one can help offset. So, I agree, but we just have to be wise in this our business… You once described yourself as a big dreamer; what are the things you have in the pipeline? Wow! So many things. I’m planning my one-woman show which will come up sometime in September and about three or four TV projects. But we are also still shooting films and I’m compering events, and I’m also thinking about going into singing because I also sing jazz… The mention of Chigul usually brought back your emotional outburst during that session with Kemi Adetiba on the set of the ‘king women’ but what lessons has life taught you? That interview was one of the most vulnerable times of my life. It was such a long time ago and I have come such a long way. I have learnt and I’m still learning very many life lessons. That interview was from a long time ago and I was in a very strange, dark place. From your experience, what are prerequisites for a happy marriage and are you ready to give marriage a short again? I don’t think I am in any position to give advice as situations are relative and very different. Would I marry again? Of course. What sort of guy would be the dream guy for Chigul? I don’t have a dream guy since I live in a real world.  Just someone who is living to build a life with me. You’re a polyglot, what are those languages that you’re at home with and how easy was it for you to learn languages? Currently, I speak French, Spanish, Igbo, Hausa and English. I studied French education in university and I taught French in high school for about three years and I taught myself Spanish for one year. I just love languages. What changes would you like to see in the Nigerian society and how can we get to the next level with some of the best countries in the world? One of the things that I’ve always considered to be sad is how much resources are wasted by way of young people having nothing to do. They go to university, come out, there are no jobs and so sometimes they are forced to resort to illegal means just to make ends meet. In the same vein, there are no outlets for them to also explore their other talents. People should be allowed to dream and work towards realising those dreams… there is so much potential in all of us. What are the things that make you happy and sad? My family makes me happy. My friends make me happy. My job makes me happy. The fans make me happy. I try not to be sad because it affects my work. Happiness all the way. What are your best kept secrets? I guess my other hidden talents. There are so many things that I do people don’t know about….