The Ekiti State Government has declared war against sales of fake drugs to ensure safety of the people. The Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, stressed that the state government would not relent in efforts to guarantee the safety of public health. Egbeyemi disclosed this on Wednesday while addressing members of the Nigerian Association of Patent and Proprietary Medicine Dealers (NAPPMED), Ekiti State Chapter, during a rally to the Governor’s Office in Ado Ekiti. The NAPPMED members staged the rally to declare their support for the administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi which they said had made great impact in the life of the people within a short time of coming to power. The medicine dealers who carried various placards with inscriptions declaring support for the Fayemi administration marched round the major streets of the state capital before terminating the march at the Governor’s Office. Some of their placards read: “Thank you for revisiting abandoned projects”, “We pledged our unflinching support to Fayemi”, “We stand with Fayemi for Ekiti development”, “We thank you for regular payment of Salary and Pension” among others. The Deputy Governor who spoke through the Deputy Chief of Staff, Mr. Tade Aluko, assured that the state government would partner with relevant agencies, unions, and associations to prosecute fake drug vendors across the State. Egbeyemi charged the association to identify and notify the government about individuals who posed threat to the health of the public through the sales of fake drugs. While noting that the security of lives and properties are basic responsibility of government, Egbeyemi maintained what government would not compromise the safety of the general public and investment. In his address, the President of NAPPMED, Ekiti State Chapter, Mr. Tunde Oke, explained that the rally was to congratulate Fayemi on his election as the Chairman, Nigerian Governor’s Forum and his serial victories at Election Petition Tribunal down to the Supreme Court. The NAPPMED boss revealed that the rally was also designed to identify and show solidarity with the various developmental strides and programmes of the Fayemi administration, which he said has given the State a facelift and brought succour to the masses Oke who led members of the Association in their large numbers round the State Capital wants the State government to look into the activities of Chemist and Supermarket Association of Nigeria (CASOAN) whom were alleged of selling fake drugs. “This group with some members at Ado Ekiti alone has been a problem selling anything sellable either genuine or fake, we are appealing to you to please help direct your SSA on public health to wade into the activity of this so called group so that there can be sanctity in our health care system,” he said. Also present at the rally were the state All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman,  Mr. Paul Omotoso; Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Mobilisation, Prince Tunji Ogunlola and other political office holders in the office of the Deputy Governor.