Lagos State Governor, Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu, has reiterated his administration’s commitment to give maximum support to private sectors in form of technological advancement that will add value to the health sector. Speaking at the unveiling of the state-of-the-art Critical Care and Advanced Urology, Neurosurgery and Dialysis Service at Lagoon Hospital, Ikoyi, Lagos, recently, Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr. Titilayo Goncalves, pointed out that his government is committed to the attainment of qualitative and sustainable healthcare delivery, as this occupies the front burner in his administration. According to Sanwo-Olu, it is heartwarming and commendable that Lagoon Hospital has put in place the world class Critical Care and Advanced Urology services which include an Holminum Laser for advanced care of the kidney and bladder, along with equipment for the management of prostate problems, Kinevo 900 operating microscope for neurovascular surgery, minimally invasive surgery for skull based lesions, dialysis cent, an expanded, fully kitted and staffed 12 bedded Intensive Care Unit. Goncloves said the facility is a welcome development, as it is geared towards reducing medical tourism and making significant investment in latest medical technology to offer first class healthcare services to Nigerians and other West African countries. He said that the Lagos State government is currently developing modern technology to tackle challenges hindering best practices in the health sector, adding that “in its bid to curb quackery and ensure qualitative healthcare delivery to Lagosians, government has unveiled an extensive plan to reposition and re-energise the state’s Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency, (HEFAMAA) for quick and efficient service delivery.” Also speaking, the Chief Medical Director and Chief of Surgery, Lagoon Hospital, Dr. Jimi Coker, said the hospital’s choice to invest hugely on these technologies was borne out of the need to fill the gaps within the country’s health sector. “This is a strategic decision by our hospital with the aim to reduce medical tourism. The number of Nigerians leaving the country to seek such medical treatment abroad continues to grow unabated with up to $1 billion lost revenue to the Nigerian economy,” said Coker.