Teni, Rema, Joeboy, Fireboy and Flash were among music stars that thrilled attendees of the first prom concert, Afriprom, which held on Sunday at the Eko Hotel Convention Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. Tagged ‘Afroprom,’ the event which was organised by J. Vanni Global was anticipated by thousands of students since it was announced. Speaking on getting students from over 100 secondary schools to attend, Assistant Creative Director and Road Manager, J. Vanni Global, Adebisi Odubela said: “We had to visit every school because we wanted these teens to know that we were serious about creating a platform for them.” Attendees were also treated to comedy from ace comedian Ushbebe, alongside electric dance renditions by celebrity dance group Dream Catchers, and Don Flex & the Extigate team. The audience also listened to inspirational speeches from musician-turned politician Banky W, Red Media co-founder, Debola Williams and Bada Akintunde Johnson, Country Manager of Viacom International Media Networks Africa. Also speaking at the event was Mrs Adebimpe Ihekuna, Group Head, Products & Markets Development Group, Polaris Bank Limited, who addressed the audience on seven important keys required to drive unimaginable success. The title of Prom King and Queen were voted in by the audience from a shortlist of three, selected from hundreds of entries. Master Ogbole Kenneth, a recent graduate of St Gloria’s college, Ikeja, Lagos and Miss Okonkwo Angela of Apex Brilliant Academy, Alimosho, Lagos emerged winners of the maiden prom King and Queen crowns respectively. In addition to their star prizes, the prom King & Queen will also enjoy an exclusive lunch with a celebrity act next weekend. Commenting on the success of the event, J. Vanni Global Creative Director, Mobola Abiru said: “This is what we always wanted to do: create a platform for these teens and young adults to mingle and network freely, learning key life values yet having the time of their lives. We are proud of this initiative and how great this turned out to be.”