There was jubilation among a set of students from the Rivers State University, Port Harcourt recently. They are pioneer students of the Centre of Excellence in Marine Offshore Engineering sponsored by the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) and its Joint Ventures (SPDC-JV). They were excited because of the provisions Shell made for them. They will go through mandatory six months Research Internship with Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) in Lagos. The internship is a key requirement for the award of the Masters of Science (MSc) degree after a year of academic work. Four of the students are working with SNEPCO, three others are with Total Exploration and Production Nigeria and the other three students are with BW Offshore in a successful collaboration between industry and academia. The General Manager External Relations of the SPDC, Igo Weli said the programme was instituted to enable the company to graduate people ready for the industry. He said the graduates would be equipped with skills and required knowledge to provide services hitherto performed by expatriates. He said: “The Research Internship enables the students to have critical industry experience, hands-on practical training and opportunity to undertake post-graduate research under competent industry supervisors and working with state-of-the-art facilities. “The programme enables us to graduate industry-ready young Nigerians and domicile in-country several services usually provided by expatriates”. Also speaking, the Director of the RSU CoE, Dr. Ibiba Douglas, said after the internship, the students would be expected to defend Master of Science thesis to enable them to graduate from the centre. “All 10 pioneer students of the centre have commenced internship in the respective companies to which they are engaged and after the internship phase in December, the students, on their return to school, will defend their M. Sc. thesis in order to graduate,” he said. While the 10 students began their internship, eight post graduate students of another SPDC-sponsored Centre of Excellence (CoE) in Geosciences and Petroleum Engineering at the University of Benin (UNIBEN) recently concluded their programme. They described their experience as landmark in their careers. One of them, Orilade Success said: “The past six months have been a landmark experience in our careers. We have taken note of the learnings and feedback and, moving forward, we won’t let you down as ambassadors of this reputable organisation. This is certainly a step in the right direction for us all.” In 2013, SPDC collaborated with the University of Benin to begin academic work at the Centre of Excellence for post-graduate studies in Geosciences and Petroleum Engineering. The Director of the UNIBEN CoE, Prof. Joseph Ebeniro said: “SPDC JV investment in talented Nigerian youths, supported by other industry stakeholders, is providing special academic platform to produce industry-ready graduates for employment in the E&P industry, as well as undertake research to address industry challenges.” Speaking on the importance attached to the programme by SPDC, Weli said the company had a long history of supporting education in Nigeria. He said the company currently operates four categories of scholarship schemes. He said: “SPDC JV has a long history of support for education in Nigeria. As part of its commitment to the holistic education of Nigerians, especially young people from its areas of operations, SPDC JV currently runs four categories of scholarship schemes. “These are Regular Secondary School Scholarship Scheme (providing annual financial support to secondary school students. The second programme is Cradle-to-Career’ another Secondary School Scholarship Scheme focused on providing quality full-boarding secondary education in reputable private secondary schools to selected talented primary six pupils from public schools across Nigeria and developing the recipients into functional citizens that can confidently face life and compete favourably with their counterparts from anywhere in the world. “There is also the University Scholarship Scheme started in 1953 and is a flagship programme providing support to Nigerian students in all accredited universities across Nigeria. “The fourth category, the SPDC JV Post-Graduate Scholarships Scheme launched in 2009 and aimed at building a talent pipeline in our host communities is a one-year Master’s degree programme offering selected post-graduate scholarships for the training of graduates in the core competence areas of Petroleum Engineering, Subsurface Studies and Facilities Engineering in three of the topmost universities in these fields in the United Kingdom.”