Barely six days after it recovered 14 vehicles said to be carted away by officials who served in the immediate past administration, Oyo state government on Tuesday said it has recovered additional five. The vehicles, which bring to a total of 19, have been recovered from a mechanic workshop in Olodo area of the state. The vehicles include two Nissan civilian buses, one Volare W8 armoured bus, one Mitsubishi Montero Jeep and Hyundai car. The recovering process was said to be the fruit of intelligence report from members of the public who knew where the vehicles were parked. The Executive Assistant to Governor Seyi Makinde on Security Matters, Mr. Sunday Odukoya, who led the recovery team to the mechanic workshop, said findings revealed two of the buses were in good working conditions but were on the verge of being repainted. While confirming the vehicles were among those carted away by the officials of the past administration, Odukoya said more would be recovered with time. He did not give the details of the identities of those who parked the vehicles at the mechanic workshop or those behind moves to change the colour of the vehicles. He said: “Intelligent report was received by His Excellency and it was passed to me and I have to trace it down here. And that intelligence information has led us to this particular place where five government vehicles are recovered. “The recovered vehicles include three buses, one of which is an armoured vehicle; one Montero jeep and one Hyundai car, making a total of five vehicles. “Two of the buses are in good condition but surprisingly, they wanted to change the colours. “Because from the responses got from the mechanic in charge of this workshop, he said the vehicles are in good conditions but only that they wanted to change the colours. “They are obviously parts of the vehicles of government that were carted away, at least going by their registration numbers and details. So, there is no doubt that they are all government vehicles. “Initially, 14 vehicles were recovered if 14 had been recovered, this is another five making it a total of 19 that have been recovered till date. We are sure we will recover more with time.”