Organized Labour is partnering the global labour body, Uniglobal, for the implementation of the new minimum wage. Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabba, made this known at the opening ceremony of the 21st Uni-Africa executive committee meeting in Lagos. He said the major problem facing workers was the government’s refusal to implement the new wage. Wabba, represented by NLC General Secretary, Peter Ozo-Eson, lamented that it took members of the labour movement three years to negotiate the minimum wage, which implementation was being stalled by the adjustment of the salary scales. Wabba, who is also the International Trade Union Congress (ITUC), said: “We must be ready for the struggle ahead and would require the support of Uniglobal in that struggle.” Trade Union Congress (TUC) President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, urged Uniglobal to make issues affecting workers in Africa their major concern. “The world of work is taking a new shape and workers’body like Uniglobal needs to impress on government and employers to have human face in their policies,” he said. The Secretary-General, Uniglobal, Christine Hofman, who said the meeting was her first in Africa after her election last year and her first time to visit Nigeria, condemned the fact that workers had continued to struggle to win at the bargaining table or bargain at all. Hofman, who said membership of the global union cut across all spheres of human endeavour, also lamented what she described as shameful inequality of income and wealth. “In fact, did you know that only 28 people own half of the world’s wealth?  It will take all of us pulling together to fix these problems. And at UNI we are doing our best to play a role to turn the tide for workers,” she said. She stated that Uniglobal was committed to the International Labour Organisation declaration, which sees a future with social justice, human centered future, with workers and social dialogue at the core. She maintained that it was through organising and union power that workers’ groups can break the resistance of the multinationals and other local companies in the protection of workers right. “It is on all of our shoulders to safeguard dignity at work, to hold big employers accountable, to win our fair share, and to make the world a better place. We are stronger together. Together we can change the world,” she said. Earlier, Oyinkan Olasanoye, the  Association of Banks Insurance and Financial Institutions(ASSBIFI) President, who is also a member of the executive committee of Uniglobal Africa and the convener, said Nigeria was hosting the event for the first time in 21 years. She reasoned that some African countries and others outside the continent had the misconception that Nigeria was bedeviled with insecurity, which was the more reason they were invited to the country to correct the views. “Now that you have been here and seen things for yourself, the next time you come into the country, we will be able to shower you with more Nigerian hospitality and take you around to places of cultural interest,” she said.