OFFICIALS of the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) yesterday visited the premises of controversial Ibadan-based recycling plant, Heng Xing Company Limited, at Unity Layout, off Eleyele/Eruwa Road, Ibadan. The visit followed complaints filed by landlords and residents in the area. The landlords’ association had written petitions against the company to agencies, including the Ministry of environment, complaining of hazards caused by the operation of its plant. In their letters, the landlords complained of noise, environmental, air pollution and structural damages on their buildings, owing to the company’s operation. They alleged that about 10 houses had been affected by damages. During the visit, they inspected some residential buildings alleged to have been affected. NESREA Director-General and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Prof. Aliyu Jauro, who led the delegation, said the purpose of the visit was to ascertain the true situation of things in the area, following complaints by the landlords. Officials, who were on the delegation of the agency’s director-general include Director, Southwest Zone Mr. I. A. Ajani; Director, Special Duties Mr. Abdulsalam Isa; Head of Administration Mr. Saliu Bala; Special Assistant to DG Mr. Bello Makama; Protocol (Head) Mr. Adeleke Waheed; Legal Officer Mr. Ejindu Ifeanyi; Principal Admin Officer Miss Mordi Mary and the State Coordinator Mr. Toyin Obagiri. Heng Xing Company Limited operates at the former plants vacated by Askar Paints Limited on Eleyele/Eruwa road. The property is owned by Odu’a Investment Limited. The landlords appealed to the Ministry of Environment, Oyo State, NESREA and  Odu’a Investment Limited. Addressing the NESREA Director-General on arrival on Wednesday, the Chairman of Unity Layout Landlords and Residents Association, Mr. Wale Aderinto, also handed over documents and pictorial evidences of damages done to several buildings. He said the residents have been finding it difficulty, following the operation of the company since January. He said: “Since this company came around January to occupy the place formerly occupied by Askar Paints, it has been from one agony to the other. “We have been experiencing air, sound pollution as well as structural damages. They work 24/7, except until recently when they were prevailed upon. Still, they work till 10 pm in most cases. Recently, our water has been polluted. Kindly safe us from this hallowing experience.” Assuring the residents, Jauro stated that the agency’s visit was in line with its standards and rules. He assured that the agency will make a statement without bias and favouritism in accordance with the law over the issue. He also visited the premises of the company to ascertain their mode of operation and have an overview of their facilities. 