The new Group Managing Director of Zenith Bank International Plc, Mr Ebenezer Onyeagwu has assured shareholders and other stakeholders that the bank has sustainable structure that will ensure continuous growth and improved returns to shareholders. Onyeagwu spoke yesterday in Lagos during an introductory visit to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The new GMD was honoured with the ceremonial beating of the closing gong at the stock market. He said the main responsibility of the new leadership of the bank is to uphold the strong legacy and outstanding pedigree that has been set by the previous management by improving financial performance and shareholders’ value. “We will do everything within us to elevate the strong value and the excellent performance that the bank has been known with. Under the new leadership, we will delivered outstanding performance, reward our shareholders, provide strong timely disclose to the market,” Onyeagwu said. According to him, while the management may not be able to immediately predict the outcomes of many headwinds in the banking sector and the overall economy, it is certain that the bank will predictably deliver impressive results. He allayed fears in some quarters that the new loan-to-deposit ratio of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) will negatively impact the banking sector noting that increased loans and more effective credit risk management will result in greater benefits for the banking sector and the general economy. According to him, the loan-to-deposit ratio policy of apex bank is a laudable initiative that will boost the economy. He noted that the policy will facilitate lending to the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) sector as well as the retail sector of the economy, which will bring positive impact to the overall economy. He pointed out that while the attitudes of some borrowers have been major impediments to lending, improved technology in the banking sector has helped to reduce the tendency to serial loan defaulters. “With the BVN, this has help in solving the problem of identity and the Banker’s Committee is working on building stronger capability into that. The capability that will enable us enforce very effective and tight credit control such that if a customer takes a loan from Bank A and abandoned it and go to Bank B to open account, with the BVN, such customer can be traced. If the customer is owning Bank A N1 million and go to Bank B to  open an account and deposit N2 million, electronically, the system will recover the money from the debtor. We believe this will help drive decent behaviour and promote good credit borrowers,” Onyeagwu said. He added that the bank would continue to invest in cutting-edge technology to boost its digital banking, which remains a priority.