In its quest to make internet connectivity affordable and accessible to its teeming and prospective subscribers, Spectranet Limited has introduced Spectra-cular data plans. According to Chief Executive Officer Mr Ajay Awasthi, “in a rapidly evolving data market like Nigeria, the subscribers most often get confused by extremely complex and difficult -to-understand data plans offered by various operators. At Spectranet, we understand data users’ behaviour much better, being the first operator to launch 4G LTE services in Nigeria. For example, over a time we have noticed a significant shift in usage behaviour from day time tonight time driven by Youtubers, online videos, and students undertaking massive open online courses (MOOC). Structured to suit the needs of all types of data users – casual users, moderate users and heavy users, these simple easy-to-understand plans named as Unified Value, Mega Value and Always On plan, singularly focus on delivering superior value to the subscribers resulting in significant savings. “The core idea behind the launch of these plans is to offer Data users  superior value through simple, uncomplicated data plans packing in either bonus night time GBs or Unlimited Night time browsing. Our subscribers in all usage categories can now enjoy seamless day-night access to Internet without having to worry about paying exorbitant charges. Spectra-cular data plans empower subscribers to “do more” and “save more” with reliable and affordable internet,” he said. The Unified Value Plans offer FREE night bonus along with main data bank. For instance when a customer buys N3000 Unified Value plan, he gets 4GB anytime data plus 4GB night bonus for 1 month. This pack is specially designed for moderate data users. The Mega Value Plans offers unlimited night browsing along with main data bank. For e.g. when a customer buys N8000 Mega value plan, he gets 15GB anytime data plus Free Unlimited Night browsing for 1 month. This pack is specially crafted for heavy data users. Spectra-cular data plans are tied to Spectranet’s vision of providing unique customer experience and service excellence. Spectra-cular data plans are available in Spectranet’s coverage areas: Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Ibadan. The plans are available on request via the Spectranet app and website – https://spectranet.com.ng/dataplan. Spectranet Limited was the first Internet Service Provider (ISP) to launch 4G LTE internet service in Nigeria. The brand is known for providing affordable, faster and more reliable internet broadband to Nigerian homes and offices. Its internet service is currently available across Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Port Harcourt. Its state of the art 4G LTE network ensures high-speed internet connectivity for the customers. Spectranet 4G LTE is a recipient of multiple awards for Best Internet Service and 4G LTE Provider in Nigeria in 2016, 2017 and 2018.