Talented, pretty and super-smart, this week’s celebrities are some of the brightest stars in entertainment. In addition to these attributes, they are also single and, some are, searching. From ageless beauties to and super-gorgeous, these actresses, singers, OAPs, models; all have some things in common- they are all pretty and super single! So, we bring you the drop-dead gorgeous singles in Nollywood. Nancy Isime: She’s one of the hottest OAPs and actresses. The model is each and every man’s dream. As a model, she has worked with Ade Bakere, Adebayo Jones, Zizi Cardow, Shakara Couture and others. Beverly Naya: Beautiful from whatever angle you look at her, the British-Nigerian actress is one of Nollywood’s best.  She was the winner of the Most Promising Talent award at the 2010 Best of Nollywood Awards. Chika Ike: Actress, former model and businesswoman, Chika has remained coy about her relationship status since she filed for divorce due to domestic violence in 2013. Rita Dominic: Rita is one of Nigeria’s few screen goddesses. A superstar and one of the most beautiful women in Nollywood, she’s succeeded in keeping her private affairs away from the media. Rukky Sanda: Tally, leggy and beautiful Rukky marked her birthday last year with a daring jump from a plane. Although her wish was skydive from 30,000 feet, the occasionally controversial actress ended up doing it from 13,000 feet. Rukky who’s rumoured to have dated one of the US’ biggest music acts is single. Munachi Abi: Who wouldn’t know her? The ex-beauty queen is everything rolled into one: she’s an actress, rapper, singer, hip hop artist, model and songwriter.  Gorgeous and smart, she’s a past winner of the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant. Chidinma: Sultry singer, Chindima is still doing her thing despite not giving us a hit in recent times. One time winner of Project Fame and established artiste, Chindima is pretty and very well talented. She has not been officially seen/linked with anyone in recent times. Seyi Shayi:Talented singer, songwriter and actress is notoriously private. But last year,she told a newspaper she was ready for marriage. Bimbo Akintola: She is certainly one of Nollywood’s most eligible bachelorettes. Bimbo is one of Nigeria’s longstanding movie stars whose career has cut across the stage, Nollywood and the Yoruba movie industry. Waje: Singer, philanthropist and mother of one, Waje, is one lady who is gorgeous inside out. She has one of the best voices around. Her vocals helped to power hits like ‘Do me’ from the defunct PSquare and M.I’s ‘One Naira’. Tiwa Savage: Since her very public break-up with Tunji “Tee Billz” Balogun, Tiwa has kept her relationships under-the-radar although she was linked with Wizkid at a time.