Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President Comrade Ayuba Wabba, in this interview with TOBA AGBOOLA, says the government’s efforts to diversify the economy, attract foreign direct investment and create jobs are being frustrated by systemic challenges. He also pledged to double efforts at protecting workers’ interest. ASSESS the economy and state your expectation from the government, especially in this second term? According to the 2019African Economic Outlook Report+- by the Africa Development Bank, Nigeria’s economy is expected to grow at 2.3 per cent this year. This would be an improvement on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) performance in 2017 and 2018. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Gross Domestic Product grew by 1.81 per cent (year-on-year) in real terms in the third quarter of 2018. This seems slightly better than the growth of 1.17 per cent achieved in the third quarter of 2017. This is encouraging as it shows that our economy has made a rebound from the recession of 2014 -2016. This pattern of growth is expected to sustain Nigeria’s status as the largest economy on the continent, contributing about 20 per cent of Africa’s GDP. However, despite the promising nature of the economy, it is yet to be weaned from import dependency. Our economy remains essentially rent seeking, subsistence, non-inclusive, vulnerable to shocks from the global commodities market, fraught to unwieldy inflationary trends and unable to create sustainable mass jobs. The government’s efforts to diversify the economy, attract foreign direct investment, increase foreign exchange revenue and create more jobs are being frustrated by systemic challenges. The challenges include endemic corruption, institutional chaos, crises in our social sector, and disabling physical infrastructure – electricity supply, water, rail system, road network, inland waterways transportation among others. What is the way out of unemployment? A 2010 British Council Report on Nigeria identified unemployment, especially youth unemployment, as a demographic time bomb. Today, the bombs are going off in all directions by way of upsurge in crime and restiveness. The National Bureau of Statistics(NBS) reported in December 2018 that Nigeria’s unemployment rate stood at 23.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2018, up from 18.1 per cent same period in 2017. At the last count, the combined unemployment and underemployment rate in Nigeria was 43.3 per cent. Of course, we have noted the efforts by President Muhammadu Buhari to create mass jobs through the diversification of the economy, particularly through the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). My advice is that these initiatives be anchored on a strong commitment to industrialisation. We also call for the revival of the intermediate and capital goods production segments of the industrial sector, especially the auto assembly plants, the steel industry, the fertiliser and petrochemical industries in the context of a medium-term national development planning. We must develop a national consciousness and culture that frowns at exporting raw materials without value addition. All tiers of the government should try to provide incentives to drive and sustain the growth of labour-intensive industrial sector. There are millions of jobs locked down in the untapped value chains in our agricultural, petroleum and mining sectors. Now is the time to unlock them and provide decent jobs for our youths. Now is the time to reconstruct the sour narrative of exporting jobs and prosperity to other climes and importing joblessness, poverty and misery into the motherland. Also, the de-industrialisation of Nigeria, as already identified, is the reason for the plague of mass unemployment and poverty ravaging our country. Industrialisation is the key to delivering sustainable jobs and is crucial for the overall growth of the national economy; it is the foundation for good living standards. Unfortunately, the manufacturing capacity utilisation (MCU) in our country has fallen headlong over the years. Nigeria might be the largest economy in Africa but the contribution of manufacturing to our economic size is appalling. From 75 per cent manufacturing capacity utilisation in 1980, Nigeria has fallen to 54.6 per cent as at September 2018. For me, I think we should emulate the tested and proven prototypes elsewhere in places, such as Singapore, Argentina, Brazil, India and China to attract relevant production lines and labour-intensive industries to Nigeria. This would help to engage the teeming population of our country in industrial production, build the skills of Nigerians and place Nigeria in a progressive manufacturing trajectory. Similarly, the government should provide practical incentives and support to encourage large scale industries to develop networks of SMEs to be part of their production networks and supply chains. This is the most viable way to promote horizontal integration. The textile industry that used to be the highest provider of employment is moribund. What is the way forward? Yes, you are right.There was a time the textile industry was the highest provider of employment in Nigeria, second only to the public sector. The story of our textile industry has been reduced to a tale of tears. From more than 175 textile factories in the late ‘80s, we can only boast of less than 27 surviving ones. The greatest social tragedy in the near total collapse of our textile industry is the mass retrenchment of hundreds of thousands of workers and the attendant suffering that their families are exposed to. We cannot allow this sad state of affairs to continue indefinitely. We demand the recovery of the cotton value chain. The government must also urgently revisit the textile revitalisation fund. The Obasanjo administration and later the Yar’Adua administration, secured N100 billion intervention fund to revive our textile sector. We need to know what was responsible for the less than successful impact of this big fund invested to revitalise the sector and what needs to be done to avoid the pitfalls from that experience. Nigeria with almost 200 million people is a massive market for textile materials, and it is sad that we produce far less than 25 per cent of our peoples’ clothing needs. The infra-structural and other challenges that have continued to hinder the growth and development of the textile sector need to be addressed head on by the various governments of the federation. Furthermore, we implore the government to make it a policy that the Armed Forces, Police, Customs, Immigration, Civil Defence, Federal Road Safety Corps and all uniformed services personnel should be kitted with locally produced textile and footwear. Also, appropriate directives should be given that the uniforms of all school children in Nigeria should be made from textile produced by local industries. This same gesture should be extended to all locally manufactured goods in order to guarantee markets for them. Despite the privatisation of the power sector, the challenges are still far from being over. What is your take on this? On November 1, 2013, the Federal Government privatised power generation and distribution to address the following challenges: end darkness by increasing generation, improve distribution facilities, and reduce government financial burden on power. While it is expected that the private investors will build more plants and improve distribution facilities, many years after, the situation has not changed. GENCOs and DISCOs continue to be huge financial burden to the government and ruthless exploiters of consumers. In 2015, we were told that the Federal Government bailed out the private investors in the power sector with a lifeline of N233 billion. It is also being proposed that the government is going to take over the burden of providing pre-paid meters from incompetent DISCOs at extra cost. Consumers have endured debilitating tariff hike – the DISCOs want tariff hike every six months. Consumers are being tormented with crazy fraudulent bills that have no bearing with electricity consumed. It is sad that five years into the power privatisation programme, none of the key targets have been achieved. The Federal Government, GENCOs, DISCOs and even gas suppliers are locked in an endless buck passing over the failure of the system. Government blamed DISCOs for abysmal supply of gas and the DISCOs blame government for failure to implement tariff increase every six months. We are in a situation where no one wants to accept blame for the failure of the privatisation scheme in the power sector. It is clear that the power sector privatisation failed because incompetent investors were engaged. It is sad that the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) appears soft on operators and hard on consumers. We call on the Federal Government now that the tenure of the DISCOs is due for renewal to review the entire privatisation and come up with the best approach to deal with this challenge. Assess the agricultural sector given the government’s focus on it? I want to commend the Federal Government and a number of state governments for showing commitment to the revamping of the agro-allied sector. A few weeks ago, Nigeria was rated as the largest rice producer in Africa with an annual rice turnover of four million metric tons upstaging Egypt which used to be Africa’s number one. We believe more can still be done. We call on the government to focus on improving the agriculture value chain, especially agro-processing. We must now make the critical transition from primary production to secondary and even tertiary levels of production. It all starts with adding real value to our agricultural products. By so doing, we would not only unlock huge potential for the creation of decent jobs, we would also be creating more wealth for our people and for government. I also commend the plans to recapitalise the Agricultural Development Bank. This is a good step, but the Federal Government should extend the recapitalisation to all existing development banks. In fact, it is important to create new ones to fill identifiable gaps.The recapitalised development banks should work with a network of commercial banks to secure loan facilities of adequate term structures and at reasonable interest rates.  We are convinced that the prevailing double-digit interest rates and the wide interest rates spread are inimical to industrial development and should be comprehensively addressed. How are you handling the contributory pensions deductions by employers? Incidence of unlawful and illegal withholding of contributory pension deductions from workers’ salaries and not remitting same to their Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) still abound. In Ogun State, deductions from workers’salaries were unjustly withheld for close to 105 months. It took the mobilisation of workers in Ogun State and beyond to make the state government to budge. We will never allow such unjust treatment of workers and infractions on their rights to linger that long. The unpleasant situations where workers retire from public service and are forced to wait for several months for their pension benefits to be processed still persist. The  non-payment of pensioners, especially by state governments continue to militate against the smooth operation of pension administration in our country. We call on all employers of labour and the three tiers of government to promptly remit all contributory pension deductions to workers’ PFAs. Some states are still owing salaries, pensions and gratuities? How are you handling the matter? Yes, some states still owe workers and pensioners salaries and pension in arrears. Some states owe pensioners many months of pension arrears, despite the bailout funds, budget support fund and the Paris debt refund. The inhumane treatment of pensioners has exposed many of our senior citizens to unnecessary hardship. Many of them have gone down with avoidable ailments and even died untimely while waiting for their pension allowances. This situation is deplorable and sends wrong signals to workers still in active service. Also, the public service is the engine of government policy articulation and the implementation of public programmes. Unfortunately, the public service in Nigeria is marked by low pay and huge salary disparity in the core civil service when compared to other MDAs. This needs to be addressed as it negates the ILO’s principles of equal pay for work of equal value. There are also the challenges of delay in the payment of promotion arrears, transfer allowance and other legitimate claims of workers and the dearth of working tools and conducive workspaces for workers. Also, of paramount concern to workers is the policy that discarded the tenure system for the top echelon in our civil service making the civil service top heavy and promoting career stagnation and indiscipline. We call on the government to ensure adequate and timely payment of salaries for public sector workers, especially those at the state and local governments. This would make the public service attractive to top talents and minimise the lure of official graft. The government should remedy the huge salary disparity in the core civil service compared to other MDAs. The government should reinstate the tenure policy in the civil service, stop the overly dependence on consultants and improve the work environment. What is your take on the government’s anti-corruption fight and fiscal discipline? I commend the commitment of the government to fighting official corruption. There is an increase in the number of public officials and their collaborators in the private sector who have been successfully prosecuted and convicted on charges of corruption. It is important for all Nigerians to see the fight against corruption as a collective battle, which must be fought in a transparent and holistic manner. Corrupt persons in and outside government must be dutifully tracked and diligently prosecuted. This requires a reformed judiciary. We also reiterate our demand for specialised courts to speed up the prosecution of all corruption cases. Corruption cases must be dispensed with in a specific period of time. I also see the huge severance payment and pension to political office holders as a form of corruption. It is even more disturbing when many of the recipients of these self-sponsored and self-benefiting allowances are governors who left office with piles of unpaid salaries, gratuity and pension liabilities. Furthermore, we demand that recovered looted funds must be transparently accounted for and utilised to revitalise the economy and attend to the welfare of citizens. What is your message for workers, government and other employers on the new national minimum wage? Our recent struggle for a new national minimum wage of N30,000 has been one of the most arduous and long drawn in both our history as a movement and in the annals of our country. This should not be so. Well, as it is said: “It is better late than never.” I salute all our comrades, especially our leaders at the state level who astutely discharged the burden of leadership by mobilising our workers during our different campaigns, rallies, protests and strike on the account of our demand for a new national minimum wage. It was their steadfast commitment and dedication to this struggle that won us victory. We acknowledge the efforts of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation for easing social dialogue between us and the government while this process lasted. I also applaud President Muhammadu Buhari for being a promise keeper. He promised to sign the minimum wage into law and even after securing a second term in office, kept true to his promise by assenting to the new national minimum wage bill. That was another demonstration of labour-friendliness by Mr. President. You will recall that it was President Buhari, who asked governors: “How do you sleep at night when you have not paid the salaries of workers?” I urge the government to quickly finalise salary adjustment across the payroll of civil and public servants. We have already wasted a lot of time arriving at the new national minimum wage, we should not waste a single more second implementing the new national minimum wage across board. I urge workers to remain vigilant till total victory is won. ILO celebrated 100 years. How would you assess its activities in the last 100 years? The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has come a long way – 100 years. We are not just celebrating 100 years as mere numbers. We are celebrating 100 years of global impact and quality service to working people. We are celebrating 100 years of consolidation on the convictions of the founders of the ILO, who arising from the ashes of the First World War, sought to build the consciousness that social justice is the only foundation for sustainable world peace. So strong was the commitment of ILO’s founders that by the time the United Nations (UN) was birthed in 1946, the ILO was the first specialised international agency associated with the UN. We cannot ignore the social progress that has been made, especially since the 1944 ILO Philadelphia declaration; the eight core Conventions of the ILO including the Conventions on Freedom of Association and Right to Organise, Collective Bargaining, Child and Forced Labour Conventions, and the ILO declaration on Social Justice for a fair globalisation in 2000 and the successful launch and sustenance of the Decent Work Agenda. Putting the hundred years of the ILO in perspective, the premier global labour institution can keep counting the many laurels on its cabinet. From an original membership of forty-four countries, ILO now has a membership base of one hundred and eighty-seven countries across the continents of the world. The ILO as the only tripartite agency of the UN has over the years remained unflinchingly committed to its mandate of setting the standards for industrial relations, technical cooperation to assist developing countries and systematic pursuit of research, education, and manpower development. Since 1919, the ILO has used its Conventions, Recommendations and Frameworks to push back aggressive advancement of industrial tyranny, social injustice and abuse of rights. The fruits of these commitments are self-evident not only across the globe but also in Nigeria. This year also marks 60 years of ILO in Nigeria and Africa. We shall join the ILO Area office in Abuja and the Regional Office in Abidjan to celebrate the dual anniversaries and will actively participate in all programmes lined up for these occasions in Addis Ababa, Abuja, Pretoria and Abidjan, including the 14th quadrennial African Regional meeting due in Cote d’Ivoire later in the year. There is indeed a lot to celebrate in the one hundred years of the ILO. As we celebrate the Centenary of the ILO and the institution of social dialogue, we call on the Federal Government to prevail on the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment to reactivate our own social dialogue mechanism via the functioning of the tripartite National Labour Advisory Council, which is the apex statutory body that advises on labour regimes and industrial relations in the country, under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment. It is unfortunate that since the current Minister of Labour and Employment assumed office, this important advisory body has never met. Organised Labour also wishes to use the occasion of the 100th Anniversary of the ILO to call on the current Chairman of ECOWAS, our own President Muhammadu Buhari, to use his good offices to capacitate the regional Social Dialogue Forum to function properly. The Forum was created by a supplementary protocol of ECOWAS Heads of State in 2011, when our former President Goodluck Jonathan served as Chairman of ECOWAS. Nigeria being the first country in Africa to host the ILO, must continue to give leadership to the rest of Africa and the sub region in this regard. As this administration is starting its second term, what other advice do you have for it? We are concerned with the increasing debt accumulation by governments at all levels. The Debt Management Office (DMO) disclosed that as at December 31, 2018, Nigeria’s debt burden stood at N24.387 trillion. A breakdown of the debt stock revealed that the Federal Government of Nigeria’s (FGN) external debt increased by 42.69 per cent, from N4.527 trillion in 2017 to N6.460 trillion in 2018. About two-thirds of the government’s revenue go into servicing interest payments, with the principal still waiting for redemption at maturity. Even the Central Bank of Nigeria, through the Monetary Policy Committee, recently cautioned the Federal Government against Nigeria’s rising debt level. The committee warned that except the Federal Government came up with measures to address the situation, Nigeria’s debt might rise up to the pre-2005 Paris Club level. Nigerians would recall that in October 2005, Nigeria and the Paris Club announced a final agreement for debt relief worth $18billion and an overall reduction of Nigeria’s debt stock by $30 billion. The deal was completed on April 21, 2006, when Nigeria made its final payment and its books were cleared of any Paris Club debt. Though there is nothing wrong in borrowing to invest in infrastructure with the capacity of enlarging the public revenue base, we want to caution the government to ensure that our debt profile does not get toxic and return Nigeria to another milieu of debt trap. Once bitten, we must be twice shy!