Two vocational centres have been opened at Akowonjo and Africa Church Primary Schools in Akowonjo, Lagos, courtesy of Jaiz Foundation. The idea of the vocational training for the pupils was muted by the Alimosho Local Government Area Chairman Jelili Sulaimon. The project was financed by Jaiz Foundation. Each of the centres has training equipment and instructors for shoe-making, barbing, hair-dressing and cloth sowing. The instructors are expected to train the pupils. At the inauguration of the centres, Sulaimon said the centre was the first of its kind in the schools. He thanked Jaiz Foundation for making his vision for the schools a reality. “As the pupils progress in their academic pursuits, whatever skill they have learnt will help them greatly while in higher schools to make money to support themselves. After they might have left the schools, the skills acquired will make them be self-reliant and make ends meet before they secure employment if need be,” he said. He promised that the vocational centres would be replicated in other schools in the council. This administration will not relent in making teaching and learning activities conducive and more comfortable for our teachers and pupils. Jaiz Foundation Chairman Alhaji Adamu Bello decried the alarming rate of out of school children in the country. One of the strategies to stem the tide, he said, is through the council chairman’s initiative. Represented by Director/Chief Executive Officer of the foundation, Imam Abdullahi Shuaib, Alhaji Bello said the initiative is new in the primary school education. He urged other schools’ administrators in the country to embrace it. “We have not found any local government that has started this initiative and we felt this is very laudable. So, we decided to partner with the council. As parents and employees, a very important reality you should know is that by the time you are retiring for whatever reasons or you are even no more, your children cannot inherit your employment. They can’t inherit your job but if you establish yourself, no matter how small, when you are no more, your children will inherit your business,” he said. He advised the parents to encourage their children to enrol for vocational training. “We should catch them young at the primary level, expose them to these skills. Let them acquire the skills and also monitor them. And also show keen interest because that will be the motivation for the children to learn. “By the time they start churning out their products, as parents, we would wish that we have done this many years ago. That is why we are saying to parents that let us encourage the and also be part of the scheme for the benefit of our children and for our own benefit,” he added. The Oba of Shasha, Oba Babatunde Ogunronbi, described the initiative as commendable. “It is a good thing to be educated and also into entrepreneurship.  It was after the secondary school that I learned how to make soap. That’s why you can’t see me bathing with all these medicated soap or something like that. I made the soap I use myself. If they can teach these children at this tender age, it’s going to be an advantage for them by the time they get out of the primary school to the secondary and to the tertiary to start earning something for themselves,” Oba Ogunronbi said.