The intending pilgrims under the Lagos State Government could not hide their joy on Wednesday following the announcement of refunds of N315 million by the state government. At a seminar organised for the pilgrims at the Blue Roof, LTV, Agidingbi, Ikeja, on Wednesday, the Amirul Hajj, Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, announced that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has approved the refund of N141,000 to each of the 2,234 pilgrims. The announcement was greeted with “Allahu Akbar! and Sanwo-Eko!” among others from the pilgrims. According to Dr AbdulLateef, the governor is interested in the pilgrims’ happiness and welfare, hence the decision. The former Commissioner for Home Affairs said: “The National Hajj Commission (NAHCON) has asked state boards to refund N51,000 to each pilgrim. NAHCON took the decision following the outcries against the high rate of Hajj fee. We commend the NAHCON for ensuring that the price of hajj is brought down. But Lagos State, being a Centre of Excellence, has set another milestone for other states to emulate by further reduction of additional N90,000. We’ll be returning N141,000 instead of the sum of N51,000 to all our pilgrims who paid N1.4million. This can only be done by a government that has the interest of its citizens at heart and this is what Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has done. “The governor has given us the mandate of ensuring that the welfare of the pilgrims is safeguarded including their health and security within and outside the country. This is what we have taken on board.” The first batch of pilgrims would leave on July 10. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Mrs Folasade Jaji, said the state pilgrims welfare board has made name for herself among for herself amongst the committee of pilgrims boards across the nation. “It has over the years become a point of reference in the organisation of pilgrimage and welfare of pilgrims,” Sanwo-Olu said. He hailed the leadership of the Home Affairs ministry and members of the board “for the marvellous job they have been doing over the years and for organising this pilgrimage seminar as a platform that will afford us the opportunity of discussing relevant issues, exchanging ideas and offering prayers to Allah for a successful journey to and from the Holy land.” He advised the pilgrims to obey the laws of Saudi Arabia, be orderly and avoid negative tendencies capable of tarnishing the good image of the state and the nation. Chief Imam of Lagos State Sheikh Sulaimon Abou-Nolla advised the pilgrims to be patient and obey the instructions of the boards’ officials in Saudi Arabia. “When you are going to a foreign land, you need a lot of knowledge about that country so as not to run foul of their laws. The pilgrims have to be law-abiding and follow the rules and regulations guiding hajj rites,” Sheikh Abou-Nolla said. Also yesterday, the State Government inaugurated the Adhoc Committee for the this year’s Hajj Pilgrimage with a charge to the members to ensure that the state sustains its enviable position as the best in the country. Deputy Governor Dr Kadiri Hamzat, who inaugurated the committee, urged the members to see to the welfare and safety of the 2,234 pilgrims and also ensure that the entire pilgrimage process is performed peacefully. He said they should consider the assignment as a serious job involving issues of welfare, safety and the array of logistics involved from Lagos to Mecca and back to the country. “You are to ensure the comfort of the pilgrims, transportation to and within the Holy Land, accommodation and feeding of the pilgrims are taken care of. Your duties as a committee commence from Nigeria till their return and end at the tendering of report and recommendation for improvement,” the deputy governor said. Earlier, Ministry of Home Affairs Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Adebunmi Adekanye, said as part of the efforts to ensure an hitch-free hajj operation, the state Muslim Pilgrim Welfare Board had organised series of activities which include seminar, talks, sensitisation, medical test amongst other exercises to prepare the pilgrims for the spiritual exercises. The event was witnessed by the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Yetunde Odejayi, and Secretary of the pilgrims’ Board Mr. Raman Ishola amongst others.