But for his death, Chief David Opeyemi Adetunmbi, a renowned teacher and community leader, would have clocked 100 years this year. In celebrating the posthumous centenary of his birth, his son, Seye Adetunmbi writes on his life and time. Chief David Opeyemi Adetunmbi attended the national congress of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) in Port Harcourt as the head of delegates of the old Ondo-State. The position of 1st Vice-President was zoned to the Western Nigeria and the two candidates from Oyo and Ogun could not agree. There was crisis at the national convention; he intervened in his usual leadership character. He appealed to the warring contestants and advised them on how imperative for them to be able to reach a common understanding, after all they were fellow Yoruba brothers and he quietly went back to his seat. Thereafter, the delegates said that the “apostle of harmony” who resolved the differences was the person they wanted to occupy the leadership position. After several persuasions he humbly accepted their request and was elected the 1st National Vice-President of NUT in 1976. Also after executing a project for the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Benin-Owena River Basing Development Authority at the instance of his community, his payment was protracted which involved travelling from Ekiti to Benin-City several times. The project brought him more headaches than gain; when the balance due to him was paid, it came with an over-payment. Naturally, he returned the excess of an over payment to the purse of Federal Government of Nigeria. The accountant said to him: “Baba why didn’t you go home with your cheque? “I won’t be able to sleep”; Baba responded. After the Benin-Owena River Basin Authority official got to know that the old man who returned the cheque was an Ekiti man, he said; “no wonder”. Ekiti Anglican Diocese saw him as someone who did the nation and indeed Ekiti people proud for his rare exhibition of honesty. It was a special commendation, with gifts of one Holy Bible and a wrist watch from Ekiti Diocese at the synod held in Aisegba-Ekiti in 1981 which was presented to him by the then Diocesan, Most Reverend Joseph Abiodun Adetiloye. His virtues were extolled as honesty and integrity personified. To him, his action was the norm; though considered unusual in an environment where the custodians of the national treasury are the ones stealing from the commonwealth with impunity and get away with it because no proper records are kept in a terribly corrupt system. This is about a man who stood out by doing the simplest things which anybody could achieve if only the person applies his/her mind to it conscientiously. When someone we love becomes a memory, the memory becomes a treasure. Certainly, Chief David Opeyemi Adetunmbi a.k.a. Baba; left behind treasures for his family, honourable associates, colleagues and other ranks of loved ones. Apparently, Chief D.O. Adetunmbi (DOA) sought to please God in the conduct of his life by doing well before man and God through the grace of His lord and Saviour. His major tool for achieving this was grounded in the guided principles of a good sense of justice and expression of love to those he came across with an arresting humility. “Mo ri o i yo” (delighted seeing you) was his signature greeting in Ekiti dialect with an infectious deep sincere smile. The state of Baba in his elements often warmed the soul of the encountered person such that one may have no choice than to melt on the inside. That was vintage and venerable him for you. His lifetime was a kind of golden moments of an unending story. His transition then, hurt his loved ones understandably because they wanted to enjoy his presence with them for as long as possible. Indeed his memory had turned out to evoke joys for his children and many who appreciated him. This is consequent to the buried seed of awesomeness of his exemplary character covered with freshly turned earth in 1990 which had sprung up luxuriant vegetation that is boisterous, to God is the glory. Certainly, no matter the odds, it pays to serve God, for truth always triumphs. Chief David Opeyemi Adetunmbi was a native of Ifaki-Ekiti and was born on July 12, 1919. He lost his mother as a toddler and was brought up by his grandmother. His father was one of the early persecuted Christians in Ifaki-Ekiti. He was baptized at St. Michael Anglican Church Ifaki-Ekiti on the 8th of March 1931. He had his primary education at St Michael’s Anglican Infantry School, Ifaki-Ekiti in 1931 to 1935 and was among the early set of Christ’s School, Ado-Ekiti in 1936 to 1937. The chief attended Ondo Boys High School, Ondo in 1944 to 1945 and through correspondence, he passed Cambridge School Certificate. He obtained Diploma in Education from University of Ibadan in 1960. DOA started his working career as a pupil teacher in 1937 at Igbara Odo-Ekiti. He later worked at Ilorin, Offa and became Headmaster of Central Primary School, Oke-Opin in 1954. He was one of the pioneer teachers of Ekiti Parapo College, Ido-Ekiti in 1955. On invitation of his kinsmen, he co-started Ifaki Grammar School where he served meritoriously from 1957 to 1975 as the Senior Tutor. He retired at All Saints Teachers College, Usi-Ekiti in 1979 as a Head of Department. Activities of Chief Adetunmbi as a keen church man included being a member of the old Ondo Anglican Diocesan Synod. He served in the old Ekiti Archdeaconry under Archdeacon M. A. Osanyin who was later consecrated as the first Bishop of Ekiti Anglican Diocese. He worked with other notable laity for the establishment of Ekiti Anglican Diocese in 1966. The sole internal auditor for the old Ekiti Anglican Diocese for about 15 years in gratis, going round the churches where there were problems on church finances and other irregularities in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. He served as a Bishop’s nominee to the Ekiti Anglican Diocesan Synod until his transition. The Baba Ijo of St. Michael’s Anglican Church, Ifaki-Ekiti, 1978 to 1990 and choirmaster/organist free-of-charge of St. Michael’s Anglican Church, Ifaki from early 1960s till his transition in March 1990. He joined Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) in 1942 and 2557 was his registration number. He served as a member of the Executive Council of NUT of the old Western State of Nigeria in 1971. He rose to become a national leader of the respected union and acted as the National President of NUT, in 1978 to 1979. He represented Nigeria in December 1978 at the International Federation of Free-Teachers Union, 12th World Congress held in Manila, Philippines. His tenure as the leader of NUT was yet to be completed when he retired as a teacher in 1979. He called the attention of his NUT colleagues to it at an executive council meeting that the constitution says it is only a teacher still in service that can occupy the office of the president. His co-unionists venerated him. He served as a councillor in the old Ifaki/Ido/Osi District Council in the 1960s and elected chairman of Ifaki Town Council on the 15th of May, 1970. Chief Adetunmbi worked relentlessly with others to attract social amenities and development to the community which include post office, electricity, pipe borne water, police post, Ifaki Grammar School, and Ifaki General Hospital etc. He was installed the Asiwaju of Ifaki-Ekiti on the 13th of April 1974, by the suave and respected Olufaki of Ifaki, His Royal Highness, Oba Josiah Ojo Akanle III. The renowned school administrator and educationist served on the board of governors of many institutions as either chairman or treasurer. Some of these schools include Divisional Teacher Training College, Oye-Ekiti; All Saints Teacher Training College, Usi-Ekiti etc. He authored a detailed and well researched historical and documentary book titled, Typical Yoruba Community: Ifaki-Ekiti. Baba got married on August 10, 1952 to Miss Comfort Modupe Adelusi a.k.a. Mama. Baba and Mama kept faith with the holy matrimony until death did part them and the marriage was blessed with children. Chief D.O. Adetunmbi was a disciplinarian, a devoted family man, a very generous character and outstandingly upright. He was a lover of concord, a votary of peace, an advocate of truth and an apostle of harmony in every human endeavour. He appreciated his root and served his community selflessly and in turn his people revered him. He worshiped God through Christ with every means at his disposal and earned unequivocally the exalted position of a highly respected opinion leader in his domain. Baba was a front-line subsistence farmer. He loved organ music, it was his forte while photography was a hobby and enjoyed pounded yam with his favourite bush meat etu (antelope), akika (porcupine) and okuru (grass cutter). He enjoyed company of his people and honourable men generally. During 1989 Christmas holiday, I asked him how far he had gone with the historical book he was writing on Ifaki community. In response, he said: “After all, if I couldn’t finish it, you (Seye) will complete it for me…” Three months after, on the 21st of March 1990, my beloved father passed-on.  On March 20th 1990, he left choir practice around 6 pm, played his 1917 pedal organ at home till after 10 p.m. and passed on at about 2.30 a.m. of March 21st, 1990. “Such is a Christian parting hour, so peacefully, he rested in the lord”. At the time of his transition, he was survived by his wife, Chief Mrs C.M. Adetunmbi (1931-2017), the Iya-Ijo of St. Michael’s Anglican Church, Ifaki and his children: Chief Kayode Adetunmbi, Mrs Yetunde Makinde, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi, Engineer Adedayo Adetunmbi, Mrs Adenike Ogunyemi, Okan Oluseye Adetunmbi and Mrs Abimbola Afolabi with many grandchildren. Posthumous awards received included 1991 Ekiti Anglican Diocesan Merit Award and Ekiti State 2004 Merit Award. Subsequent to editing, updating with relevant vintage pictures and structuring the manuscript of his research work appropriately, in line with the way he would have wanted it done, I got the book published 28 years after his transition. It had been rather unsettling for me each time the project came to my consciousness all these years until I saw through the assignment he gave me. Consequent to seeing the depth of his research, his uncommon sense of record keeping and the huge materials he had been gathering since 1961 till 1990: digging deep into facts of history, geography, culture and tradition of his community, I was inspired to write the biography of the man with such a foresight and deep sense of selflessness. It was published as a separate book for posterity. Bulk of the two pictorial historical books that were initially produced has been donated to the libraries of Nigerian Universities and secondary schools. To facilitate access of more people to his research work and his inspiring published biography, the two books are now available online to mark the centenary of his birth and to the glory God.