In their bid to build entreprenuership and check unemployment, Lafarge Africa, in collaboration with Cuso International, has provided grants worth N10 million and starter packs to 50 youths in their host communities in Cross River State. Beneficiaries who came from Akamkpa, Akpabuyo, Calabar Municipality and Calabar South local government areas were supported to set up businesses in fishery, poultry, oil palm processing, renewable energy and cassava processing. Plant Manager of Lafarge Africa, Mr David Brown, said having recognized Cuso’s outstanding role in youth empowerment in the natural resource sector in the state, they entered the partnership because as an organization, they recognize host communities as partners. Brown said they believed in building together with their host communities for the future, while ensuring they leave positive footprints that will build skills, improve livelihood and impact the society. He congratulated the 50 successful beneficiaries, consisting of 32 females and 18 males, who were made it out of an initial number of 200. The Plant Manager assured the communities of their long term commitment to invest in them. “Lafarge Africa’s commitment to the development of our local communities is unwavering. We therefore ask for the continued support and understanding of all our stakeholders to enable us achieve set goals,” Brown said. Country representative, Cuso International, Ebrima Sonko, said the partnership with Lafarge Africa was an offshoot of their YouLead programme, a 15 million dollar project that CUSO is doing is Cross River State to address youth unemployment. He said they supported youths in the state to own their own business, and so far over 3, 000 jobs have been created under the YouLead programme. Sonko said the programme dovetailed with the intention of Lafarge to help the host communities, describing the partnership as a good one. Beneficiaries of the programme, who lauded the organizations for the gesture, said it would improve their lives and their communities, as well as help to curb youth restiveness in the state. They appreciated that the host communities were involved in the entire process of the programme. They promised to be committed to the entrepreneurship programme and ensure the positive multiplier effects are felt in their various communities.  