ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately. Thanksfully, President Muhammadu Buhari has finally named his ministers. The delay is a bad administrative lapse and a poor example for governance at a time of war. Of course you have to choose between bad and very bad people, honour is not a priority for political appointments around here, and not many presidents are empowered or bold enough to choose the ones they want. This arrangement is said to ensure ethnic and ‘political clout’ and ‘who won the election’ balancing, and ‘compensation for compromise or contribution or loss. You are not innocent as sometimes you have neglected ethnic balancing in appointments? As president, I would also wish to freely appoint ‘my team’. All presidents must however make quick decisive decisions about key appointments within the first few days in office. It demonstrates they mean business as they need the ministers, aka servants, to be the presidential hands and legs and eyes both in implementation and in monitoring and evaluation. Presidents can always reverse such decisions and replace ministers at will as they are not tenured civil servants. Ministers usually sign an undated ‘Ministerial Resignation Letter’ to keep them in line and for the day of ‘Presidential Displeasure’. Ask Donald Trump, Theresa May and Olusegun Obasanjo. Already Nigerians have waited too long as they suffer maximum insecurity nationwide. Imagine the senate ‘being forced’ or ‘given opportunity’ to give a deadline on ministerial list submission as ‘five days’. Altruistic or patriotic or do they want to go on two months vacation with their first salary and allowances and first cars. Meanwhile Nigeria’s suffering citizens, our insulted and physically abused pensioners, went through another agony last week enduring yet another verification exercise from their employed children. Computers were invented 50 years ago, o! All Nigerians have been captured, face and fingerprints and perhaps toe prints for driving license, voters’ card, TIN, BVN, passport, at offices of employment and by pension offices nationwide. Every day our civil servants travel the world learning latest IT techniques. Has nobody heard of ‘cross referencing’ IT databases? As long as every agency seeks to do its own thing for personal gain, for that long will we march and not move. Nigeria is at war. We cannot wait for six months for ministers like in your first term when we thought you were saving us money. Wrong. In governance often speed is far more important as a signal than getting it right every time. Unfortunately you are keeping some ministers against advice to pick a completely new team from the professional brilliance overflowing, and so underutilized, in Nigeria. If so, send the ‘sure banker returnees’ and even the tentative not-so-sure list. You can always change them by using ‘tweeting destroying’ style or going to their houses for lunch and sacking them on TV. Be reminded that you have only 43 months. Enough is enough. Begin to go quickly or we will remain in the dark ages. Already another 20 killed in Sokoto, senior army officers and soldiers killed. Mr President, you may be shielded from the truth or covering your eyes and ears but we are in a war situation. Different analysts blame the nearly nationwide panic, mayhem and murders now 10,000+ and maybe up to five million Internally Displaced Persons on different causes. Some say ‘foreign bandits’, ‘foreign terrorists’ and even ‘foreign Fulani herdsmen’. When ‘foreigners’ run rampage across 2/3s of any nation, the ‘foreigners’ whether ‘invited’ or not, whether ‘politically motivated’ or not, whether nurtured for ‘elections gone wrong’ or not, whether sent ‘to seize farmlands from rightful owners ‘or not, whether to ‘slash and burn villages and towns and cities’ or not, equal ‘war’ by any definition. If you are one of the 10,000+ dead, you do not care about foreigner or mercenary or local bandit. It is your loved ones, burdened by grief and impotence to seek and get justice and unable to return home safely or get compensation rapidly affecting millions. What compensation is there offered for a life taken wickedly while knowing that the security outfit and the political apparatus will only report the next day, after your blood has dried into the ground? Nigeria has lost many gallant military personnel since this ‘Undeclared war on Nigeria’ by ‘internal and external forces’. Strangely it took the death of a prominent person for the armed forces to be called out to garrison the roads to protect us even temporarily from a similar fate? These warmongers have killed thousands of unarmed travellers and farmers, unhindered with bombs, machine guns and guerilla tactics- all weapons of war. They even returned to Chibok and killed. Now they have killed a Colonel; will we get an admission of a ‘Declaration of War against Nigeria’. What arrogance and what irresponsibility on Nigeria’s part to fail to protect the people who have lost so much-their children- Our Chibok Girls and Leah? We need below-the-radar forest commandos and must garrison hotspots and surrounding areas with encirclement to cut off escape routes with no advanced press announcements to allow the enemy change location. Unashamed and irrationally, we are still stealing from pipelines and no security outfit can prevent a catastrophe at Ijegun, Lagos State. Jesse’s 1,000 were roasted to death. How many between then and today?