The vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, on a visit to Anambra State recently, called for a new beginning in the relationship between the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the people of the Southeast. This column on many occasions, called for that rapprochement, arguing that the Southeast has no reason to put all her eggs in one weak basket, placed on the unbalanced head of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), whose legs have been wobbling since 2015. In his remarks, published by his media aide, Laolu Akande, the vice president reminded south-easterners that President Muhammadu Buhari on two occasions he ran for the presidency, had as vice-presidential candidates, two eminent Igbo sons. One was Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, and the other was Chief Edwin Ume-Ezeoke, and both of them were no minnows in politics.  So, when PDP agents say that historically President Muhammadu Buhari hates the Igbos, I wonder where they get their facts. The vice president also reeled out projects that the Buhari presidency has undertaken in the south-east, to include the on-going second Niger Bridge, completed Zik Mausoleum, Onitsha-Enugu expressway rehabilitation, electrification project at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, and of course the social investment programmes very dear to the vice president’s heart. While the Southeast deserves more projects, this column commends those projects as potentials, a détente between the zone and the Buhari presidency could generate. The vice president also noted that Anambra State is one of the seven states that have two ministerial nominees. While the state has always had that privilege, perhaps because of her per capita contribution to the party, it is noteworthy that under the Buhari government, the special favour is maintained. Of course, the returning minister and former Governor Chris Ngige, is a juggernaut in the party. Going forward, what Igbo elites should do, is to work for the interest of the region in any party they are in, while not negating the overall interest of Nigeria. For instance, they should take a stand on the boiling issue of insecurity in the country, and push for amendment of the constitution to allow for state and local police authorities. While opponents of the ruling party are entitled to disagree with the party, it is retrogressive to associate membership of APC with sabotaging of the region’s interest. After all, the PDP government could not gift Nigeria any significant restructuring, while in power for 16 years. So, it is untenable to give the impression that APC’s inability to address the problem is because a Buhari who has an axe to grind with the Igbos is in power. Therefore, since the faulty national security structure predates Buhari, a bipartisan approach would be more productive that smear campaigns. While Buhari’s opponents can claim that insecurity has arguably worsened or has created a dangerous mutant under his watch, the solution would only come under a bipartisan approach to the challenges. So, instead of the Igbo elites wasting energy demonising their kit and kin who feel comfortable in the APC government, they should concentrate their energy in finding solution to the hydra-headed problems bedevilling the nation. As I have said, the fundamental challenges can only be solved via a bipartisan approach. So, abuse qua abuse, will not lead to the Promised Land, which the country badly needs to stave a total breakdown of law and order. With former Governor Rotimi Amaechi returning hopefully to the Ministry of Transportation, the new beginning should include, adding the Southeast to the Northeast railway, in the federal government’s railway modernisation programme. Cutting a deal on that major infrastructure project can only come via a deft rapprochement with the central government. The leaders of Southeast in government must therefore wake up and make hay while the sun shines. It is not fair to take the benefits due to leaders of the party in the zone, but fail to work to build the party in the zone and ensure the people benefit from the government. Luckily, the constitution ensures every state has a minister. The occupier of that coveted position must use the visibility conferred by it, to grow the party and ensure what is due to the state gets to it. In some states, there were protests over the re-nomination of former ministers. My home State Enugu, was one of them. The state chairman of the party protested that the party was not consulted before Geoffrey Onyeama was re-nominated for the new federal cabinet. While the president could choose not to consult with the party in making his choice, the chosen one owes a duty to nurture the party, as a representative in the cabinet. Even when the president is doing his final term in office, it is in his interest the party is sustained and if possible returned to power, if the legacies of the president is to be sustained. So, the survival of the party is as much in the interest of an outgoing president, as it is in the interest of a budding successor. Unfortunately, the drawback caused by the absence of cohesion amongst party officials in southeast states, is made worse by the failure of their representatives to use their visibility to promote the party. For instance, this writer severally called upon former Governor Rochas OKorocha to use his position as the only APC governor to build the party in the zone, but he squandered the opportunity. Now he is running from pillar to post, with neither party nor the people supporting him, as Governor Emeka Ihedioha is turning him and his family into an endangered specie in the state. While as Imo State governor, Okorocha was beclouded by an ill-mannered determination to foist his son-in-law on the state at all cost. As happens in such silly endeavours, he is left to lick his wounds, alone. One project that should also form a cornerstone of the new beginning, preached by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is the upgrading of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport to full international status. Recently, the federal aviation authority reeled out the airports they are working on their landing instruments, and no mention was made of the only international airport in the Southeast. If Buhari’s government wants a cohesive country, it must disregard partisan detractors and ensure a fair distribution of national resources across the geo-political zones. Perhaps, it is good the immediate past Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, is returning to government, most likely his former ministry. The action governor of Enugu State, Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, must ensure a good working relationship with whoever emerges as Minister of Aviation, to contribute his quota for the Enugu airport to be upgraded to full international status by the federal government within the next four years.