Mr. Ayo Owolabi, father of Channels reporter, Precious Owolabi, killed by stray bullet during the Shi’ites, police confrontation last Monday has demanded for probe of Garki Hospital over alleged poor handling of the emergency. He wondered why the doctor who was supposed to perform surgery on the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member was nowhere to be found after he was initially stabilised. He spoke on Sunday during a condolence visit to the family by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in Kaduna The Vice President was accompanied by Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, Director-General National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General Ibrahim Shuaibu, top security chiefs and traditional leaders to the family. Owolabi said: “There is nothing anyone can do in a situation like this. One has to take it as one of those challenges of life. I felt pained. “The only thing that made me sad outside the event was that, when I learnt about what happened immediately after he was shot. “He was taken to the first hospital where they said they could not handle his case and was referred to Garki hospital where he was attended to and was stabilised. “But the doctor, who was supposed to do surgery on him, was far away. Possibly if he was available, the boy’s life would have been saved and that would have saved us from this agony we found ourselves in for the past one week. “I would have loved to find out why the doctor was not around. And what step has the management of that hospital taken on that doctor’s action. “I saw the boy in a video sitting down, holding his tommy and bleeding. But the doctor to do the surgery was nowhere to be found.” Precious Owolabi was a member of the NYSC serving with the Channels Television. Osinbajo however engaged the family in a tete-a-tete during which he described the death as great loss to the nation and a national tragedy that would never be forgotten in history. Addressing newsmen shortly after the visit, DG of NYSC, Brigadier General Ibrahim Shuaibu described Precious’ demise as a big loss to NYSC family. According to him: “Last week Monday was a very sad day for the NYSC family. The coming of the vice president to represent the president speaks volume of how important the welfare of Corps members is to the federal government. “We have learnt our lesson with regards to safety of our esteem members. Precious Owolabi was a hero because he died in active service.” 