The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) have agreed to collaborate in combating crime in the capital market and ensure those suspicious transactions are eradicated. Ag. Director-General, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, who spoke in Abuja during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the NFIU, said the collaboration was necessary in order to close ranks in the face of insider dealings, re-awakening of Ponzi schemes, cybercrime and other fraudulent activities that have engulfed the market in the last few years. Ms. Uduk said the Commission is paying close attention to digital transactions and was in the process of amending its rules to capture such transactions. She said the Commission already has regulations that prohibits shell companies from operating in the capital market and implored the NFIU to assist with solutions to track suspicious transactions as they occur. “If we have solutions that will help us track transactions, it will reduce incidence of insider dealing greatly. We would be very willing to collaborate with you on that in our determination to ensure that our markets are efficient and transparent and all investors are protected,” Uduk said. In his remarks, Director of NFIU, Modibbo Tukur, commended the SEC for the relationship that has existed between both organisations and assured that the NFIU will continue to play its part in ensuring that the financial system is safe for Nigerians to operate. To this end, Tukur said the NFIU is making efforts to ensure that the financial system is rid of shell companies adding that for companies to exist, they should have physical addresses. “If anyone establishes a company, it has to be a company indeed and we have to be firm on this. This has become more important now given the roll out of the ECOWAS single currency, because with that, we know that capital and investments will move across borders and it is a single currency. So we have to step Tukur stated that by the time the NFIU commences the due diligence on the shell companies, the information will be shared with the SEC for their further action. “Analysis would now be digital so the organisation would be able to share information on transactions as fast as possible; the capital market being a very sensitive one, care has to be taken on information dissemination to avoid disruptions,” he added.