Speakers at the first sickle cell management summit have called for the enactment of the Sickle Cell Disease (Prevention, Control and Management) Bill. They also called for fair labour practices, reports JOSEPH JIBUEZE. Legal experts and stakeholders have called for the enforcement of rights of those living with sickle cell disorder. They also want an end to workplace discrimination against them. Speakers at the first Sickle Cell Summit, which held in Abuja, urged the government to do more to protect those living with the condition. Its theme was: Achieving a sustainable policy for the management of sickle cell disorder in Nigeria: challenges and prospects. It was organised by TonyMay Foundation Sickle Cell Aid in partnership with Crimson Bow Sickle Cell Initiative, Sickle Cell Aid Foundation and Dr. Sickle Cell. Tonymay Foundation is chaired by a lawyer, Chief Andrew Otokhina, who lost two of his children to sickle cell anaemia within six months. His first son Anthony, a graduate, died on the eve of his 29th birthday. His daughter Mary died barely six months later –  a week to her resumption at the Nigerian Law School in Abuja. At the event were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), represented by Dr. Nicholas Audiferren and the Educational and Cultural Affairs Officer at the United States Embassy, Abuja, Sterling Tilley. The keynote speaker, Prof. Iheanyi Okpala, called for the passage of the Sickle Cell Disease (Prevention, Control and Management) Bill. He said the bill, when passed into law, will provide for funding for comprehensive sickle cell programmes, research and NGO support towards reducing the burden. He added that the law would provide for a small percentage of company tax to support the management of sickle cell disorder in Nigeria, while there should be a national database of people living with the disorder. Besides, Okpala said there is the need for the government to implement the existing Sickle Cell policies. A labour law expert, Daniel Onwe, suggested that since sickle disorder is considered a disability, those living with it should join the mainstream disability community so their voices can be heard. During a session entitled: Encouraging an inclusive policy for people living with Sickle Cell Disorder in the work place, speakers noted the fact that the Fourth Amendment of the 1999 Constitution requires the court to address issues of unfair labour laws, including discrimination against people living with sickle cell disorder in the workplace. They called for better implementation of the law to protect the rights of people living the disorder. Participants shared experiences of how they almost got relieved of her jobs due to conditions. Onwe said those living with sickle cell must stand up for their rights, including enforcing them in court. During the session on Strengthening the relationship between the patient and the health care worker: a healing therapy, the guest speaker, Donna Mc Curry, noted that compassionate care and competence can save lives. According to her, healthcare practitioners need to realise that people living with the disorder go through physical pain with an attendant psycho-social effect on them. She said it is necessary for healthcare workers to have closer relationship with their patients to prevent depression or substance abuse. Speakers acknowledged that there is a consistent lack of compassion by healthcare workers in Nigeria, adding that there is urgent need to address it through adequate training. They emphasised the need for healthcare workers to refrain from labelling those living with sickle cell disorder as “drug addicts” but to help rehabilitate those who abuse medications. Resolutions It was noted that most organisations silently marginalise or deny people living with sickle cell disorder job opportunities. Participants resolved that people living with sickle cell disorder should be considered under special cases in their workplace. It was recommended that they should be allowed to work from home as technology has made life easier, and that employers should be trained to know that people living with sickle cell disorder can be valuable assets. It was further resolved that people with the disorder should be given sick leave as often as possible. Those whose rights are violated were urged to seek legal remedies, through human rights lawyers and relevant government departments, such as the Lagos State Ministry of Justice, which is said to have expressed willingness to take up such cases. Speakers recommended that an online forum be set up for people living with sickle cell disorder in Nigeria so that “warriors” (those with the disorder but doing great in their various endeavors) can mentor others and to give them a voice. Speakers agreed that funding is a major issue in the management of sickle cell disorder and that non-governmental organisations must speak with one voice in demanding funds for its management in the national budget. It was resolved that there is the need for improvement in treatment and that health care workers and the public should be educated about the existing sickle cell policies. Speakers advocated the establishment of more sickle cell disorder centres in every state.