Seven corps members of the 2018 National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Nasarawa State, are to repeat their service for absconding from their Places of Primary Assignment (PPA), during the service year. Hajiya Ramatu Sanda, NYSC Coordinator in the state, made this known in Lafia on Thursday, while briefing newsmen shortly after a low-key Passing out Parade (POP), for the 2018 Batch “B” Stream II corps members. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the NYSC in the state supervised the passing out in Lafia and other local government areas of the state. Sanda said the affected seven corps members would be remobilised for a new service year, while three others would face various periods of extensions for different offences committed during the service year which contravened the NYSC bye-laws. She added that the punishments would take effect after final ratification by the Nasarawa State NYSC Governing Board. “Some corps members erred during the service year. We have seven corps members who totally absconded from service. “Others left their places of primary assignment without permission among other offences. “For those who absconded, they will be remobilised for a new service year. The extension of the other three will depend on the gravity of their misconducts,’’ she said. The coordinator said the decision to punish the erring corps members was based on the recommendation of the state NYSC Disciplinary Committee. “We have a committee on corps discipline, comprising all Assistant Directors and all heads of branches in the secretariat. “This body looks into the cases and invites the corps members concerned to defend themselves. “At the end, a decision is taken, strictly in accordance with our laws but the decision takes effect after the NYSC governing board has ratified it,’’ Sanda said. The coordinator advised the corps members who were passing out to take advantage of the skills they acquired during their service year for self-employment. She urged them to take advantage of the skill acquisition training to support themselves pending when a government job would come. “It is important that they engage themselves with the training they got during the service year to sustain themselves, instead of relying on their parents or waiting for white collar jobs. Sanda thanked the state government for supporting NYSC and revealed that 10 of the corps members that were passing out would be given awards for their exemplary service during the year. The NYSC coordinator added that this would also need ratification from the NYSC governing board in the state. (NAN)