SIR: The Value Added Tax (VAT) exemption on equity transaction was granted by federal government in July 2014 for five years during President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration. It covered brokerage commission and transactions fee charged by Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Central Security Clearing System (CSCS). The exemption was for five years and following the expiration of the exemption, the NSE notified stockbrokers that effective  Thursday July 25, , 5% VAT would now be charged. We appeal that federal government rescind this harsh policy as this will amount to multiple taxation to shareholders, even if the market is bullish. A 5% VAT means an investor who wants to invest N100m in equity will have to pay N5m as VAT, this is too high. Equity investment is not a commodity to sell like cement, but an investment in which the returns cannot be predicted. Sometimes it could go negative (hence total commission charged VAT inclusive should not exceed 1.7% of buying purse). Is this the amount other developing countries collect, compared to the participation of the citizens in equity business? For Nigeria, less than five million citizens do equity business which is about 2.5% of her population, which is rather low, compared to about 10-15% participation in most developed nations. The federal government already collects 30% corporate tax from companies, another 10% withholding tax from dividend and for every share purchased 1.8% fee is collected, every share sold another 2% fee is collected (NSE is already working to reduce this as it is still too high), then federal government is adding another 5% VAT. Just last year in the U.S, the corporate tax was reduced from 30% to 10% by the U.S government and this has caused a boom in the U.S stock market. Why can’t we emulate this noble idea? Since investment in the equity market is business and not charity, how much is the investor going to make from capital appreciation, if federal government collects 8.8%( 5%VAT +1.8%+2% NSE charges) from shareholders, added to interest rate from bank loans about 25% per annum (as most large stock transactions are financed with bank loans) and 11% annual inflation rate. Our policy makers should always consult widely; they should first understudy other developing countries, like Kenya, South Africa, Ghana, Malaysia, India, Indonesia etc.   before enacting any economic policy. This VAT idea is unviable; it will further drive investors away from the already deserted and bearish market which is already 20% negative this year.