The General Manager of Lagos State Urban Renewal Agency (LASURA) spoke with OLATUNJI OLOLADE on government’s plan to adopt public-private partnership to save Adeniji Adele estates from further deterioration. What has LASURA done to mitigate the persistent flooding of the Adeniji Adele estates? We are trying to use the PPP approach for that project. We are trying to create an incentive for private people to invest with the government to develop that site (Adeniji Adele) and not only that site. That’s our strategy for developing most of our slum areas. Investments of that magnitude takes time and resources. We are talking about $800 million (about N288 billion). What is the quality of response from private investors? The response of the private business sector has been encouraging. They are trying to get their financial analysis together and submit to us. The company is ATO/ Integral. We as government will put in the stimulus money and provide an enabling environment for the PPP to succeed. Government cannot do all. We are also trying to introduce government’s ability to participate fully in such efforts via the Tax Increment Financing (TIF). It has not been adopted yet, but we are in the process of getting it adopted by the Lagos State government. What is the gestation period of the project? Once the financial analysis is done and submitted to the PPP office and it has been analysed and accepted, we will negotiate with the developer in terms of what they want and what the government wants. Once this is sorted, that is when the process of development starts. And then we probably have to do it in phases based on what we agreed on. The development is a very, very big project and it is probably one of the most important government projects. You know, our development pattern is irregular and we have many substandard development projects in our communities; so it’s going to take a lot of social re-engineering and reorientation of the minds of the people to identify with our new initiative. How does LASURA intend to resolve the challenges posed by space constraints? By going vertical. Because we have a very small amount of land area and due to the rapid growth in the population of Lagos, we need to start going vertical, which is another theme of LASURA. We need to start building highrises. In order to do that, we need to adopt smart technology also. To this end, Lagos is trying to adopt the concept of the Smart City to make things more efficient and functional. Challenges of highrise technology such as fire outbreaks will be curtailed as we are building capacity to meet them. How would you ensure quality control in the construction of the proposed highrise buildings? One of the things LASURA is trying to do is some kind of a material control guideline. It’s been done all over. In Dubai for instance. We also intend to provide every crucial facility in the highrises, including an internal mall, health centre, gym, car park, and so on. We have also proposed the idea of bringing work closer to Lagosians’ homes and vice versa. The intent is to reduce the travel between residents’ home and work places. How long must residents of Adeniji Adele wait for the plans to be realised? One thing I would always tell people is that development planning is not something you do overnight and achieve full implementation immediately, it takes time. It is a very long process. I have worked in the US for over 30 years and over there, development projects continue over 15 – 20 year period. Planning is not something you just rush to do. In an environment like ours, you have to think of relocation assistance for all the people that would be displaced and you have to find a way to ensure that things go on properly.