Eleven days after she was killed by yet-to-be identified gunmen, the remains of Mrs. Funke Olakunri, the daughter of elder statesman Reuben Fasoranti, was on Monday buried at the cemetery of St. David’s Anglican Church Cathedral, Ijomu-Akure, the Ondo State capital. The emotion-filled funeral service was witnessed by eminent Nigerians, including governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (Ondo). Others at the service include: Ondo State Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi, former governors Olusegun Mimiko (Ondo) and Segun Oni (Ekiti), Wole Olanipekun (SAN), Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), Femi Fani-Kayode, Senator Iyiola Omisore, Chief Paul Akinyelure, Bishop of Igbomina West Diocese (Anglican Communion) Rev. Jide Adebayo, Bishop of Owo Anglican Diocese, Rev. Fagbemi and Chief Ayo Adebanjo, among others. In a 30-minute thought-provoking homily, the Bishop of Akure Anglican Diocese, Rev. Simeon Borokini, urged the people to always prepare for death, irrespective of their status. In his sermon titled: “Prepare to meet your God”, the cleric noted that there are two ways by which people will leave the world – either death in any form and rapture. Rev. Borokini described death as “inevitable”. Quoting from John, Chapter 14, he said every human being will taste death. According to him, death is not the end, but the beginning of another journey to an endless world. He stressed that only God can comfort the family the deceased left behind, especially her father, Chief Fasoranti and the widower, Idowu Olakunri. The cleric urged them to count on God, the Comforter, whom he said can turn their tears to joy. The cleric said: “Jesus is the only Comforter. So, we must all have Him. Unless we have Jesus, there is no comfort. Jesus is the only way to eternity. He is the only one that can guarantee eternal life for us. In Him, we have hope of eternal life.” He admonished the bereaved family to put their trust in God and rely on Him totally. Rev. Bokokini called on the government to tackle insecurity in the country, stressing that God will destroy every blood-sucking force in the country. The cleric asked: “Do we still have leaders in this country? Do we still have credible and dependable people who have integrity in this country? Why then is there no end to killing in this country? As a nation, we should look unto God for mercy and our government should do the needful? “We all have a limited time to spend on earth. It doesn’t matter how long we live, we will all die one day. Everyone, including governors, senators and the bandits, will give account of what they do on earth on the judgment day.” Describing the deceased as a “rare gem”, the cleric said: “We are gathered here today to bid our sister farewell. We have lost an icon in Ondo State and Nigeria at large.” The bishop prayed to God to grant President Muhammadu Buhari and other leaders the wisdom to end insecurity. Rev. Borokini said: “No one is safe in this country again. We are living with threats of killing on daily basis.” During a condolence visit to Pa Fasoranti after the burial, the governors called on the Federal Government to introduce ranches for cattle rearing. Akeredolu, who doubles as the Chairman of the Southwest Governors Forum, pointed out that his colleagues from Oyo, Osun, Ekiti, Ondo, Lagos and Ogun states were fed up with the criminal tendencies of herdsmen. Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola was not in Akure on Monday, but Akeredolu affirmed that he had earlier spoken with him on their position and he accepted it. The governors assured that an end would come to insecurity in the region, with their efforts. According to Akeredolu, the governors have resolved to end killings and kidnapping in the zone. He regretted that forests are now hideout for bandits. Akeredolu said: “We will not destroy the forests because they are pride of the region; governments of the state states will further encourage afforestation. “In Ondo State here, I have directed the police commissioner to mandate his men to embark on 24 hours patrol, rather than being on the check points. Other governors in the region have done similar things to end the menace of insecurity in the region. “We are also calling for collaboration of all citizens in the fight against insecurity in the region.” Chief Adebanjo condemned herdsmen activities, urging the governors to collectively fight insecurity ravaging the region. Fani-Kayode said that the position of the governors, if fully implemented, would help in the fight against insecurity. “I pray the governors have the courage to present their position to President Muhammadu Buhari. If it is true that there are Fulani vigilantes operating in the Southwest and mounting roadblocks, then it is a recipe for disaster and a precursor to war,” Fani-Kayode said. 