Dear reader, you are welcome to this exciting column in Jesus’ name! Marriage generally gives you a sense of accomplishment. It is your passage from one phase of life to another; it is a step forward that marks your progress in life. Every young man or woman has a dream or vision of the kind of home he or she would like to have. No one envisions troubles or divorce for him or herself. Everyone dreams of a joyful, peaceful and fruitful home. The good news is: God created marriage for the fulfilment of these dreams and aspirations; you will not be disappointed in Jesus’ Name! Peradventure your dreams for marriage seem not to be finding fulfilment right now, receive grace for a new beginning as you walk in line with God’s purposes for marriage henceforth. Marriage is a function of God’s favour. Once your marriage is fashioned according to God’s prescriptions in His Word, you procure His favour, and once that favour is there, it is irreversible. The Word of God says: Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the Lord (Proverbs 18:22). Even men are compelled to favour you, because when a man’s ways please the Lord, He causes even his enemies to be at peace with him. God’s favour is the maker of men. When you secure His favour, you progress and succeed effortlessly in life. Everyone needs God’s favour in life and marriage. That is why today, I will be teaching on: Enjoying Favour in Marriage. Success in life and marriage is not a function of your smartness or connections, but a function of God’s favour, because the Bible says: The Lord maketh poor, and maketh rich: he bringeth low, and lifteth up. He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord’s, and he hath set the world upon them (1 Samuel 2:7-8). The favour of God elevates you to greater heights that make you to be envied by men. When you step out, hand in hand with your partner, people see the glory of God upon you, honour you and open all manner of doors before you. Singles will desire to be like you, because the good hand of God upon your home will make marriage desirable to all who see you. God’s favour also secures for you lifting and promotion in status, which also affects your financial and material prosperity. God created marriage to give man an easy access to His favour so that he can live a sweatless life. This shall be your portion, in Jesus’ Name. One of the things that favour attracts is God’s blessings. The Bible states: The blessings of the Lord maketh rich and he added no sorrow to it (Proverbs 10:22). God’s blessings are sent to us to make us rich; not in finance alone, but in all aspect of life. To have the highest level of God’s blessings, you must give God the chance to be supreme in your life. He becomes supreme in your life, when you are controlled by His words in your thoughts, decisions, speech and actions. As this is done, the favour of God is made available for you to enjoy. To attract God’s favour in your marriage also, you must ensure that you keep the marriage bed pure. The Word of God says, Marriage is honourable in all and the bed undefiled… (Hebrews 13:4). The word ‘undefiled’ there simply means kept pure. If this was impossible, God won’t tell you to do it. Whether single or married, illicit sexual affairs render your service to God unrewardable and will deprive you of enjoying the honour He has destined for you in marriage. God is much more interested in your person than your money or what you can do. When your person is acceptable unto God then your service will become acceptable. Single men and ladies, if you must enjoy honour in your family life, when you get into marriage, you must lay a good foundation for it by keeping yourselves pure. God’s Word states in 1 Timothy 4:12, Let no man despise thy youth… Refuse to submit yourself to the deception of the devil. Many people get emotionally distorted when they defile the marriage bed to the extent that it disturbs their marital life. You can save your marriage from torments by keeping your life pure. If you are fond of jumping from one man to another as a single lady, today, I decree that the fire of the Lord falls on you and consumes that dirty habit in Jesus’ name. The later part of that scripture says …but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. The word ‘whore’ simple means harlot. Give no room to the devil if your soul is actually precious to you.  When you get into defiling the marriage bed, whether you are single or married, it is because your soul is not precious to you.  Refuse to fall a victim if you truly have value for yourself. Don’t say you want to earn yourself a living by prostituting because God will judge those who do that.  If your family has been scattered by adulterers or whoremongers, it shall be restored in the name of Jesus. EXTRA MARITAL AFFAIRS Let no man or woman lure you into having affairs together with whosoever is not your husband or wife. Don’t say everybody is doing it and the world now has really advanced. The world cannot be more advanced than the Word of God. Indecency and indiscipline have put so many young people into trouble today. Marital affairs are meant exclusively to be between husband and wife. Without holiness, the struggle continues and that’s why many married and singles are struggling in life because of sexual immoralities. The marital relationship is a seal of the covenant and it is sacred. The Word of God says, Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge (Hebrews 13:4). It is not your pastor that will judge, but God Himself is the judge. Remember that it is a fearful thing to fall. Adultery is very cancerous and it kills respect between couples. Instead of enjoying the honour of marriage, such actions bring shame. All manner of venereal diseases are on the streets today and adultery and fornication are one of the distribution centres for it. It doesn’t take more than this to enjoy God’s blessings in your home. If you want this blessings, then you should say this prayer of faith: Dear Lord, I come to You today. I am a sinner.  Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. I accept You as my Lord and Saviour. Now I know I am born again! Congratulations, you are now born again! I believe that you will begin to experience the reality of the price that Jesus paid for you at Calvary. Please call or write, and share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org or 08141320204, 07026385437. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building A Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).