Achieving the Niger Delta’s twin goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity will require unprecedented efforts by the government and the private sector to unleash small business-led growth. Innovation leaders are on a campaign to get organisations to support startups growth in the region, DANIEL ESSIET reports Even in an age of globalised free trade, some states in the Niger Delta have remained  outsiders in the growing startups revolution. This was of  concern to Convener, Startup South, Uche Aniche, who lamented that the number of startups has been  declining for decades. As the momentum builds, Aniche wants the government  and the private sector to seek ways to help businesses grow profits, invest in the region and create good jobs. For him, if youths from the Niger Delta are to enjoy the same increase in living standards like other parts of the country, the economy of the region expand in employment, make its workforce more competitive, and accelerate productivity growth that is driven by innovation and higher-value goods and services. Aniche said concerted efforts to help  startups  in  the area  explore  economic  opportunities will build general confidence that encourages investors, startups  and would-be entrepreneurs to focus their energies on  developing the region thereby  creating a positive cycle. Reaffirming its commitment to supporting entrepreneurship as a key driver of growth and development, Convener, Startup South, is organising a startups summit in Uyo, the Capital of Akwa Ibom State. It will be attended by founders, innovators and investors from across Nigeria to discuss technology and startup trends and challenges facing startups growth in the region. Themed: “Unlocking the Next 60 Million” will be held from October 29 to November 2 and will feature keynotes, ministerial panels, master classes and boot camps, while providing invaluable networking opportunities for participants in over 60 sessions by diverse organisations and individuals. Major highlights will be the participation of at least four governors from the region, who will hold a joint session to be streamed live by a partner television channel.  There will also be a pitch session which has seen past winners raise over $400,000 in investment capital over the past four years. The pitch session will also be streamed live. Anichie said: “Over the past five years, we have worked hard to make the conference a driver of conversation that will boost economic growth in the region leveraging technology. This edition promises to see lots of improvements with participation from more diverse stakeholders. The Team is excited at the level of support StartupSouth5 Uyo is receiving from stakeholders across the regions and Nigeria and we can’t wait to welcome participants to the best edition yet.” One of the main partners, Main One described the event as a critical tool for the diversification of the Nigerian economy, especially the region which is over-reliant on crude oil. Congratulating the organisers of the StartupSouth5, Chief Executive Officer of Main One, Ms Funke Opeke explained: “Main One’s support for the start-up business community in the Southsouth/Southeast is predicated on its belief that startups and tech will be the engine for the economic development of Nigeria.” “Over the years, Startup South conference has displayed an unwavering commitment to this conference specifically designed to help grow and sustain SMEs in the Southsouth/Southeast. “As Main One expands the reach of its services beyond our landing point in Lagos, we recognise the potential of new ecosystems such as #Startup South in growing the Nigerian economy and creating jobs and are eager to lend support. Our focus is on deploying the infrastructure services that enable startup companies to thrive and this is the reason for our partnership with the #Startup South,” Opeke said. On its part, the financial technology company, Riby, which is focused on helping Nigerians achieve financial stability by empowering cooperative banking with the use of efficient technology said it was delighted to partner with #StartupSouth5 as it will help it deepen its footprint in the region. “Through this partnership with Startup South, we aim to extend our services to co-operatives, potential partners and stakeholders in the Southsouth zone of Nigeria. Cooperatives are vibrant here and we are excited at the opportunity to introduce our Riby Co-Banking product into the market,” said Riby’s CEO, Abolore Salami. The founder, Start Innovation Hub, Uyo, Johnson Hanson, is one of leaders of the campaign to mobilise entrepreneurs with business ideas that can transform  communities to take centre stage at the summit. He  said the Twitter community has placed Uyo as the software developer capital of the country. This is because of the opportunities linked to developers working with startups and creating solutions in the mobile technology sector and other areas. According to him, startups in the area have been drivers of  growth and job creation. He  stressed that there is need to  support business incubation centres. Given the benefits of fast-growing startups, Hanson said support for small enterprises has emerged as a top priority and that the government needs to work with hubs to play critical roles in identifying young, growth-oriented, and technology-enabled entrepreneurs. According to him, they are the backbone of economies, and, by providing new solutions to development, they can also be important drivers of sustainable and inclusive growth.