The Managing Director, First City Monument Bank (FCMB) , Adam Nuru has said the opening of the Ile-Ife branch of the bank was in line with the lender’s commitment to grow its network to meet individual and business aspirations of its customers. He spoke at the opening of the Ile-Ife branch of the bank in Sun State. Nuru, who was represented by the Executive Director, Business Development, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said that: ‘’Though, most customers prefer to carry out transactions from wherever they are, using our highly convenient and secure alternate channels, such as FCMBMobile, FCMBOnline, *329# USSD code and ATMs spread widely across Nigeria, some still prefer human interaction when banking. This additional customer touchpoint will further boost our offerings in line with our core values of Execution, Professionalism, Innovation and Customer-focus (EPIC) in a conducive and convenient environment’’. The new branch is located at 3, Akarabata Layout (along Lagere Road), Ile-Ife. The development is in line with the bank’s strategic expansion drive and commitment towards bringing its banking services closer to the doorsteps of more people and businesses, while also promoting financial inclusion in Nigeria.  This brings to three the number of branches of FCMB in Osun state and 206 nationwide. The location of the branch had taken into consideration convenience for residents and businesses in Ile-Ife and neighbouring towns in the State. The new branch opening ceremony was attended by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi (Ojaja II); Chairman of Ife Central Local Government, Hon. Elugbaju Olayera, traditional and community leaders, captains of industry, among other guests. Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology of FCMB,  Oluwakayode Adigun, said: “Our Ile-Ife branch, just like other branches of FCMB across Nigeria, brings with it, something special in terms of structure and aesthetics. Part of our commitment to promoting a cleaner and greener environment, is by use of renewable energy and in this new branch, we have adopted solar technology which is a clean energy solution that produces minimal waste, is non-pollutant and great for the environment.