National Gallery of Art (NGA) will on Friday present to the public a book on the life and works of multidimensional artist and architect, Demas Nwoko at the Exhibition Pavilion, opposite Radio House, Abuja at 10 am. The event will also include the exhibition of images of his art- works. Nwoko is one of the early graduates of the famous Nigeria College of Arts, Science & Technology (NCAST), Zaria, which became Ahmadu Bello University. He was a prominent member of the Zaria Art Society popularly known as ‘Zaria Rebels’ alongside the late Prof Uche Okeke, Prof. Yusuf Grillo, Prof Bruce Onobrakpeya. Others are: Emmanuel Okechukwu Odita, Simon Okeke,  Oseloka Osadebe, F. I. N. Ekeada, William Olaosebikan, Ognonnaya Nwagba and I. M. Omagie, the only woman among them. According to the Acting Director-General, Dr. Simon Ikpakronyi, who is the author of the book, Nwoko has bestridden the art scene like a colossus for six decades.  “It is simply amazing how he was able to fuse Fine art and Architecture with relative ease,” he stated. “In a world where specialisation is the order of the day with people sticking to their specialties; their comfort zones as it were, he dares to be different. He approximates the axiom of jack of all trades and master of all. He is as good a painter as he is an exceptional stage designer, architect and builder. He also left lasting imprints as playwright, dancer, director, actor and at 80 plus, a furniture maker!” Notable personalities expected at the event are: Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe as book presenter; Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Winifred Ekanem Oyo-Ita as Special Guest of Honour; Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Information & Culture, Deaconess Grace Isu Gekpe as Chief Host. NGA chair, Ambassador Umaru Azores Sulaiman is the Chairman of the occasion. Last week, National Gallery of Art presented a book and exhibited the artworks of another eminent scholar and acclaimed painter from the same Nigeria College of Arts, Science & Technology, Zaria, Prof Jimoh Bola Akolo. And penultimate week, NGA also showcased the creative acumen of our children to the public at an event tagged, Rainbow art: Unlocking creativity. 