All is not well with the country. The blood of the innocent is mindlessly shed across the country by terrorists, armed bandits, murderous herders and kidnappers. While the police and relevant agencies are doing their best to contain the situation, Nigerians are worried that their best is not enough, reports PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU. Ooni of Ife Oba Enitan Ogunwusi was at the Presidential Villa in Abuja yesterday to dialogue with President Muhammadu Buhari. Oba Ogunwusi’s main concern is the state of insecurity in the land. He does not want war. So, he urged the president to stem the tide of insecurity in the country. About a week before the Ooni’s visit to the Villa, Mrs Funke Olakunri (nee Fasoranti) left Akure, the Ondo State capital en route Lagos. She had no incline death awaited her at Ore, some one hour drive from the Akure home of her father, Pa Reuben Fasoranti. Mrs Olakunri was shot dead by gunmen who have made the forest on Lagos-Benin highway their abode. According to an account by her younger brother, Kehinde Fasoranti, six people shot at them from the front and when the driver attempted to reverse the car, some men in the bush opened fire from behind. Like Olakunri, 10 people were killed and several others injured on July 13 by armed bandits numbering over 300 in Kirtawa Village, Katsina State; four policemen, including Divisional Police Officer (DPO) SP Ola Rosanla, were murdered during an attack on Agudama Ekpetiama Police Station at Yenagoa, Bayelsa State on July 1; and another cop gunned down on July 5 at Utesi on Benin-Auchi Expressway by kidnappers who whisked away the two Chinese he was guarding never envisaged death. Insecurity seems to be at all-time high with terrorism, armed banditry, kidnapping, farmer-herder clashes, communal crisis, boundary disputes, armed robbery, cultism and ethnoreligious tensions claiming 7,253 lives between June 2018 and May 2019, according to the Nigeria Security Tracker. No day passes without reports of chilling violence perpetrated against nationals and foreigners on the social media, especially attacks on major highways across the country carried out by gunmen masquerading as herdsmen. These marauders usually come out of the forest announcing their appearance with sporadic gunshots, raining bullets on vehicles and passengers without care before handpicking victims to march into their enclaves. Despite the Federal Government’s promises to fish out culprits, prosecute them and ensure the menaces are contained, insecurity has continued unabated generating massive public outcry and suspicion. Some Nigerians have accused the government at the centre of deliberately allowing insecurity fester for selfish and pecuniary reasons. Some believe that the police, the military and other security services are overwhelmed, inadequately equipped, understaffed and underfunded to tackle head-on, the myriads of security challenges that have bedevilled the country. Considering that all the security and intelligence agencies in the country were estimated to be about 750,000 against the over 200 million population scattered across 923,768 Km2 land mass, 4,047km recognised land borders and 853km coastlines, observers believe the agencies should have by now, won public trust, confidence and partnership to get actionable intelligence to nip criminality in the bud. Global best practices recommend a policeman per 100 people but that is not the case in Nigeria. The policing strength is further depleted by the number of security aides attached to public office holders, their families and private individuals who are rich. The nation expects magic from the police and sister security agencies and many have wondered why the security agents perform excellently when on international missions abroad but cannot replicate same back home not knowing the reasons were beyond the personnel. Funding challenge  Policing does not come cheap. Former Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris said that much when he asked for at least N200billion yearly for investigation alone during 2018 budget defence at the National Assembly. He spoke on the funding inadequacy of the police which has made it almost impossible for the service to carry out its daily routine of securing lives and properties in the country. As of today, Investigating Police Officers (IPOs) buy statement forms, bail bonds, feed suspects and pay all running costs pertaining to their cases from their pockets. This, no doubt, has fuelled the practice of collecting money from complainants for investigation or charging suspects for bail. It is also common knowledge that most furniture, electronic devices, including fans and air conditioner systems and police stations are exhibits gotten from suspects, which explain why they have numbers on them. The funding issue, analysts said, has also grossly affected the welfare, equipping and training of policemen. Till date, policemen and women live in dilapidated barracks with a handful of them sleeping inside kitchens, patrol vehicles at police station due to no accommodation. Observers are of the view that policemen will continue to collect kickbacks to sustain patrols, buy stationery and other office equipment because the quarterly N45,000 per station cannot sustain them for two weeks.  The statistics  Lamenting the plight of the police, Idris stated that despite recommendations by the M.D. Yusuf Committee of 2008 that the police would need an estimated N2.8 trillion for capital development (N560 billion/year) within five years for effective reform, N16.1 billion was appropriated to the service in 2016 but a paltry N10 billion was released. The police demanded N1.164 trillion between 2012 and 2016 for the capital budget, of which N64.999 billion was appropriated but only N40.477 billion was released and cash-backed. For overhead allocations, N328.34 billion was requested, N39.43 billion was appropriated and only N32.22 billion was released within the period under review, while of the N200billion requested for investigations alone annually, just N121million was released that year. With a fleet of 14,306 vehicles, including 3,115 motorcycles, the police need N19.9 billion to minimally fuel them yearly, but they got only N809 million in 2016. The ex-IGP said: ‘‘What is most worrisome is that though the budgetary allocations on paper are insufficient to meet the financial needs of the force, the actual releases are far below what is budgeted. The basic requirement to provide adequate and appropriate items of kits for police personnel annually is N14, 583,671,264 as against the N1, 752,500,000 earmarked in the 2017 Appropriation. “This limitation negatively affects the turn-out of police personnel. Of date, there are over 7,000 police formations and units across the federation. There is a constant movement of the personnel of the force to either quell civil disturbance, contain violent crime, investigation purposes or even routine movement of personnel on transfers/posting within or outside these locations. ‘‘These movements entail the payment of appropriate Duty Tour Allowances (DTA), payment of allowance in lieu of hotel accommodation, etc. Unfortunately, allocation to the force in terms of DTA is paltry. It is estimated that the force needs over N200 billion for local travels and transport. ‘‘In the 2017 Appropriation, a budget of N411million is made for local travels and transport nationwide. This translates to an average of N58, 714 annually to each of the 7,000 locations or just N4, 893 monthly per formation. The implication of this is those police officers on official assignments are not paid their DTAs, thereby making the police to fall back on the state governments to offset some of these allowances. “The total average maintenance of the fleet was evaluated at N7.04 billion per year, but N486 million was released in 2016.” As security challenges increase, Nigerians continue to mount pressure on the police and sister services comparing them with their colleagues elsewhere. However, not many have taken the pains to understudy how those police formations abroad are funded. For instance, a 2007-2008 report by the British House of Commons Home Affairs Committee entitled “Policing in the 21st Century” showed that the United Kingdom spent 2.5 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on the police in 2004 and £12.6 billion on the police in 2007/08. Similarly, the United States of America spent 2.2 per cent, Spain 1.8 per cent,  Germany 1.6 per cent and France 1.4 per cent of their GDPs all translating to billions of dollars. In addition to its annual police funding, France in 2016 gave extra €250 million to the police to boost their fight against terrorism.  Death of equipment/security gadgets  Another issue affecting policing in Nigeria is the lack of equipment and security gadgets. But for the Lagos State Government that has made consistent efforts under the State Security Trust Fund Bill to empower all divisions with at least one patrol vehicle and two motorcycles, most divisions across the country have none. Because of these challenges, the police concentrate deployments to areas where humans reside, thus, resulting to zero presence in areas such as forests, creeks and mangroves which criminals take advantage of. Also worrisome is the reality that the police barely have teargas, smoke and other anti-riot tools which explains why these operatives are deployed to quell riotous crowd with live ammunition resulting in avoidable deaths, injuries from gunshots.  Training shortfalls  In an interview with The Nation, Lagos State Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu noted the need for adequate training and retraining of policemen as a way to get desired reforms. This need has become urgent giving that the current training curriculum of the police seems outdated. With the realities of guerrilla warfare and ethnoreligious tensions that have the propensity of consuming the country, policemen believe it was time-wasting to assemble them at a training institution for refresher courses only to teach them theories. Findings reveal that the cops loath going for training because they are made to spend money they do not have at the institutions. “The training system is archaic. The lecturers are not motivated because their posting to the institutions is considered as punishment. Practicals are not thought and most of these lecturers see those coming for courses as avenues to make money for themselves. “Trainees have to contribute money for lecturers to buy souvenirs, repair borehole or other facilities despite that training allowances which should ordinarily be paid aren’t paid. So, why policemen are asked to go for training, they rather decline and seek juicy postings where they can make money for themselves. “If a policeman is sick, there is no money for medical treatment. They have to do voluntary donations and most hospitals once they see it is police personnel, they do not like taking them because they see them as a liability. All these need to change and it is only adequate funding that can solve it,” a policeman said.  The solution to security quagmire  Activist lawyer Femi Falana (SAN) said the National Assembly should enact a law to provide for military training for young people pursuant  to the provision of section 220 (1) of the Constitution. In the meantime, he said governors should request the President to maintain adequate facilities  in some secondary or post-secondary institutions for giving military training to members of the security groups that have been set up to aid the police in securing the people rather than using untrained armed groups. “Owing to the inability of the Nigeria Police Force to secure the country state governments have been forced to rely on vigilante groups, hunters and other armed groups. Instead of allowing such untrained security bodies to police the country, it is high time that each state was allowed to establish a well- trained and well-equipped state police service. “As far as I am concerned, it is discriminatory, illegal and unconstitutional to give licences to a few individuals in the country to have guns to defend themselves while a state government is disallowed from acquiring licences for 10,000 or 20,000 young men and women to bear arms to defend millions of people.  “If state police is not allowed by the Federal Government, the National Assembly should enact a law to provide for military training for young people pursuant to the provision of section 220 (1) of the Constitution. “Until the law is passed state governors are at liberty to request President Buhari to maintain adequate facilities in some secondary or post-secondary institutions for giving military training to members of the security groups that have been set up to aid the police in securing the people,” said Falana. A retired Police Commissioner, Abubarkar Tsav, said the Federal Government should direct the Inspector General of Police (IG) and Police Service Commission to commence immediate recruitment of rank and files in order to address the manpower deficiencies. He said: “It is apparent that the Federal Government of Nigeria under President Buhari is not taking the security situation in the country very seriously as it should. The police, whose prime responsibility is to provide security of life and property in the country, are overwhelmed and overstretched. “They are unable to contain the insecurity situation in the country. The number of rank and files has depleted as a result of retirements, death, promotion to officer grades among others, with no replacements. “If the federal government of President Buhari is serious about security, the IGP and PSC should be directed to commence recruitment of members of the Rank and File in Police. Delay will be counterproductive. While debating about State Police, let us now try to swell the number of policemen and women in the junior cadre.” A senior military officer who pleaded anonymity said Nigerians must understand the differences and difficulties between conventional and non-conventional warfare. “Issues such as injustice, inequality, corruption, indiscipline and maladministration should be addressed. Then, look at the attitude of an average Nigerian towards Nigeria. “Are they patriotic? Is there love for the national interest? Nigerians must understand that solutions to terrorism and insecurity lie largely with the populace and not the military nor security agencies. “The solutions involve kinetic efforts, diplomatic collaborations, humanitarian contributions, media patriotism and indeed populace involvement,” he said. Head legal directorate Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) in the Southwest, Comrade Kunle Sodipo, noted the need for border towns to be given special considerations especially those in conflict regions or between states with communal clashes. “The Nigeria Police require strategic information from the public for effective and proactive community policing. There is a need for inclusiveness and enduring partnership to stamp out all forms of criminality. Inadequate funding, inadequate manpower, and inadequate equipment should be addressed as a matter of urgency. “Every crime is local in nature, just as every criminal is traceable to a house or dwelling place within the locality. It is those in the same neighbourhood with the criminals and with the necessary orientation that can easily identify and track them down. “PCRC should be strengthened, funded and factored into the security architecture and engagements of all the governments of the Southwest in order to stamp out new criminal incursions of armed banditry, kidnapping, cultism and all other violent crimes,” he said. But to the former IG, the passage of the Police Trust Fund Bill (PTFB) is the solution to all pitfalls affecting the service in combating the security challenges as it would largely address the funding problem and by extension improve on welfare, the efficiency of cops in discharging their duties. The bill, which is still pending at the National Assembly if passed, will d address issues of Information Communication Technology (ICT), patrol/operational vehicles, crafts and other facilities, provision of the full complement of arms/ammunition, riot control equipment, protective gears, armoury and firing/shooting range Others include forensic technology/scientific aids for investigation; operational/administrative logistics; community policing project/public relations; clothing/accoutrements; construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of infrastructure/facilities for capacity building (training), as well as rehabilitation/construction of stations, barracks and personnel welfare.  Until then…  For now, people still have to watch their back all the time and sleep with only one eye closed!