The 14- man fact finding and reconciliation Committee set up by the Anambra State Working Committee  of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has submitted its report. The report was submitted on Monday by the Acting Chairman of the Committee, Chief Ikechukwu Ibe, alongside other members including, Nze Modestus Umenzekwe. However, The Nation gathered that the report was received by the Secretary of the party, Hon. Chukwuma Agufugo. But the Chairman of the Committee, C J Chinwuba, a lawyer,who was suspended by the Committee,  told The Nation the report had not been submitted to  anyone. He said the Committee was planning to submit it’s report before the end of the week, to enable it put some finishing touches on it When the party chairman,Chief Basil Ejidike,  was contacted on Monday ,he said he was not aware of the submission of the Committee’s report as he was not in the state. Also, he told The Nation that the planned summit on Friday by the APC in the state had been shifted to accommodate all the stakeholders, especially, those that travelled. He said  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was to lead APC chieftains to the state, had been notified on the development. The fresh crisis in the party,allegedly  stemmed from the fact that the committee was set up abnitio by the party without consulting some of the major stakeholders in the state. Some of these stakeholders The Nation gathered were, former Minister of Labour, Sen Chris Ngige, Sen Andy Uba, Chief George Moghalu among others. As a result, the members of the committee could not reach any agreement, thus, it was equally difficult to to bring the stakeholders together. In a letter to the SWC dated 8-7-2019 and signed by Ikechukwu Ibe as the acting Chairman of the Committee and Dr Peter Ogbuka as secretary, said Chinwuba had been removed The letter entitled, “Suspension /Removal of Committee Chairman, Barr C J Chinwuba “was obtained by The Nation, reads: “This is to notify you of the suspension of Barr C J Chinwuba as the chairman of the fact finding committee on the 2019 general elections in Anambra State ” “This is sequel to his inconsistency and double standard thus frustrating our work. It is note worthy that he scheduled a meeting for 7-7-2019 for which circular was properly issued by the secretary and reminder sent ” “Agenda for this meeting was for adoption of the committee report and signing same, so that the report would be submitted to the SWC on 8-7-2019” “it is very disheartening and embarrassing that he abandoned the scheduled meeting, absconded the committee” “Consequent upon this and for the committee to finish up her assignment for which it has worked for over three months resolved as follows,:suspend /renove the chairman Barr Chinwuba and that the Vice Chairman Chief Ik Ibeh to henceforth act as Acting Chairman.”