All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in Ondo state on Saturday lauded the dispute resolution mechanism of its national leadership on the protracted acrimony within loyalists of the party in the state,describing it as laudable. A former lawmaker representing Ianre/Ifedore federal constituency, Bamidele Baderinwa (White) and party stalwart, Bayo Ologbese in separate statements lauded the step taken by the National Leadership of the party towards reconciling members in the State. Baderinwa hailed the visitation of the National Leaders of the party led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to the state on reconciliation mission. The former lawmaker who spoke while receiving members of his campaign team on a condolence visit on the death of his sister, Mrs Mary Adegoroye said the meeting would foster unity among members ahead of future elections. He said “the reconciliation move if genuinely adhere to will bring about the desire peace in Ondo APC members involved must accept the outcome of the peace. Baderinwa thanked his campaign group for their loyalty and support during his tenure at the eighth assembly and their efforts for his re-election bid in the 2019 National Assembly election.
READ ALSO: Ondo APC youths canvass support for Lawan, Boroffice He attributed his loss at the poll to the level of anti party activities of major stakeholders of the APC in the state and appealed for genuine reconciliation. Ologbese said the fortune of the party should be paramount to all stakeholders, who had sacrificed to ensure that APC became a ruling party in the state after 2016 polls. The statement urged all factions within the party to embrace unity and peace in order to forge ahead. It noted that if these groups aligned and champion a common goal,the party would rule beyond 2021. The APC loyalist praised Asiwaju Bola Tinubu,Chiefs Bisi Akande,Segun Osoba and others for sparing their time to understudy the crack in the party and took urgent step to reconcile all warring factions without supporting any group. He also commended the convener of the meeting,Chief Pius Akinyelure,the former National Vice Chairman(Southwest) of the APC.