Sexual assault has dependably been an issue, as of late, the conduits have created an avenue for more ladies to recount to their ordeals. This got to show you that every teenager has a story to tell.  I would love to say this, ” just because an unfortunate victim doesn’t voice out immediately about an assault doesn’t mean the allegations are false”, the way she expressed herself might seem untrue but the fact is that there is a r*pe case here, so it will be better to be aware of such incidence to avoid future occurrence than to make some excuses. Without a doubt, there are numerous reasons why victims of r*pe may dither to stand up following such occurrence:  3 Due to the way people will react, speaking up about a r*pe incident can be agonizing and can cause the victim humiliation, shame and segregation in the society. Sometimes the society view this victims as if they are some sort of evil spirit and will always use the r*pe incident to describe the person anytime any day. 4 It’s especially troublesome if a victim is accusing a powerful individual in the public arena or somebody who has control over them. They hardly speak up due to the fear of being attacked or killed by this powerful people and so for some reasons, the victims may feel that it could be simpler to attempt to proceed onward from the assault without speaking up with the hope of healing on their own but in most cases you find out that it becomes very difficult for them to heal totally unless they open up, reasons why some cases are been reported after several years. The psychological effects of r*pe is very difficult to handle alone. 5. Last but not the least, most of these r*pe victims usually get victimized by somebody they know very well, which can make it harder for them to speak up. This is the reason every parent should be involved in the growth of their children, don’t be to busy not to teach them about sex education, how to be bold enough to express themselves and strong enough to fight for their lives, ensuring them of their safety in your hands. Watch out for those pervert uncles, cousin, relations, close family friends, neighbours, mates, lesson teachers etc, nah them. The predators are also within.  Eze Favour
Editor Nigerianscitizens.com
https://www.nigerianscitizens.com/timi-dakolo-wedding-rumours-coza-pastor/