The Committee of Bénin Elders has declared support for Governor Godwin Obaseki, saying the proclamation he issued for the inauguration of the 7th Edo State House of Assembly remained effective. It said the inauguration of members is the responsibility of the Clerk of the House and any dispute arising from inauguration could be resolved by resort to the judiciary in line with proper democratic practice. Some members of the Bénin Elders that signed a statement to journalists in Bénin City include: Prof. Emmanuel Emovon, Prof. Dennis Agbonlahor, Justice I Aluyi, Justice J.O Olubor, Prof. Union EDEBIRI amongst others. The Bénin Elders said the ongoing political crisis was an unfortunate distraction, which should be resolved amicably such that it does not disturb peace and development of the state. They vowed to ensure the ongoing developmental stride of Governor Obaseki is sustained. According to them: “We are aware the present Governor and his immediate predecessor in a reciprocal manner helped each other into office at different times with a mandate to develop Edo State. “The predecessor played his part well and his successor is in the meantime doing the same. “We therefore opine that the Governor should be given a peaceful atmosphere to develop the state and he has not deviated from that sacred mandate. “We need to put it on record that the governor Mr Godwin Obaseki has been performing creditably in terms of infrastructural development, education advancement , economic advancement and maintenance of peace across the state since assumption of office. “We are aware that the governor has issued a proclamation and forwarded the same to the clerk of the house . Under the relevant provision of the constitution of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), such proclamation once made remains effective. “The circumstance, the committee feels that the intervention by the house of representative at this stage is premature and unwarranted. “This is more so when it is clear from the express wording of section 105 of the constitution that any intervention in the affairs of any state house of assembly should be by the joint action of the two House of National Assembly”.