THESE are trying times. What with the killings and kidnapping across the country, things cannot be worse than this. Every day the people wake up, they are greeted with the grim news of one murder or the other and one kidnapping or the other. Everywhere they turn to, it is trouble. The roads are not safe; our homes are not safe; our offices are not better. Not even the hallowed precinct of the National Assembly can be said to be secure. The other day, members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) popularly known as Shi’ites nearly overran the place while protesting the continued detention of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. The way people are killed on the road, on their farms and in their homes is frightening. It shows that security has broken down. These are not the usual Boko Haram attacks perpetrated by those indoctrinated to believe that they are killing and dying for a cause. They are the handiwork of those who are out to destabilise the country. These hoodlums are cashing in on the herders – farmers clashes in some parts of the country to perpetrate atrocities nationwide. They know that the attacks will be blamed on herders, some of who have turned some states in North central to killing fields. They invade farms with their cattle, leaving death and destruction in their trail. Some of them even came down south, hitting the farm of former Alliance for Democracy (AD) presidential candidate in the 1999 election Chief Olu Falae. They went away with him and only let him off after the Ondo State Government allegedly paid a ransom. If they were real herdsmen would they have collected ransom? This calls to question the real identity of those killing, maiming and kidnapping all over the place. Where are they from? Are they an offshoot of the Boko Haram insurgents? These are some of the posers that need urgent answers before things explode. The killing of Afenifere leader Pa Reuben Fasoranti’s daughter Mrs Funke Olakunri on Friday has made it extremely urgent for the nation to address the issue of insecurity frontally. The government has wasted too much matter in tackling these marauders and this might have given them the impression that they are above the law. No government worth its name will keep quiet when its citizens are being mauled by hoodlums. We have laws and these laws must be applied against those who commit crime. Killings and kidnapping are crimes under the law. What is the police doing about bringing the perpetrators of these crimes to book? Why is it so difficult to arrest them? This is the crux of the matter. Is it that some people are shielding these criminals? It was like this when herdsmen and their cattle were destroying farms. Nobody was arrested. This is why victims and their families are pointing fingers at herdsmen as perpetrators of these dastardly acts in the Southwest. Mrs Olakunri is dead. Nobody can bring her back, but her death will not be in vain if her killers are brought to book. The police must work like never before to get her killers because if they do not, the consequences will be too grave for us as a nation. It seems it was a premeditated attack as her vehicle was reportedly continuously shot at as her chauffeur drove furiously with reverse to get away from the scene. Despite his efforts, they still got her. The law will get them too. This is the wish of Nigerians so that our country is not thrown into another bitter enterprise.  OYO State Governor Seyi Makinde has done what many in his position cannot do. He has made public details of his asset declaration. He is worth over N48 billion. I commend him for setting the pace in a society where many public officers believe it is a taboo to release such information. If all public officers can only be like him, the society will be better for it. But no, they will hide under the constitutional provision that asset declaration is not for public consumption! IN the Daily Times Newsroom of yore, Sir Odafe Othihiwa, who died on Tuesday, stood out. He was 77. Ever before people like me, who are very junior to him, joined the Daily Times, Sir Odafe was already a reporting legend. Wherever there was news break, there you will find him. He crisscrossed beats in search of stories. As expected, his forays into their’ beats did not go down well with the reporters, who saw it as ‘invasion’. Many complained to no end about his activities, but Sir Odafe was not moved. He kept on doing what he loved to do. Sir Odafe  loved journalism and he gave his all to the job. No assignment was too small for him to cover. To him, both big and small assignments were the same and you must give them your best shot in order to turn out a good report. Sir Odafe was a reporter’s reporter. He was versed in the art of reporting. You could not but respect him when you met him on the beat. Journalism ran in his veins; that was why he always wanted to be where things were happening. I remember when Immanuel Odumosu aka Jesu Oyingbo died in 1990. Sir Odafe was there at Jesu Oyingbo’s Maryland enclave to cover the enigma’s passage. I was with The Punch then. I was intrigued that at his age, he could join us junior reporters to cover that event. He went about the place like us snooping for details about the man’s death as his followers were not forthcoming with information. Sir Odafe gave me a ride in his Peugeot 504 car to Olowu Street junction off Obafemi Awolowo Way, Ikeja, as we headed back to our offices. As I alighted from the car, he gave me money, saying: Gba kofi wo moto. When I joined the Daily Times, our relationship blossomed. He wanted me to remain in Abuja when I went on relief duty there in 1993, but I played a fast one on him and returned to Lagos before he could take the matter up officially. Sir Odafe lived and breathed journalism. Nothing made him happier than to go after good stories. Even when he became an administrator, the reporter in him never left him. This was why after he retired from Daily Times, shortly before its eclipse in 2004, he found his way to Africa Independent Television (AIT) to work as General Manager, Current Affairs. If there was a born reporter, Sir Odafe was one. May he find rest in the Lord’s bosom.