Six suspected crude oil thieves, including a woman, have been nabbed by a team of the Inspector General of Police Special Task Force on Pipeline Vandalism near, Ogbe-Ijoh, Warri South West council area of Delta state at the weekend. The police team, which is attached to the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Warri Refinery Depot, also arrested three speed boats, two large wooden boats with pumping machines and long hoses with valves, as well as drums containing about 10,000 litres of locally refined product suspected to be AGO, also known as diesel. The six suspects, who allegedly specialise in crude oil theft in the coastal area, were identified as Jonathan Ofawinor, Akpos Oba , Hausa Kamienyefa, Arukpei Yerin, Samson Matthew and Ebi Emiyekpemi (the woman) and are currently being detained at the IGP Task Force Base in Warri. The arrest was made along the coastal areas of Safi 1 and Safi 2. Unit Commander IGP Special Task Force, SP Mohammed El-Yakubu has warned those perpetuating oil theft and pipeline sabotage within the Warri waterways to keep off. Parading the suspects, he stressed that his men are committed to the IGP Mohammed Adamu’s directive on zero tolerance for pipeline vandalism and crude oil theft. Speaking on the arrest, the unit commander noted that it was successful due to the swift response of the Commander General, ACP Usman Jibrin to the operation and efforts by his men to gather intelligence. “We want to assure all those who have reposed confidence in us like IGP Mohammed Adamu, our Commander General in Abuja, ACP Usman Kafani Jibrin and Delta state Police Commissioner, CP Adeyinka Adeleke, that we would continue to do our best in tackling the menace of pipeline vandalism within our operational areas. “While the six suspects would soon be charged to court to face the charges of economic sabotage, the impounded product would first be subjected to a laboratory test to confirm the content before being discounted by the DPR officials,” El-Yakubu said. He further commended the Delta state Police Commissioner, CP Adeyinka Adeleke, for the continuous moral support.