While delivering a short talk to a group of students on the lessons of life recently, I mentioned my molue experiences when I was a young reporter years ago with the now rested The Comet newspaper. I got an almost blank response from about 95 per cent of them who said they’ve only partially heard about it and none ever boarded one.  Expectedly, my lecture focus took a different direction as I lectured them on the varied sides of my molue experiences and the lessons it taught about life. I recollect how my colleagues and I used to board those rickety huge yellow buses that defined Lagos in the past, from different parts of the city to Ijora where the newspaper house was located. Molues are now relics of the past thanks to the introduction of BRT buses; first by the Babatunde Fashola-led administration and subsequent ones thereafter in Lagos State. Inside the molue, you have superb ‘salesmen’ who can convince commuters to buy anything from perfumes, books, to clothes and even drugs. There are also itinerant preachers on board to minister to souls that need ‘divine’ assistance. Of these, the one that amazed me all through remained the ‘in-bus pharmacists.’ Some of these sugar coated ‘pharmacists’ sold drugs based on their colours! Strange as this sound, it’s true. They mix red, yellow, brown and white drugs together and the ‘resident pharmacist’ onboard then gives customers the ‘prescription!” Also strange is that you also find onboard drugs that cure all diseases – yes, ALL diseases – inside the molue.  There are still other drugs, when taken, ‘boosts energy’ and with it one can “run from Ijora to Ikorodu without getting tired!” In all these, one thing thrives inside the molue; crass ignorance. Beyond the molue experiences, life teaches tremendous lessons that often come into sharp focus as we age. Life has taught me, for instance, not to confuse money with happiness because money can’t make me happy, but self-sufficiency gives me the freedom to share myself creatively, and explore ways of touching other people’s lives. One key lesson I’ve learnt is being grateful for this moment because it is all there is. The source of most of our frustrations and anxiety are the result of living in the future, or the past. We sometimes glorify the past because things were ‘quite easy’ way back then or we simply envision a utopia future. Talking about gratitude, what a United States-based Nigerian father, Evans Nwankwo did is quite instructive. He sent his 14-year-olds twin teen sons to spend their junior secondary school years in Nigeria to learn some gratitude. According to reports, the boys, Noble and Evan, attended Mea Mater Elizabeth High School in Enugu. There, they passed through the daily routine of waking up by 5 am for exercise and prayer, something they never experienced in the US. There’s also no help from mum on homework or washing clothes, either. The elder Nwankwo explained why he took this route: “Adversity is important in somebody’s development in life, as far as I’m concerned, because there comes a time when the storm is going to hit you, and if you never had that to fall back on you’re just going to fall apart. I strongly believe that because it’s been important in my own development.” Raised in Nigeria during the civil war, he was one of 13 children and the family was well off until the war changed everything when his father was killed. He eventually made it to the US and built a business. The report further said that people around the city of Cincinnati probably know Nwankwo’s work – his construction company is the go-to contractor that has worked on several sites, including Fountain Square, the Freedom Center and Washington Park. Prior to the twins leaving the US, the Ebola outbreak was making headlines, as were attacks by the Boko Haram on schools – especially in northern Nigeria. The elder Nwankwo said he had “a lot of apprehension as they were getting ready to go, a lot of anxiety.” He however summoned the courage and allowed his sons to leave. On his experience, Noble was quoted in the report as saying: “It was kind of eye-opening to see how much you actually have to work to get a simple bucket of water, and how you actually have to use your own strength to carry it back and forth. And it’s actually pretty tough to hand-wash your clothes with that amount of water. You have to really manage it.” He added: “You have to be trekking all over the school just to get water to bathe with… Here you can just turn on the tap and there’ll be water flowing like it’s nothing. There, you’ll be struggling for it. Sometimes we would go without water for a couple of days.” Since returning back to the US, their dad said he’s already seen a change in his boys. “I feel that the experience is one that will live with them forever, and they will be forever changed – maybe not on the immediate, but long term.” The report said the twins agreed to what their dad said. “I appreciate the washing machine. I appreciate the running water. I appreciate the shower, so I don’t have to use a bucket of water in a bowl … I appreciate my parents a lot more because I realise how much – especially my dad – I really realise how much he had to do to get here,” Evan was quoted as saying. Besides the actual experience, they said their dad taught them a lot as well. “He’s taught me a lot, and he’s made me go through a lot to make me a better person, to make me a person that can just endure,” Evan said. I’m glad the elder Nwankwo was able to successfully teach his sons some harsh realities about life, it is also gratifying that it ended on a positive note; some have tried to do what he did but it ended in fiasco and the children come to hate their father for causing them to ‘suffer’ unnecessarily without understanding the underlying reasons. Life teaches that some people want things to always go their way, but the plain truth is we cannot have things our own way always. Which is why pursuing happiness is not at all the same as being happy, which is a fleeting feeling dependent on momentary circumstances. Happy times pass, because time passes. This is something we rarely grasp at first. The lifelong pursuit of happiness – on the other hand – is more elusive; it’s not based on a particular outcome.  What you are really pursuing is meaning – living a meaningful life.  It starts with your “why.”  (Why are you doing what you’re doing with your life?)  When your “why” is meaningful, ‘happiness’ follows. There will be times when things go so wrong that you barely feel alive. And there will also be times when you realise that being barely alive, on your own terms, is better than living a lifeless existence for 50 years on someone else’s terms. In other words, happiness comes most easily when you know what you’re doing, believe in what you’re doing, and love what you’re doing (and who you’re doing it with), regardless of how things turn out. Finally, life is too unpredictable for rigid expectations. When you stop predicting and expecting things to be a certain way, you can appreciate them for what they are. Ultimately, you will realise that life’s greatest gifts are rarely wrapped the way you expected. With a positive attitude and an open mind, you will find that life isn’t necessarily any easier or harder than you thought it was going to be; it’s just that “the easy” and “the hard” aren’t exactly the way you had anticipated, and don’t always occur when you expect them to. Most of the time, life delivers the experiences that are most helpful for our personal growth.  How do you know it’s the experience you need?  Because it’s the experience you’re having.  The only question is: Will you embrace it and grow, or fight it and fade? The key, of course, is to accept that not everything is meant to be.