Residents of Gowon Estate in Egbeda, Lagos State, complained of frequent attacks and urged the police to come to their aid. They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday that things have become so bad in the estate. Former Gowon Estate Community Development Association (CDA) Chairman Nathaniel Okoro said the beer parlour at the Car Wash on 51 Road was robbed with the patrons helpless. “On 34 Road, someone coming out of B Close, to go to work, was accosted around 5:30am and attacked. He sustained machete cuts while being robbed. “Similarly, on the same 34 Road, Orange Bar which experienced armed robbery in 2015 was again burgled on July 21. “Also, in a Customs block, on 51 Road, robbers entered a flat and robbed the occupants, which resulted in a fatality. “Two women going to work in the morning on a certain day were accosted at Ponle bus stop entrance and robbed,’’ Okoro said. The ex-CDA chairman said some residents going to Ponle bus stop were accosted on 41 Road by suspicious persons lurking under the coconut tree in front of a beer joint attached to a police block and robbed. Gowon Estate Community Mosque Chairman Alhaji Dauda Oyebanji said some residents were attacked and robbed a few months ago on 411 Road, A Close. He said an area on 411 Road, which houses a transformer, had become a free spot for youths to gather from 8:30pm to 10pm to smoke Indian hemp. Residents, he said, had cried out repeatedly over the menace without anything being done. “In most cases the smell of Indian hemp takes over flats, thereby making it impossible for occupants to breathe properly,’’ he said. The community leader said: “On 121 Road, the security personnel were tied up at gunpoint and some houses on the road robbed. “All over the estate, mechanics and motorcycle operators have taken over the roads, while road users are left at their mercy. Whatever space is left is taken over by dealers of fairly-used cars. “Shanty shops litter the whole place and are converted into sleeping quarters at night by people whose characters or identities we do not know. “The point is, the bona fide occupants of the estate are no longer sure of the security of their lives and property.’’ Oyebanji said. Contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a deputy superintendent, said residents should organise their internal security. Said he: “Every estate all over the country organises private security. Gowon Estate residents should organise private security. “We all live in estates and there are people in charge of estate management, who we pay security levy to. Alternatively, people should organise private security to patrol the estate. “It is just like asking the police to guard everybody’s house. It’s a different issue if the estate is making arrangement for a police post in the estate or requesting increase in manpower. “We should not make this an issue as it is a general problem. Also, if there are beer parlours in the estate which hoodlums are using as hideouts, who authorised the beer parlours to operate in the estate?’’ Elkana said the estate management should sit with the Divisional Police Officer to discuss the areas where there are gaps and see how the gaps can be filled. “If the DPO feels there is an area which the command headquarters needs to address, she will contact us,’’ he added.