A student journalist, Ikulajolu Adesola, is the president of the of National Association of Mass Communication Students, Adekunle Ajasin University chapter (NAMACOS AAUA). Ikulajolu emerged alongside Kieribo Esther, who was  elected the vice president. Ikulajolu is a reporter with CAMPUSLIFE as well as a student of Mass Communication. Similarly, Akeju Samson was elected the social director. Ohwofasa Dorcas clinched the welfare director’s office. Idowu Ridwan will represent the department at the Students Union Representative Council (SRC). Ogunsanmi Kolade also won the faculty’s SRC seat to represent the 200-Level. Those elected unopposed included Boluwaji Emmanuel Temitope (general-secretary), Onikuro Tobiloba (assistant general secretary), Harrison Ayoleyi (financial secretary), Adeboye Mary Folayemi (treasurer),Olubodun Samson (sport director), and Abdulwasiu Habeebullahi (PRO). In an interview with CAMPUSLIFE, Ikulajolu said he had plans to transform the association. He said: “I have great interest in building the minds of students. I want to serve them with keen interest that will build their mind, capacity and widen their horizon about certain things.” He added: “I want to engage the students in activities that would build them morally, academically and socially for the future. “As communication students, there is a distinction attached to our names and we must live up to that standard. I want to discover, develop and deploy lots of talents and as well connect them,” he said. He further expressed his confidence in the ability of his executive to deliver. “It is actually never easy putting different people together to pilot the affairs of an association but once unity is adopted, it will be easy. “Teamwork is what would help us, but along side, my executive members must be honest and ready to serve. I want them to keep to their plans and work more for the students.” Ikulajolu’s co-contestant Omolola Omowumi, who is also the outgoing vice- president, congratulated the President-elect. She said as a young woman, her intention to contest would spur others. She said: “I think I was able to bring back the dead spirit in the female students because the only female president we ever had was Mrs Alero Benson, who contetsted in 2014,  but later went on to become a lecturer.’’ She reiterated her commitment and willingness to cooperate with the incoming executive. “My advice to them is that they should fulfill their promises, if not all. They  should not forget God who gave them the opportunity. I don’t think there’s any way I can influence the association but if my help is needed I’m always available. I promise to give them my support and pay my dues when necessary,” she said.