Being the most popular digital currency, Bitcoin already has found its feet to be the futuristic mode of online transactions in a number of countries. Nigeria is one of those countries that are at the center front when it comes to using Bitcoin as a transaction currency. Due to the availability of several blockchain companies all over the country, people are able to easily access various cryptocurrency services including bitcoin. What is the Best Place to Buy Bitcoin in Nigeria? There are a number of platforms where one can buy Bitcoin in Nigeria, over the past four years there has been astronomical growth in the cryptocurrency market. This has led to the establishment of several OTC Bitcoin Trading Platforms; according to Google Trends, Nigeria is one of the top countries in Africa where Bitcoin is highly popular. The presence of many cryptocurrency service providers has brought healthy competition in the market; as a result, some platforms have introduced new payment options to counter the competition. The recent one being the use of gift cards, iTunes, etc; which allows customers to buy Bitcoin with Gift Card. Some of the most popular OTC Bitcoin Trading Platforms in Nigeria are the following; BONUS: Trading Bitcoin and Get 0.0001 Bitcoin Bonus Instantly!   LocalBitcoins If you are the type who prefers to keep Bitcoin transactions private, this is the platform to use, with its in-person transaction protocol you can buy or sell Bitcoin without any security worries. It is one of the famous Bitcoin platforms based in Nigeria and one can easily buy Bitcoin in exchange for cash deposits. Nairax This is also another platform that has been widely used in Nigeria since its launch in 2015. Like most crypto platforms you can easily buy Bitcoin by either paying in hard cash (perfect money) or a wire transfer through a bank account. It claims to be the largest Bitcoin exchange platform in Nigeria. Remitano Is also a widely used crypto platform in Nigeria, it originated in Vietnam and has been adopted by several African countries. Like any other platform, it carries Bitcoin transactions in exchange for money. All you have to do is select a market, fill in your Bitcoin address details and wait for the system to do the rest; it supports BCH/ETH/USD as well. CoinCola This is probably the best OTC Bitcoin Trading Platform that you can use to buy Bitcoin in Nigeria. This crypto platform has some out-of-the-box features, compared to other platforms you can say it is the most efficient and among the highly secured. One thing that is quite impressive about this platform is that it supports person-to-person (P2P) transactions. This ensures that all customers who are using the platform are protected from all possible fraudulent activities. That is not all, customers using this platform can also buy Bitcoin with Gift Card. This can be a good way to handle your crypto transactions, especially when avoiding the extra transactional charges that may come along with bank transactions. And it charges as low as 0.7% as a transaction fee, less than any other available OTC platform in Nigeria. Looking at it from a different angle, you can also use this amazing feature to get rid of all the gift cards filling up your space. CoinCola supports a variety of gift cards, examples include Google Play Gift Card, Amazon Gift Card, iTunes Gift Card, just to name a few. As one of the newest OTC Bitcoin Trading Platform, CoinCola should definitely be on top of your list. This is especially if you are new to Bitcoin and anything related to cryptocurrency, Coincola has an educative database that offers basic education on everything you need to know about cryptocurrency. With CoinCola you can easily carry out all Bitcoin transactions within 5 minutes, several market options are also available on the platform, the most recently added is EOS. You can buy or sell Bitcoin in local Nigerian currency, this can save you the hustle of currency exchange. BONUS: Buy Bitcoin in Nigeria Now and Get 0.0001 Bitcoin Bonus Instantly.  How to buy bitcoin in Coincola? For you to buy Bitcoin in Nigeria or sell them through CoinCola you must have a CoinCola account. Creating an account takes less than three minutes, simply visit https://www.coincola.com, tap the ‘Sign Up’ option and fill in your details. The system will require to confirm some information as a security measure to keep your account secure. To buy Bitcoin go to the CoinCola OTC page and select your preferred Bitcoin currency and the method you wish to use as payment. Check the available advertisements and click the one with the highest score, to view more trade options click the  ‘BUY BTC’ button.  The Buy Bitcoin in Nigeria Page on CoinCola Note that it very important to go through the terms of trade before initiating one, after familiarizing with all the terms key in the amount you wish to buy and click on ‘Buy Now.’ Check Today’s Bitcoin Price in Naira and Make Your First Bitcoin Purchase.  