Former governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, exercised his constitutional power of the prerogative of mercy just a week before he left office on May 29, 2019. He granted amnesty to some convicts in the state prisons. His then attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Seun Abimbola, confirmed that 49 convicts benefited. A lawyer and former staff of the Oyo State Ministry of Justice, Yewande Oyediran, who was convicted over the killing of her husband on February 2, 2016, was one of the beneficiaries. Her case at the time went viral and was a topic of discussion for a long time, probably because a life was lost and the accused is a lawyer. It is not unusual for people to assume that lawyers are probably more careful about their actions given what they know about the law and justice. Having then been convicted on a case of manslaughter that was pleaded by her defence team, as against the murder charge by the prosecution, she was sentenced to seven years in jail. It was curious that she got pardoned by the ex-governor a week before leaving office, not because the public doubts the constitutional exercise of the former governor’s right for the prerogative of mercy but the facts of her case. A life was lost, her charges for manslaughter instead of murder which we see as enough reprieve and the pleas for leniency for her as a first offender by her lawyer which helped to get the judge give her a verdict of seven years in jail. Already she had served about half of her sentence as the judge ruled that the years be counted from her day of arrest in 2016. We believe that in the words of Lois McMaster Bujold, “The dead cannot cry for justice, it is the duty of the living to do so for them”.  The former Attorney-General in Oyo State came out in defence of his former principal by insisting the amnesty involved 48 other inmates. We do not doubt or contest the number of inmates, but when a life is involved as in the lady’s case, and given that she was a staff of the state ministry of justice before her crime, it is not unusual for the living to feel that in a country where influence-peddling, especially by those with financial and or political power is so potent, the dead Mr. Oyelowo might have lost out and he can’t appeal. While we acknowledge the powers inherent in holding certain positions in government, we insist that cases like this must be handled with utmost caution and a deep sense of responsibility to align with the words of Benjamin Franklin that, “Justice will not be served until those unaffected are as outraged as those who are”. A seven-year jail term out of which the convict had served half the term is not too long for the crime under reference – manslaughter. The speed with which she was granted amnesty, given that a life was lost tastes sour in the mouth and sends multiple signals about a variety of things in a country with very weak systems. The life that was lost seems to have been given little or no consideration by the action of the governor. Again, the former attorney-general seems to have tilted towards the executive, leaving bare his own constituency – the judiciary –  that had given a ruling considered lenient, even though he was doing his job. There have been rising cases of domestic violence which often end in one spouse killing the other, especially on accusations of infidelity. This action by the former governor, even if in exercise of his powers at the time seems not very judicious. His action seems too insensitive to the rights of the victim who also has rights as a citizen of the state and a human being. We plead with all those in power to judiciously exercise such in the interest of all for a more just and egalitarian society. There is no alternative to justice for a more peaceful and equitable society.