Organised Labour made up of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) has written the federal government warning against staggered implementation of the new national minimum wage, describing it as divisive and catastrophic. Labour is also concerned about the stalemate in the negotiation between the federal government, represented by a technical committee and the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council over the method to use for the consequential adjustment for over officer already earning above N30, 000. While the workers representatives are asking for a 30 percent adjustment for officer on grade level 7 to 14 and 25 percent for officers on grade level 15 to 17, the government team is offering 9.5 percent across board. The government has since issued a circular directing the immediate commencement of the implementation of the new wage, while negotiation on the consequential adjustment continues. In a letter to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and signed by the President of the NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba and his TUC counterpart, Comrade Quadri Olaleye entitled “re-issue of Negotiation of Relativity/ Consequential Adjustment of Salaries Arising from the National Minimum Wage of N30, 000”, the two labour centres asked the government to reconvene the technical committee with immediate effect. The letter reads: “We bring to you the warm compliments of the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress as well as wish to refer you to the letter of the Joint National Public Service Negotiating Council dated 16/07/19 and referenced JNPSNC/TUS/VOL.V/402 on the stalemated discussion between the Council and the Government on the relativity/ consequential adjustment of salaries arising from the national minimum wage of N30, 000 per month. We would wish to express our concern and dismay about this needless stalemate. “We would wish to commence this letter by first commending Mr. President for setting up this committee in which we all had confidence to expeditiously work out the modalities for relativity and any other consequential effect that may arise from the new national minimum wage. “Our optimism was hinged on the fact that this would not be the first time we would be having this type of committee. We are however worried by this stalemate, and must in all honesty, point out that what the government is offering is far too small to be acceptable. “We recall that in the immediate past exercise, 53 per cent relativity was used across board. The resort therefore to unnecessary obduracy by the government’s team is neither helpful nor reflective of precedence. “The option of a staggered implementation conveyed in a press statement by the Chairman of the Salaries and Wages Commission is similarly not in good faith, for the notion of staggered implementation is both divisive and catastrophic. “It is important to note that the national minimum wage has always been implemented holistically in acknowledgement of the fact that we all go to the same market. “In the light of this and the need to head off a major industrial crisis, we would urge you to do all that is necessary to ensure that the meeting of the Committee is reconvened with NLC and TUC. As we await your necessary action, please accept the assurances of our highest esteem.”