“A tonic is something, sometimes a medicine, that makes you feel better or restores you to health” (https://www.vocabulary.com/dictionary/tonic).  The Cambridge Dictionary gives two definitions for tonic: “[ C ] a liquid medicine that has the general effect of making you feel better rather than treating a particular health problem that you might have” and “[ S ] informal, something that makes you feel stronger or happier”. A toxin is defined by The Cambridge Dictionary as “a poisonous substance, esp. one that is produced by bacteria and causes disease”.  “Poisons are substances that cause death, injury or harm to organisms” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poison). A tonic appetite, passion, or emotion would produce the effects of a tonic in the  environment (family, school, workplace, business, faith community, institution, establishment, society, country, world). A toxic appetite, passion, or emotion would produce the effects of a toxin in the environment (family, school, workplace, business, faith community, institution, establishment, society, country, world). The appetites, passions, and emotions always have an effect that is more than personal, private, local, focal, limited, temporary, or temporal.  There is always a ripple effect, a chain reaction, an aftermath.  With the precision of divine plan, the effects also play like a boomerang. Our own and other people’s appetites, passions, and emotions chiefly determine our experience of life.  Tonic appetites lead us to experience good.  Toxic appetites lead us to experience evil.  Tonic passions contribute good to the world. Toxic passions contribute evil to the world. Tonic emotions are a pleasure.  Toxic emotions are a displeasure. Unfortunately, the appetites, passions, and emotions could become like destructive, contagious cancers, destroying society, reversing the gains of civilization, and wasting human lives. Part of what it takes to mature in life is developing our appetites, passions, and emotions.  Metaphorically, our appetites, passions, and emotions could become like leaven in the dough of society:  enhancing human relations, developing society, progressing civilization.  Metaphorically, our appetites, passions, and emotions could become like salt in food, enabling people to enjoy the goodness, the beauty, and the fullness of life.  Metaphorically, our appetites, passions, and emotions could become like light in darkness, cancelling the pains, miseries, ignorance, limitations, and vulnerabilities of human life.  This is good news. The difference between tonic and toxic appetites, passions, and emotions is the difference between peace and chaos, light and darkness, progress and doom, life and death, love and hate, and good and evil.  Thus parents do need to support their children in maturing.  Leaders do need to support their followers in maturing. We can, on a philosophical plane, view human beings as swimming in a sea of appetites, passions, and emotions.  The sea has waves which can be pacific or rough or even violent and the swimmers may enjoy their swim or struggle to stay alive.  We each contribute to what other persons experience in life  –  bodily, mentally, and spiritually. It is time for examination of conscience.  How tonic are my appetites?  How toxic are my appetites? What are the things I love or want or need and how do they affect other persons?  How tonic are my passions?  How toxic are my passions? What are my goals and plans and actions and how do they affect other persons? How tonic are my emotions? How toxic are my emotions?  What are my dispositions, responses, and reactions and how do they affect other persons? How am I tonic and how am I toxic? This is a question that is very relevant for our world today and always. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635