2,600 Nigerian are currently benefitting from the Federal Government’s N-Power skill acquisition training in the hospitality industry. This was disclosed by the President of the Institute of Tourism Professionals (ITP), Chief Abiodun Odusanwo. Odusanwo said the N-Power project was going on so well and running in 36 centres across the country. The N-Power hospitality programme, which kicked off on May 28, this year, has centres in every state of the federation. He spoke further: “It is a one-year programme, consisting three months training and nine months industrial attachment. “It is an N-Power programme which covers a number of sectors, including construction industry, technology, agriculture and hospitality industry. “ITP  is the awarding body for the sector. We sought and got the concurrence of the Federal Government for the programme to include the hospitality industry among the sectors. In the past, they have done for construction whereby they train welders, artisans in different areas, masons, painters and so on. “So, through our efforts, it made them to include hospitality and the programme is now available in the 36 states.” Speaking on the level of acceptance of the programme and participation, Odusanwo said: “We have over 2600 beneficiaries throughout the country. There are at least two centres in every state. Some have four, some five. It is actually bringing billions of naira to the industry because each learner is paid a stipend of N10,000 per month; each training centre is paid to train the learners. Each centre receives the consumables free of charge to use in doing the practical learning. Each beneficiaries will receive the tools relevant to their trades after the three months of the training; and the learners do not pay anything. They even get one free meal per day.” Odusanwo said the N-Power training in the hospitality industry would improve the number of skilled and trained personnel in the industry. He said: “It will actually improve the level and number of trained persons in the industry, particularly in the five areas covered by the project: bartending, catering, cakes and pastry making, mixology and house-keeping. “So, if you look at all those areas, these are five key areas that the hospitality industry needs a lot of manpower, particularly at the entry level. Now, what this industry does is that the issue of people not being able to run for the programme because they don’t have the money is taken care of. The issue of I do not have money for transport to attend training has been taken care of because they are given a monthly stipend to attend. They are actually given food once a day during the programme. “Also the issue of I have done the programme, I cannot set up on my own is taken care of since they get tools after training. All these are free to the beneficiaries because we actually pay  the centres to train them. It costs them nothing because it is under the government’s N-Power programme.” The N-Power training is an economic  programme of the Federal Government to create employment and social development . N-Power addresses the challenge of youth unemployment by providing a structure for large scale and relevant work skills acquisition and development while linking its core and outcomes to fixing inadequate public services and stimulating the larger economy. The modular programmes under N-Power will ensure that each participant will learn and practise most of what is necessary to find or create work. The N-Power Volunteer Corp involves a massive deployment of 500,000 trained graduates who will assist to improve the inadequacies in our public services in education, health and civic education. Some of these graduates will also help in actualising Nigeria’s economic and strategic aspirations of achieving food security and self-sufficiency.