The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) yesterday inducted the Acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as an associate member of the institute. At a brief ceremony to mark the conferment yesterday at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Uduk was honoured with the beating of the closing gong for the stock market. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr. Dapo Adekoje said the institute takes the issue of professional standards and ethical behaviour of its members seriously warning that erring members are always investigated and disciplined as necessary. He explained that the principal activities of the institute include provision of examinations leading to qualifications as securities and investments professionals, organising seminars and continuing professional education courses for members and practitioners to improve standards of professional competence. In her remarks, Uduk expressed delight at becoming a member of CIS, a highly revered body of securities & investment experts, whose pivotal role it is to maintain high standards in the stockbroking profession in Nigeria. “I am also honoured to be inducted into this great institute and hereby pledge to abide by the ethics of this noble profession to further the development of the capital market. With the support of the Institute and other market stakeholders, I look forward to working with the Institute to move the Nigerian capital market to the next level where it would contribute positively to the growth of the economy,” Uduk said. She pointed out that as the only professional body in Nigeria empowered to conduct qualifying examinations and provide professional qualifications for stockbrokers, the CIS ensures the creation and maintenance of high standards in the stockbroking profession in Nigeria. She urged stockbrokers to continue to uphold the tenets of the noble profession and strive to contribute to the growth of their organisation and the capital market. She pointed out that by promoting and protecting the interests of the profession through prescribing and upholding the highest standard of service and integrity, the institute contributes highly to the attainment of a capital market of our dreams. She said the strong collaboration between the CIS and the SEC has led to the achievement of tremendous results over the years, especially in deepening the capital market. She noted that one of such collaborative initiatives led to the development of a stand-alone capital market studies curriculum to be introduced at the basic and secondary schools levels of education in Nigeria. “The initiative, which is in partnership with other stakeholders, is one of the cardinal objectives of the Capital Market Master Plan, aimed at inculcating a culture of financial literacy and boosting investment education in Nigeria” Uduk said. According to her, the strength of character and service innovation of Nigerian professionals is one of the yardsticks with which the Nigerian capital market is benchmarked by the investing community. The way and manner capital market professionals conduct businesses with clients will affect how the  market is perceived. “At the Commission, we recognize that the Institute is a critical stakeholder in the capital market, and therefore, should strive to continue to maintain the highest level of professional standard towards ensuring that our market remains manned by the most competitive professionals in the world”. 