do State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said that the next governorship poll will be a referendum on his achievements in the first term. He predicted success for himself and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying the people will vote for continuity. Obaseki emphasised that he had served the Southsouth state with love, care, faith and fidelity, stressing that the people are aware of his impact across the sectors. He said the party is not engulfed in crisis, dismissing reports about rifts between him and the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, as a ruse. He pointed out that “all the structures put in place by our leader, Comrade Adams Oshionhole, are being maintained.” Obaseki said he enjoyed the support of Edo APC stakeholders who are proud of the fact that the state is being governed by a progressive leadership. The governor spoke with reporters in Lagos at the weekend on his administration and priorities between now and the next election. He said if performance is a critical factor in re-election, he will win a second term. Obaseki said his feats in the last two and half years have brought more respect and popularity to the APC in Edo State. He stressed:”Our strength lies in what we have done in less than three years. In basic education, we have witnessed transformation. Other countries are coming to learn from our example in Edo. “In infrastructure, we have accomplished a lot. I am being referred to as ‘Governor wake up and see’ because you get to an environment and you see new things. We have embarked on institutional reforms and agricultural revolution. Our people appreciate our work and our worth.” Also, the party chairman, Anselm Ojezua, said there is no crisis in the party, explaining that the minor disagreement over the inauguration of the House of Assembly will soon be over. He said party leaders were working round the clock to foster understanding, peace and harmony. Ojezua said the reconciliation will work because the two divides are part and parcel of the ruling party. However, he chided the House of Representatives for threatening to hijack the functions of the House of Assembly. He said the move will fail because Edo State is not a colony to be oppressed. Ojezua said the 12 members of the House of Assembly who have been inaugurated can form a quorum and perform lawful parliamentary functions. The Solicitor-General, Oluwole Iyamu, shed light on the litigations triggered by the House of Assembly crisis. He said:”There are three cases in court. The first is in the Federal High Court instituted by the Clerk of the House of Assembly.  The defendants are the Police Inspector General, SSS, National Working Committee. An injunction has been issued restraining the defendants from interfering with the House of Assembly. “The second case was instituted by the 12 aggrieved lawmakers who claimed that the inauguration was unlawful. It is at the High Court, Benin. The interim injunction sought for was refused. “The third is the suit challenging the House of Representatives position.”