The African Union (AU) is set to send a high-powered delegation to the 2nd edition of the Trade with Africa Business Summit in Chicago. The delegation would be led by Ambassador Albert Muchanga, AU Trade Commissioner and Champion of Trade award recipient. Muchanga will deliver a resounding keynote address on AfCFTA. “According to the World Bank, U.S. controls 40% of global wealth and remains an important trade partner for Africa. “With manufacturing steadily shifting to Africa, the timing is right for U.S. business leaders to develop effective strategies towards the region particularly in the context of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and for Africa’s exporters to maximize the African Growth & Opportunity Act (AGOA). “The Trade with Africa Business Summit represents an effective platform to facilitate trade discussions and it provides a front row sit to business leaders looking to engage, build partnerships as well as educate themselves on the growing economic impact Africa is having on the global market,” said Toyin Umesiri, CEO Nazaru LLC and Founder of the Trade with Africa Business Summit. The summit brings together global business leaders, policy experts, investors, entrepreneurs, development agencies, financial institutions and supply chain and logistics experts geared towards increasing trade with Africa. This year’s event holds at the McDonald’s Hamburger University – Oak Brook on August 1st and 2nd with Press Conference and VIP reception scheduled for the evening of July 31st. This year’s event would be marked with powered side-line meetings, public speeches, panel discussions, workshops and direct engagement between investors and government representatives and it positions the Chicago Metropolitan area and the State of Illinois as a favorable destination for Africa’s business & political leaders looking to create new trade partnerships in the U.S. Confirmed speakers include: Ousmane Ba, Ambassador of Mauritania to the United States of America; Ambassador Albert Muchanga, Trade Commissioner – African Union and Mrs. Kanayo Awani, Managing Director Intra-African Trade Initiatives, African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) – Cairo, Egypt. Others are:  Colonel William Wyatt, Director African Studies – U.S. Army War College Carlisle, Pennsylvania; Dr. Levi Uche Madueke Head, Africa’s Strategic Partnerships Bureau of the Chairperson, African Union Commission (AUC); Dylan Piatti, Sr. Chief of Staff Deloitte and Chairman E-Commerce Forum Africa; Dr. Andrew S. Nevin, Chief Economist -PWC Africa; LaTaunya Darden, Business Development Expert, U.S. Export Import Bank (EXIM); Shakira Motan, Trade Commissioner, South African Consulate – Chicago; Michael Mugisha CNBC Africa – Senior Producer & News Anchor and Edward T. Hightower, Author of Motoring Africa: Sustainable Automotive Industrialization. Theme of the 2019 event is: Growing U.S. – Africa Trade, Trade Financing & Developing Africa’s Supply Chain. The event is sponsored by Nazaru LLC., Westrock Coffee and the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) in partnership with several other organisations. 