THE 12-man Panel set up by the House of Representatives to wade into the crisis rocking the Bauchi State House of Assembly has commenced reconciliatory efforts. The Committee headed by Hon. Musa Sarkin Adar commenced collection of complaints from aggrieved lawmakers and critical stakeholders in the State on Monday. Speaking during a courtesy visit on Governor Bala Muhammed by members of the panel, Adar said that the House of Representatives has given them the mandate to look into the event that led to the state having ‘two speakers’ and the subsequent closure of the House for about a month. He added his committee members will gather information to help determine a resolution capable of bringing peace to the house. “We are from different geopolitical zones, party lines and tribes, we promise to do justice to the issues of the parliament. Our concern is to make peace and consequently setting the state on progress lane. “With these, we want all aggrieved members or any party to tender their displeasure, either recent or old testimony between today and Wednesday,” he said The governor said: “As a parliamentarian, we are ashamed of the situation in the state, though politics is dynamic-some of the democratisation come with crisis, by this, we must always be loyal to the will of the people, we respect the autonomy of the parliament. “What happened in Bauchi is very regrettable but we are not going to preempt what you have come here for but give you all the support that is required. As far as we are concerned, there is only one house in Bauchi. “The election has been conducted and I was the one who signed the proclamation and the election was held with the symbol of authority in the house not outside and within the timeline. “Of course, some people were excluded, it is very sad for people who are representing different constituencies to be excluded from discharging their parliamentary exercise. “We appreciate your coming. Definitely, some people have been expecting your arrival. My self and deputy are parliamentarians, we have been to the Senate and we are today at the helms of affairs of Bauchi today.” tWO Speakers emerged at the Bauchi Assembly inauguration on June 20. 13 out of 31 members of the Assembly elected Hon. Abubakar Suleiman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) representing Ningi Constituency as Speaker of the Bauchi House of Assembly. Other 18 aggrieved APC lawmakers outwitted held a parallel election outside the Chamber of the House to elect the former Speaker Damina after they were reportedly prevented from gaining access by security personnel.