It is indeed most alarming that Nigeria is reported to lose at least $25 billion annually as a result of criminal oil bunkering, piracy and other illegal businesses on the country’s territorial waters. Coming from Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, a two-term governor of oil-producing Rivers State (2007 -2015), immediate past Minister of Transportation and now minister-designate in President Muhammadu Buhari’s forthcoming cabinet, this revelation cannot be dismissed out of hand. Speaking at a reception and book launch organised in his honour by agencies and stakeholders in the Nigerian maritime industry, Amaechi described oil bunkering merchants in Nigeria as the 7th largest oil producers in Africa because of the sheer magnitude of their operations. Despite her immense natural, mineral and human resource endowment, Nigeria is currently rated as one of those countries with the highest concentration of poverty-stricken citizens in the world. Quite apart from the chronic infrastructure deficit the country suffers in critical areas, including road, rail and water transportation, as well as electricity supply, poverty indices in the country as reflected in the degree of hunger and malnutrition, lack of potable water, prevalence of avoidable diseases, insufficiency of decent and wholesome shelter, illiteracy and ignorance for the vast majority of the people remain unacceptably high for a country with Nigeria’s immense potential. The country most obviously needs all the resources she can muster to meet these and other challenges, including properly equipping and motivating its military, police and other security agencies to contain the current grave threats to the continued stability and cohesion of the polity.  The minister-designate is right when he notes that if the money lost to bunkering and other illegal maritime activities were pumped into the economy, the problem of poverty in the country would be more effectively contained and the prospects for prosperity boosted. It would also help to reduce the rate of Nigeria’s growing indebtedness to fund developmental projects. It is, however, heartening that theFederal Ministry of Transportation has taken concrete steps to address the situation as Mr. Amaechi revealed that a maritime security contract of $195 million was awarded in 2018 to HSLI, an Israeli firm, to train and equip Nigerian security personnel to effectively check oil bunkering and other illegal activities in the maritime sector. It will also help to better secure shipping firms as well as vessels calling on Nigerian shores, which currently expend considerable amounts on procurement of escort services. The signing of the piracy bill by President Buhari, if properly implemented, will also hopefully help ensure Nigeria’s exit from the category of countries with the highest frequency of piracy attacks in Africa. These, in our view, are more transparent, accountable and effective approaches to contain the problem than the recourse of the immediate past administration to award humongous contracts to ex-militants and other groups with dubious capacity to police the country’s oil pipelines. Of course, such contracts were not accounted for and they had little mitigating impact on the illegal oil bunkering business, which continued to flourish. However, we call on the Federal Government to urgently rise to its responsibility of utilising its coercive capacity to restore order to the country’s territorial waters. The oil bunkering and other criminalities take place quite openly and brazenly in what can be described as an ungoverned, corruption- ridden space. Unfortunately, the military and security agencies deployed to enforce adherence to the law in these areas are sometimes themselves reportedly deeply entrenched in these illegal activities from which they reap stupendous pecuniary benefits. It is time for the requisite authorities to take decisive ameliorative and punitive actions.