SIR: Many cities across the continent are currently experiencing a population growth rate that is considerably faster than previously projected. This speed means that many of these cities are unable to develop the infrastructure required to support the population size it currently has. One of the reasons for this is growth is the rise in mobility platforms and services. In the last few months alone, three of Nigeria’s foremost mobility companies, Oride, Gokada and Max, have raised almost $100 million in capital as they deepen their local operations. The rise of mobility solutions providers has been a welcome innovation as they attempt to provide solutions to the inadequate public transport infrastructure available. Lagos is an example of such a city and is estimated to grow by almost 100% in the next 25 years. According to recent statistics released by the United Nations, there is an influx of 87 people per hour daily into Lagos – the largest in the world. The city’s rapid development and population expansion continues to place significant strains on its infrastructure – a problem that has existed for the last few decades. An inadequate “formal” public transport system makes congestion one of Lagos’s most immediate problems as the city loses over N42bn annually in productivity to traffic In the face of a growing population and inadequate infrastructure, innovations like the ones being offered by mobility platforms and service providers are going to be required in order for the state to cater for its growing population.  Other cities in Africa and across the world with similar growth rates have benefitted from similar private sector-led innovations and interventions bolstered by governments who created enabling business environments for these innovations to thrive, to grow and for their impact to be felt by the people who needed it the most. We must ask ourselves if Lagos is really open for business and ready to unlock the potential it has to generate the kind of revenue it needs to truly live up to its potential as a mega city. A video that recently went viral on social media shows touts, or agberos, as they are popularly called, acting on orders from trade associations, harassing the riders and passengers of ORide, Gokada and MAXng in a bid to extort money from them. Accounts of harassment by local touts are not a new occurrence. Indeed, there have been multiple incidents of touts harassing market traders, shop owners and other small businesses operating legally in Lagos. But as these accounts of intimidation by local youths- become a frequent occurrence; with multiple incidents of harassment and extortion, there is a critical need for this issue – now trending across numerous social media platforms; to be addressed by the government. When we have incidents like the harassment and hooliganism displayed by touts who claim to work on behalf of the unions, which threaten the confidence- both of entrepreneurs and investors alike as well as the safety of riders and passengers, we have to wonder how the government intends to restore the confidence of these investors who would be right to deduce, based on recent happenings- that Lagos is indeed closed for business- their business. In the June 1 video where he articulates his vision for Lagos State, His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Governor of Lagos State, emphasized that Lagos is indeed open for business. This is welcome news for investors looking for an investment destination and any entrepreneurs looking to create dynamic innovations and the jobs associated with starting a new business. But in order for the governor and his Deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat to turn these words into action, they will need to ensure that local agberos and unions do not close the very doors that have been proclaimed open by their threats and harassment of business owners across the state- including but not limited to the mobility industry. Put simply, if Lagos is truly open for business, then its body language needs to change – and fast.