Entrepreneurial skill development is as important as water is to human life. Gone are the days when employers go about looking for potential graduates for employment. The reason why many technicians earn more than most university graduates with good grades is because technicians have practical know-how that many graduates cannot boast of. Here are reasons why you should consider acquiring a skill: * Self-employment: A skillful person is a self-employed person and a self-employed person can never go hungry. A skillful person enjoys benefits a person working in an office won’t have access to. For example, a person with skills can spend their money as they like because they are not subjected to higher authorities. They also can decide to work from home because they are their own bosses and many more benefit that an employed person can’t have. *To break away from white collar jobs: White collar jobs these days are scare and the pay are less compared to the work load an individual is expected to put in. People with skills don’t go hunting for white collar jobs because their skills are better off to most white collar jobs. *People with skills are self-reliant and independent: Most skillful individuals cater for themselves and some even go as far as seeing themselves though higher institutions without the financial involvement of their parents. This makes them self-reliant and when they are graduates, they are more exposed to stand out in the labor market using their skills as they don’t depend on anyone for their daily living they even go as far as sponsoring family members. *Diverse job opportunities: Have you ever seen someone who acquires many skills alone? Such person is classified as someone who is up and doing. Those who have many skills stand the chance of gaining more jobs from many establishments. People who have many skills are being poached by many companies. They are in hot demand because of the skills they possess. *To generate employments: There will be a lot of jobs generated for citizens if they are well equipped with skills. This is why it is necessary for government to organise skill acquisition programmes for the masses. The informal market filled with fashion designers, makeup artistes and many more employ more people can the formal sector can. .* Reduction in crime: Research has shown youths are mostly involved in crimes. People begin to think of many dirty activities they will do to make money when they do not have anything to do. But with acquired skill by an individual he/she works and makes money from his/her acquired skill. This will make him/her to feel comfortable.  Also the skills acquired by the citizens who indulge in crime can be used to win over those involved in such crimes.