In the entertainment world home and abroad, celebrities and international fashion labels go together. Most celebrities like to sport particular brands of the world’s leading fashion houses and their devotion to these brands are well known. Over time, some of these celebrities have been so associated with these brands that their personal brands as celebrities have almost become synonymous with these fashion labels. The celebrities, who sport these wear, spend thousands of naira and dollars on bespoke wear, apparels or handbags. Check out the gallery to find out which celebrities are die-hard fans and can’t get enough of the most famous brands in the world! Gucci Davido There is no celebrity more obsessed with the luxury Gucci designer than Omo Baba Olowo (OBO), Davido. He recently shared some pictures of his shopping spree in a Gucci store. Wizkid Gucci Wizkid is one of those young stars who set the fashion pace and holds the future of fashion in his hands. Wizkid is a big fan of the Italian fashion house-Gucci But Davido and Wizkid are not the only celebrities who dig Gucci. Mr P is also known to favour the brand. Timaya Vuitton Louis Vuitton big and oversized bag is a feminine label but it has a unisex, masculine appeal sometimes and it is no surprise that superstar singer, Timaya, is one of their fans. Linda Prada: Billionaire blogger, Linda Ikeji, sports expensive designer bags at every opportunity! Apart from the fact that she’s not only a known fan of Chanel and Prada, she also likes to carry other expensive designer handbags. Linda’s love for good but expensive bags is second to none. Tiwa Fendi: Tiwa Savage’s big personality is the perfect fit for Fendi’s wears. She’s one of the funkiest female celebrities currently in the entertainment world. Although numerous celebrities rock Fendi designs but none more often than Tiwa Savage. She loves Fendi products like crazy. In the entertainment world home and abroad, celebrities and international fashion labels go together. Most celebrities like to sport particular brands of the world’s leading fashion houses and their devotion to these brands are well known. Over time, some of these celebrities have been so associated with these brands that their personal brands as celebrities have almost become synonymous with these fashion labels. The celebrities, who sport these wear, spend thousands of naira and dollars on bespoke wear, apparels or handbags. Check out the gallery to find out which celebrities are die-hard fans and can’t get enough of the most famous brands in the world!