The latest device from the stable of Tecno Mobile, Tecno Pouvoir 3, is a device the combines software and hardware innovation with ultra-long lasting battery. With 5000mAh battery, it gives users an uninterrupted four days of usage on just one single charge. The unique selling point of the device  in the smartphone market is its long-lasting battery capacity, advanced security set-up,plus smooth performance, according to empirical experience. With the new Pouvoir 3, Tecno has  taken the Pouvoir experience to a whole new level by incorporating the latest  Artificial intelligence (AI)  technology, in addition to its monster-large, ultra long-lasting battery and pocket-friendly cost. Smartness Compared to Tecno Pouvoir 2, its predecessor, the new device – Tecno Pouvoir 3 – spots a 13MP front camera +13MP back camera enhanced by Artifical Intelligence (AI). The camera’s interface can detect a subject in the frame whether it’s an outdoor landscape, an indoor plate of food or a live subject, and automatically adjust the settings to produce the most beautiful version of the subject. It also has a wide-angle lens and an adjustable LED flash. The new device further combines AI technology with High Dynamic Range (HDR) technology to improve image quality in environments where there is poor lighting as well as environments with strong backlight.  The AI-based algorithm is also useful for its Face ID Unlocking system that ensures bank-level security within the smartphone. To further boost security, there is a Fingerprint Reader at the back. Speed With a Quad-core MT6739 processor, the high-performance Android 8.1, a smart HiOS 4.1 user interface plus a 32GB ROM + 2GB RAM, this smartphone has everything it needs to run smoothly for a long period of time, even when two or more apps are running at the same time. The sizeable RAM and ROM also help it run faster while creating plenty of space for videos, pictures and other files. The device flaunts a 6.2 inch super bright display and is encased in a glossy cover, with colour options such as city blue, midnight black and champagne gold available. In all, it’s a great device and it comes at a price that doesn’t hurt at all. No wonder they say Tecno is a device for Nigerians.