The Federal College of Education, Obudu in Cross River State, in affiliation with the University of Calabar, has matriculated 310 students for degree programmes for the 2018/2019 academic session. At the ceremony to mark the occasion, the Provost of the College, Dr. James Bassey Ejue praised the Federal Government for its commitment to education through regular payment of salaries, development of members of staff, provision of infrastructure and subsidised fees for students. Ejue, who said that through capital intervention, the college has received classroom and office furniture as well as upgrading of all the science and language laboratories, also revealed that the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) has donated 110 computer laptops to the school to help the institution to improve teaching and learning. While advising members of staff and students to justify the huge investments by putting the facilities to good use and producing quality teachers in all areas, he called on all stakeholders to work hard to take the college to enviable heights so that its graduates will be sought after by employers of labour. Dr. Ejue, who congratulated the 310 graduating students, however, pleaded that relevant authorities should increase the admission quota, especially for the reason that all their 13 degree programmes have gained full accreditation status by the Nigeria Universities Commission (NUC). The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Calabar, who was represented by the Dean of Faculty of Education, Prof. Simon Ibor Akpama, informed the students that the ceremony marked their formal initiation into the academic programmes of the university. The Vice-Chancellor advised them to be disciplined, diligent and committed to their academic works. He also advised them against vices such as vandalism, violence, drug abuse and drug addiction, cultism, robbery, prostitution and joining gang groups, among others, which would be inimical to their academic progress. He said the future of the country depended on them, even as he urged them not to disappoint those who saw them through their education. 