The connectivity pact between Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and the Customs of Benin Republic will boost trade facilitation, observers have said. But they are worried by the bad state of the Lagos-Seme Road, its numerous checkpoints and extortion of money from traders by security men, among others, which may impede the agreement, MUYIWA LUCAS writes. The euphoria in Nigeria and the Republic of Benin can be understood. For the first time, the West African neighbours have signed a bilateral connectivity agreement aimed at ensuring that the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and its Benin counterpart work together. The deal will also ensure trade facilitation between both countries and reduce trans-border crimes. NCS Comptroller-General Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), at the launch of the joint customs connectivity programme, charged stakeholders to declare their consignment honestly. “This will not only facilitate trade, but will also curb trans-border crimes.We had a challenge with language, but we have scaled that hurdle. This is a unique development for both countries. This system will weed out all false declarations. If you want your imports and exports to be treated fast, you must make honest declarations. This will bring an end to illicit trafficking,” Col. Ali declared at the launch, which held at the ECOWAS building in Seme. He added that the countries must tackle smuggling. For him, the actualisation of the programme has positioned the Customs of both countries to tell others at the World Customs Organisation (WCO) Meeting that “we are the first two customs administrations to achieve this even in the face of language and other challenges”. But what Ali will not tell the Customs at the WCO meeting is the impediments to the laudable feat. These include bad roads from Mile 2 to Seme border. Besides this are the activities of other security agencies, including the Customs and Immigration Service personnel, on the road. While Ali may feign ignorance of the extortion on this road, what he cannot deny is the parlous state of the road, because shortly after the event, he and his convoy  drove on the same road out of Seme. There is no gainsaying that economic activities on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway have been paralysed due to the bad road and checkpoints. The road, which is a major one that leads to Benin Republic and other West African countries, is riddled with gullies, making a journey of 35 minutes from Agbara to Badagry to last three hours. A trip to the Seme border to witness the launch by The Nation presented a first-hand experience. Not less than 22 checkpoints, manned by various security personnel dotted the stretch of the impassable portion of the road between Igboelerin and Seme Border. Earlier in the year, the former Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, decried the multiple checkpoints on Lagos-Badagry-Seme road. Amaechi, who spoke with reporters on arrival from a trip outside the country, expressed disappointment that before getting to the Nigerian border, a traveller would have to contend with 17 checkpoints manned by several security agencies, a  contrast with what he saw in the neighbouring Benin and Togo. “I asked at the regional meeting that why is it that we saw four checkpoints on the way to Togo from Benin. The security officer at Lome apologised, saying they usually had two checkpoints, but due to the approaching Nigerian elections, they increased the checkpoints to four,” he told reporters. Checkpoints everywhere The preponderance of security checkpoints on this road, according to an insider, is not unconnected to the inability of the country’s port system to accommodate the huge imports through the Nigerian waters. This included the dreaded Lagos Port roads that have remained a nightmare for operators. This development is said to have led to the diversion of many cargoes to neighbouring countries for onward movement into the country through the land border. By extension, there began the gradual return of more security agencies that did not have checkpoints on the route. Officers and men of the Nigeria Police, NCS, NIS, among others, now dot the land border road stretch of Lagos-Badagry Expressway. For Col. Ali, the checkpoints may be an embarrassment. This is because he had earlier ordered a drastic cut of them. For instance, before his directive, which reduced the number of Customs checkpoints to the three approved ones at Gbaji, Agbara and the last between Badagry and Mowo, there were over 30 checkpoints by the Customs alone. Before Col. Ali’s directive, Police mounted several checkpoints; NIS had no presence until the Ebola outbreak. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) had no stationary checkpoint then, but maintained a mobile stop-and-check.This reporter observed that the NIS, which is supposed to be stationed at the border only, now has about three checkpoints going to Seme and about five on the return route. Extortion The level of extortion on this road is unparalled. Along the road, security personnel make huge money daily, which in effect makes life difficult for commuters plying the axis. For instance, depending on the vehicle capacity and its content, a minimum of N300 is paid daily at each checkpoint. Upon the payment, the driver is issued a number which will later serve as his “gate pass” for a certain period, Once a new set of security personnel takes over the spot, the number is seen to have expired and another payment due. Returning from Seme, this reporter witnessed first-hand incidents where officials of the FRSC, who mounted checkpoints extorted money from motorists through a civilian proxy. When the driver of the Sienna vehicle in which The Nation rode refused to “cooperate” with the FRSC officials, he was asked to come down for checks and only allowed to go upon identifying himself as a retired policeman. He was later to inform his passengers that each vehicle pays the officials N200 per shift, which he said is usually two. Failure to pay leads to delay or arrest. There is also the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NAFDAC), Quarantine Service and some other uniformed agencies. The large numbers of community youths mounting under the guise of fixing the bad road just before Gbaji, also demand money from motorists. A cab operator between Igboelerin and Seme, who identified himself as Shakiru, told this reporter that heading to Seme is a child’s play compared to when coming to Lagos from Seme. “The troubles we face with these checkpoints on our way to Lagos from Seme is worse than when coming. This is why we charge N1,000 per head when returning to Lagos as against N500 when going to Seme,” Shakiru said. He said extortion on the way back to Lagos was the reason most vehicles carry illegal goods like rice and bales of used clothes, among others, to augment their earnings because whether they carry such goods or not, they must “settle” at all checkpoints along the corridor. Economic sabotage Already, fears of Nigeria being shortchanged in the collaboration are rife. A Customs licensed agent, who craved for anonymity for fear of being a target by others, told The Nation that while the Republic of Benin will maximise the benefits from the initiative to her fullest advantage, the same cannot be said of Nigeria. He based his submission on the state of the road and the extortion at the numerous checkpoints from Seme to Mile 2. “That road and the over 20 checkpoints mounted on it is a great disservice to business, the economy and the newly signed Connectivity agreement between the two countries. Benin will benefit fully while Nigeria will not. Go and see the state of Benin port access roads and the number of checkpoints on their port access road, then you will have a clear understanding of what I am talking about,” the clearing agent said. Connectivity concept The connectivity programme is a collaborative border management system that involves data exchange at Seme Border. The new system it is believed will help to achieve information and data exchange through an intermediate server managed by Webb Fontaine Nigeria Limited. The technical team said the system will involve information sharing and feedbacks from both ends. The Nigerian Trade Portal domiciled in Abuja was used to demonstrate the working of the syste. It shows how transit goods declaration made in the Cotonou Port could be assessed in Nigeria. Transit goods destined for Nigeria but landed in the port of Cotonou will have all relevant information about importer, nature of consignment, time of arrival, commodity code, commodity description, number of packages, marks, numbers and details about containers used.