A revolutionary media and marketing company, FlinkBox, is set to introduce a new incentive-based mobile advertising App designed to enhance engagement between brands and target consumers with the aim of boosting return on investment. In a rapidly growing sector, where mobile advertising is increasingly taking the lead from traditional and online media, the App named Revv is not only conceived to provide brands and marketers the opportunity to connect with consumers directly on their mobile phones, but to also generate analytics for brands; as a measure to strengthen brand insights, drive marketing, drive sales, and increase long-term profitability. According to the country manager of FlinkBox, George Ugbegua, “Revv goes beyond just creating awareness, it provides brands the opportunity to create consideration and conversion through their ad campaign. With Revv, brands have access to lead generation and consumer insight analysis report, which gives detailed analytics on individuals interested in the brand, product or services. Revv generates leads for products or services through ads and targets audience based on preferred language. “Revv is also equipped with the capacity to deepen direct engagement between brands and consumers through feedback mechanism, trend surveys or video-based advertising, which allows brands the opportunity to get the attention of the their target consumers and capture their interest on the go.” The App, developed in Germany, was designed to reward subscribers with monetary values through ad views, game participation, and brand or trend surveys participation. These subscribers, also known as “Brand Assessors”, are constantly incentivised monetarily as a payout for assessing brand campaigns. They also recruit friends through referral links to expand the base of the assessors. More than ever, brands now have the opportunity to communicate product and services to their target audience through mobile gadgets, while at the same time creating interest, fun and excitement for the consumers through financial incentives. Explaining further on the benefits of Revv, Ugbegua noted that with Revv “brands can place video based ads on the platform, carry out product survey and retarget consumers who show interest in their product or services through their ad campaign.” A unique thing with the Revv App when compared to other video Ad distribution networks is that, despite the various values and benefits it comes with, it is affordable and guarantees definite view on ads; simply a win-win. Designed to make mobile advertising convenient and rewarding to brands, two forms of reports are provided to brands that place adverts on the Revv platform. These are; ‘The basic report,’ which shows result summary of the ad campaign such as impressions, definite views, reach, demographics, location, etc. The other is the ‘Lead Generation Analytic Report,’ which is more insightful with detailed information on the perception of the ad, product and services.