National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents President Lucky Amiwero has said the Eighth National Assembly failed in its oversight function in the industry. According to him, the legislators failed to ensure that ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) obeyed extant laws. The legislators, he said, had powers to prevent corruption, ensure that funds are used as appropriated and insist that MDAs stay focused on their mandates. Most parastatals, he said, did not meet stakeholders’ expectations  that would have impacted on the economy. “The National Assembly has function of oversight but they did not do well in the last assembly as far as the maritime industry is concerned. “They were supposed to ensure that parstatals such as the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC) and all others worked in accordance with their laws. “For instance, NIMASA spent so much time and money organising conferences and seminars as if that was its major function. We expect the new committees in charge of maritime in the Senate and House of Representatives to check these excesses “NIMASA is supposed to be committed in establishing enabling environment for indigenous operators through fleet expansion, provision of maritime infrastructure, development of indigenous manpower, among others. “It is supposed to synchronise its operations with Section 105 of the Local Content Act without losing sight of Sections 16 and 17 of the NIMASA Act. “The non-disbursement of Cabotage Vessels Finance Fund ( CVFF) is not good for the industry despite several assurances given by government,” he said. On the maritime related bills, which President Muhammadu Buhari did not sign, Amiwero suggested that experts be invited to look into the matter. NPA, according to him, lacked clearly spelt out duties in a port concession regime as its Act does not provide for it. He advised the Ninth National Assembly against politicising its role, arguing that the interest of all should be the overriding consideration in law making. Buhari cited the proposed mode of funding for Nigerian Maritime University for not signing the bill. No reason was given for not signing the bill establishing the National Transport Commission which sought to replace NSC.