Two brothers charged with the murder of their cousin, Okwuchukwu Okeke have been discharged and acquitted by the Anambra State High Court Two, Ihiala Judicial Division. The accused, Chidiebere and Monday Ewuzie Okeke from Umudioka-Umuohi Okija, were freed by Justice Raphael Onunkwo for lack of credible evidence. Ruling on the 2-count charge of conspiracy and murder, Justice Onunkwo said the Prosecuting Counsel did not prove the allegation of the murder beyond reasonable doubt as demanded by criminal justice. He however acknowledged the Counsel admitted that the deceased, according to autopsy result and Police witness, died as a result of head injury inflicted on him by a group of persons. According to Justice Onunkwo, the death of Okwuchukwu was enmeshed in suspicious circumstances which the Prosecuting Counsel failed to unravel due to the lustre and shoddy investigations. Declaring the accused not guilty of the offence, the Judge however stressed that the deceased’s murderers might escape human justice but could not escape divine justice. It would be recalled that the deceased’s decomposing body was found in the underground floor of his brother’s house in Umuohi Okija on May 14, 2018 by the deceased father, Mr. Oliver Okeke, who wanted to bury him immediately but was stopped as he did not report the matter to the police. The deceased uncle, Mr. Ibodimma, took the matter to court and the deceased relations alleged that the two cousins were responsible for his murder. Reacting to the judgment, the Counsel to the accused persons, Chief Oselloka Osigwe expressed  satisfaction with the ruling, stressing that there was no proper investigation into the case to substantiate the allegations. One of the accused, Monday Ewuzie Okeke thanked God for the judgment that set him free. The prosecuting counsel Mr Okafor, could not be reached for reaction as he did not appear in court while efforts to speak with the deceased father was unsuccessful as he left immediately after the ruling.