Shopping malls are increasingly gaining attraction in major cities across the country. A forum organised in Lagos examines how small and medium enterprises (SMEs) can have a better bite of the pie, JANE CHIJOKE reports. Small and medium enterprise (SME) operators have been advised to focus on building a sustainable brand to gain market share, rather than competing on price to penetrate more market. Experts say competition based on pricing alone could have adverse effect on the sustainability of products. They spoke at a SME gathering organised by Marketing Lab. With: Marketing to the Mass Market-: How to Build a brand in a Price-conscious Economy as theme, the experts  explained that using pricing alone as a tool does not guarantee having a strong position for any brand. They said providing more value would not only appeal to consumers but also distinguish them in the market place.  They said such value added would drive competitive edge and enhance brand loyalty. They maintained that low pricing could attract the traffic intended but could also signal a wrong impression on consumers as it would be regarded as of low quality. The Convener, Mr Adeola Kayode, said  though price is relative based on the target market, stressing that ability to communicate beyond pricing is critical to driving brand loyalty and increasing credibility in the long term. “You need to justify why your product is a little bit expensive or why it is more affordable by ensuring that you are adding more value to the product. If you say you are cheap, is it enough to keep you in business for the next few years? You need to concentrate on positioning your brand which is the most critical factor. Pricing is an important factor in any business, however, there is a limit you can go with price.  Being cheap could drive much customers until your customers realise that a more cheaper product is now in the market. At that point, what becomes of your business? “Price only comes in the absence of value.  People are actually looking for value.  So if you are a new brand, can you mean something different to your target audience? What do you want to be known for?  There is a lot more competitors on price and volume, what are you doing uniquely from others. You need to begin to fill that space. If you are able to connect with them in a way that is more gainful, then you are likely to last longer,” he said. Corroborating him, Fred Akinmuyisitan of Noah’s Ark Communications advised  businesses to have clear understanding of their purpose to their target audience.  He explained that scaling up a business has been a major focus for SMEs, and while doing so, they give low attention to building a reputable brand. “One thing every SME is looking to actually scale is building their brands. You do not sacrifice brand building on the altar of cutting prices. There would be the temptation of wanting to be the most affordable but what reputation are you building for the brand in terms of quality and value. It is important for every business at all levels to know their what, how and why of the business. You cannot say because you are an SME, you just focus on price. Find why your business exists and also ensure that you can stay competitive,” he said. Mrs  Edidiong Uwemakpan of Resori Marketing Solutions  also advised SMEs to have better understanding about their consumers behaviour and market segmnetation so as to identify the gaps or white spaces that exist in such category and explore to their advantage. “It cannot be about price nor the volume, it is about putting a brand in a position in a way that the product remains the consumers’ choice no matter the number of products of that category in the market” she added.