A suspected traffic robber was on Saturday night lynched and afterwards set ablaze by a mob along the Badagry Expressway in Lagos. It was gathered that the incident occurred under the bridge at International Trade Fair in Ojo, about the time traders were going home. The suspect, it was gathered, was part of a three man gang that had terrorised motorists on that part of the road. According to sources, the young man and his other gang members were seen roaming the area between Trade Fair and Mike Two which alerted onlookers on the possibility they could be traffic robbers. It was gathered that suspects rode on three motorcycles which they later parked off the road around Abule-Osun. “People were observing them there including policemen. Within the snap of a finger, the suspect moved to the other side of the express and attacked a motorist. As he was there, the policemen went after him but he took off. “They pursued him, double crossed his motorcycle around Trade Fair but the suspect quickly abandoned it and fled. Because of the traffic, the policemen could not give him hot pursuit. So, he they recovered his motorcycle and a locally made gun. “But unknown to the fleeing robber, he was running to his death as motorists who observed what was happening from their mirror and traders going home immediately identified him and knocked him down. “They set him abalze before the police could get to the location. Those boys have made life unbearable for people using that road. Because of the bad road, traffic usually builds there and so, they made it a habit to be terrorising road users. “No one saw his other accomplices. I am not supporting jungle justice but I think people are tired of wanting for the Nigerian legal system,” said the source who pleaded not to be named. Meanwhile, three other robbery suspects escaped mob action at Fahbemi Street in Apapa after they riggled themselves off local vigilantes. It was gathered that the thieves who wore black clothes, were seen around 6am by early birds in the street. A teenager Quadri Shittu said he was opening his sister’s shop when he noticed the guards chasing the suspected brobbers. “I was about to open my sister’s shop when I heard people shouting. Then I saw three men dressed in black and they were being chased by the guards,” he said. Another resident who refused to be named said the thieves escaped because the guards didn’t raise alarm early enough. “I saw three men dressed in black and I didn’t know they were thieves not until the security guards started shouting thief!” She said. Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) confirmed the lynching of the suspected robber. He said: “It is true. The suspected robber attempted to rob a victim but he was chased by policemen and he fled. Unfortunately, he ran into a mob that set him ablaze before the police arrived the scene.