THE National Assembly has promised to support efforts being made by the Federal Government to address the nation’s security challenges. A delegation of members of the Senate and House of Representatives gave the assurance yesterday during a condolence visit to Afenifere leader Reuben Fasoranti over the murder of his daughter, Mrs. Funke Olakunri by gunmen on Ore/Lagos highway. The delegation was led by the Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Prof. Ajayi Borrofice. The lawmakers expressed concern about the security challenges facing the country, which, according to them, is gradually getting out of hand. Boroffice said the National Assembly was ready to partner relevant stakeholders in nipping kidnapping and armed banditry in the bud. According to him, both Senate and House of Representatives are part of the government, stressing that the situation must not continue. He said: “There is a need for urgent action on the security challenges in the country. Our dear sister has transformed from mortality to immortality. Action must be taken urgently to curtail the menace of criminals. “We condole with the bereaved families. Mrs. Olakunri has left a vacuum that is difficult to fill. Papa, we want you to believe that you still have people around you; we will not leave you alone. Borrofice said the federal lawmakers were worried about the present security challenges and has taken many steps to partner relevant stakeholders. Also, a member of the House of Representatives, Segun Odebunmi, expressed hope that Olakunri’s death will end killings of innocent Nigerians. He said her death would likely be a sacrifice to end killings and insecurity challenges in the country, stressing that the National Assembly would do everything possible to ensure that the security challenges facing the country are tackled headlong. Fasoranti urged the Federal Government to find a lasting solution to series of problems such as killings, kidnappings, unemployment and other social menaces in the country. The delegation included many federal lawmakers from the state. 