The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), in collaboration with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), has unveiled a survey to help Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) access finance with ease and grow the sector, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Capital is to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) what water is to fish. MSMEs want sufficient funds at low interest rate for their operations. But banks’reluctance to lend to MSMEs have made that dream a mirage for many operators. Cash for their businesses has been elusive. To reverse the trend and put  the MSMEs on a sound footing, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) and the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) have unveiled the 2017 National Survey for MSMEs in Lagos. SMEDAN believes that economies of great nations thrive on the strength of their MSMEs and that the same feat should be replicated in Nigeria. At the unveiling of the survey in Lagos, SMEDAN Director-General Umaru Dikko Radda said the report was invaluable to the MSMEs sub-sector. He said facilitating access to finance, entrepreneurship training,  markets, vocational skills upgrade, business counselling/monitoring, and business information are most important mediation roles carried out by SMEDAN to fix MSMEs. According to Radda, the setting up of SMEDAN in 2013 was government’s major response to MSMEs’ problems, especially providing capacity and seeking more funding for the sector. “With a mandate to promote the development the SMEs sub-sector of the economy, SMEDAN assumed the twin roles of coordination and facilitation as the agency for MSMEs development. With an estimated 3.33 million enterprises in 2017, Lagos not only leads in total enterprise numbers, but in each of the three enterprise classes – micro, small and medium,” he said. He called on the government to establish an MSMEs bank to make loan accessible to small businesses. Radda said the agency had instituted a five-year strategic plan to tackle the challenges facing the sector. “We are talking on our operation and we would want to concentrate more on the fewer activities we have. We are talking about capacity building, business development support, which is very much needed at this time. If you do not build the capacity of the people for them to be competitive, they cannot grow even if you give them money,” he said. The survey revealed that MSMEs  increased by 12 per cent, to 41,543,028. Radda said the report indicated that MSMEs contributed hugely to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. “Though the increase was negligible, I think it is worthy of mention, because it has increased to 7.68 percent,” he added. On the challenges MSMEs face, he said finance was still a major factor. He stressed the need for a review on how MSMEs could access loans. “You know from the survey; finance has remained the major challenge of the micro-enterprises. This is followed by capacity building, which is more about the capacity of the MSMEs. I think, as regards to the finance, the government is doing a lot of things to ensure they are addressed. And I think the interventions from the CBN are equally helping to reduce the challenge,” he added. He said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is giving SMEDAN the opportunity to train the people taking the N220 billion SMEs intervention funds as part of the requirement for the loan. “It is after SMEDAN has trained the operators, assessed their business plan and get them to complete the loan forms that the documents will be sent to the CBN for the loans disbursement,” he said. He said SMEDAN was not interested in loan disbursement, but in simply requesting that the CBN makes sure that this was given to them and the agency given more responsibility to monitor and evaluate the loans. The Statistician-General of the Federation/CEO, NBS , Yemi Kale, applauding the increase, urged the Federal Government to continue to support. MSMEs to reduce unemployment. He said: “I mentioned in my report that micro businesses have increased by about 12 per cent. Small businesses also increased by about four per cent, but medium scale enterprises dropped significantly by about 60 per cent, and I attributed that to economic recession that spanned through 2017. “When there is economic recession, businesses struggle, and the bigger you are the more you struggle because capital and cost are higher, and the staff you have are higher.” He added: “But as you can see, both in terms of employment, total number MSMEs, especially micro, there was an increase. In terms of assets size, there was a slight decrease in the assets size of the businesses in that space and as I said, it could be as a result of the recession. “So, it is difficult, and I think we need a normal year, maybe by the next time we update this study, to see a clear picture. Because I believe the recession will distort the findings of how the sector has performed.” He also said based on the findings, Lagos, Oyo, and Osun states, were the top three in terms of MSMEs enterprises. Kale added: “There is a need to pay a lot more attention to these micro businesses because they have the largest share of employment. They contribute a huge chunk of gross domestic product, and they probably have the greatest possibilities to create more jobs. “So, the government needs to pay as much attention if not more, to them and also, it may be difficult to lump 41 million of them together. We need to create more levels so they can be better targeted. “Reduction in registration fees have helped, but we have to also focus on some other challenges they face and create policies to tackle them, and that is what data is for. It helps you know what MSME challenges are in different areas, and as a government, we create policies to tackle it.” Kale said MSMEs play a significant role as the engine for economic transformation and industrialisation for both developed and developing countries. Such roles, he said, include improved income re-distribution (low level capital required), job creation and skills development (particularly for youths, women, elderly), adoption of technology and innovation (competitiveness), industrial diversification, stimulates local economy (demand down the value chain). Kale listed challenges facing MSMEs as vulnerabilirty to economic shocks,  stable and supportive policy environment, excessive regulation, complex and cumbersome tax process, and skills acquisition for youths. Kale said the survey was conducted in all 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Both urban and rural enumeration areas were covered. “Poor access to finance was highlighted as a major challenge for MSMEs. Also on the list are poor power supply, inadequate water supply, taxation and unfavorable government policies, among others,” he said. He said 22,200 households, 600 households with enterprises interviewed per state, 15 households selected per enumeration area in getting figures for the micro enterprises. For the Small and Micro Enterprises (SMEs), he added that 4,000 operators were visited across all states, including FCT. He said of the 41.5 million MSMEs nationwide, micro constituted 41,469,947 (99.8 per cent) , small: 71,288 (0.17 per cent)  and medium: 1,793 (0.004 per cent). Continuing, Kale said: “Composition of sectors is different for each business classification, primarily due to staff requirements of more formal establishments. For instance,  Education and Construction are low for small business but top five for medium-scale enterprises. Education, Manufacturing, and Wholesale/Retail Trade make up 68 per cent of small enterprises. Manufacturing, Wholesale/Retail Trade, and Human Health and Social Works make up 68 per cent of medium enterprises.” Other key observation in the report are that wholesale/retail trade, agriculture, and other services  make up 76.3 per cent of micro enterprises. Sectors requiring high numbers of employers or skilled labour – education, human health and social works, communications have very low numbers of micro enterprises. Accommodation and food services is a preferred sector across all business classification. According to the survey, majority of micro businesses are sole proprietorships; SMEs, however, are more distributed with 65 per cent sole proprietorship, 21 per cent private limited liability, six per cent faith-based, and five per cent partnerships. Micro businesses are mostly youths – 26 to 50, while 88 per cent of SMEs operators are over 36. Also, Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) National Chairman, ‘Degun Agboade, said the survey provides opportunity for MSME operators to plan, network and seek greater benefits in the industry. He  praised the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) for reducing the company registration fee from N10,500 to N5,500, adding that it has helped many operators to formalise their businesses. He said the SMEDAN and NBS partnership would continue to make the business environment profitable and sustainable for business owners. He also said the stakeholders should unite to make funds available to MSMEs. Other stakeholders said to fund their operations, MSMEs initially turned to internal and external sources of finance. Internal sources include personal savings, borrowings from family and friends and credit from local cooperative societies, but as business expands, they require greater pool of funds than is made available by these sources to meet business financing needs. The external sources of finance provide wider access to large pools of funds, which are required for MSMEs to exploit growth and investment opportunities. They insisted that MSMEs could expand operations by identifying and utilising business opportunities with better access to finance structured specifically to cater to identified needs. Such funding, they added, wiould come from financial institutions, such as finance companies, commercial banks, development finance institutions, government grants and funds and venture capital funds.  SMEDAN and Conditional Grant Scheme The SMEDAN has also inaugurated the Conditional Grant Scheme (CGS) with the support of the Federal Government. The CGS was created to promote micro enterprises across the country through capacity building and delivery of post-intervention support services, such as access to finance (conditional grants), markets, workspace, and technology. Findings showed that the SMEs performed below expectation as a result of poor access to finance, inadequate managerial skills, poor accounting practice, poor infrastructure, policy somersault, multiple taxes, environmental factors, and marketing problems, among others. SMEDAN, with the backing of Federal Government, unveiled the CGS to reverse the trend. The scheme was created to improve the internally-generated revenue of the three tiers of government across the country, thereby reducing over-dependence on oil revenue. 