The Plateau state Internal Revenue Services has declared N9.2 billion as its revenue within the first six months of 2019. Executive Chairman of the State Internal Revenue Services, Mr. Arlat Dashe, disclosed this in a media chat in Jos on Saturday. He said the figure raised within the first half of the year is a result of innovations adopted by the agency to boost internal revenue profile of the state. Governor Simon Lalong, had earlier in the year gave a revenue target of N18 billion annually to the agency. According to Dashe: “This figure is the highest the state has ever generated from internal source since its creation in 1975. “And this happened because the management has brought in innovations that expanded the revenue sources of the state.” He added: “In the past, the internal revenue was concentrated on the formal sector but the present management has opened up the informal sector to expand the revenue base of the state. “We are driving to achieve N2 billion revenue target monthly because we believe that for the state government to deliver social infrastructure to citizens taxes are needed to sustain such developments.” He added: “Already, every residents of Jos can testify the fact that government is doing great in road construction and fixing street lights in all streets of Jos. “All these social services made business transactions easier. And so, much is expected of citizens in terms of tax payments.” Dashe explained: “The agency, in conjunction with the Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC) and Vehicle Inspection Officers of the state will embark on an exercise to clamp down on motorists and tricycle operators that are not registered with the state revenue service. “The exercise is not only for revenue drive but will go a long way help to reduce crimes in the society. “We are aware of hundreds of commercial tricycle operators that are operating illegally. We will go round the state to raid them and made them to register with government. “At the end of the exercise, we want to ensure all commercial tricycle operators in this state are registered and clearly identified. So that if any of them indulges in criminal activities, they can be easily fish out.”