The annual new yam festival popularly known as Odun Oba in Ikere Ekiti, Ikere Local Government area of Ekiti State on Thursday turned violent with a commercial motorcyclist reportedly killed. The feast which was flagged off was characterized with bloody clash as supporters of the two rival kings in the town, the Ogoga of Ikere, Oba Adejimi Adu and Olukere, Oba Ganiyu Obasoyin engaged in a gun battle. Two other persons were reportedly wounded through gunshots during the violent clash. The two kings have been embroiled in crisis over supremacy battle and step taken to reduce the status of Olukere to a mere chief priest to deny him recognition as an Oba. According to an eye witness source, the incident happened around the popular Odo Oja roundabout close to Olukere’s palace around 6pm. It was also said to have caused panic in the town as people had to scamper for safety as a result of the severity and sporadic nature of the gunshots. Those traveling to Akure from Ado Ekiti and vice versa, had to take a detour and returned to their bases to prevent being caught in the web of the terrific gunduel. The witness recounted that “The Ogoga, Oba Adu was preparing for the annual Odun Oba and part of the rituals was for his people to dance around town on Thursday to perform some rituals. “As they were doing this, the traditional hunters were shooting sporadically and the bullet hit an okada man and two others who belonged to Olukere’s camp and that was the beginning of the crisis”. Confirming the incident, the Police public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr Caleb Ikechukwu, said one Okada man died as a result of gunshot during the traditional dancing process while one person was wounded. “We learnt one of the supporters of the two camps was performing traditional dance in the town and the hunters were firing shots with their dane guns when one okada man was hit by bullets and died. “One other man was also wounded and now receiving treatment in the hospital”. Ikechukwu said the crisis had been quelled while his men are already on ground to prevent further escalation of the bedlam. A human right activist Morakinyo Ogele appealed to the State Police command to unravel and arrest whoever might have perpetrated such heinous act and ensure they face the wrath of Justice.    