SHOSOWEN: My name is Shosowen and my Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) is Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers. I retired on September 28, 2008. My complaint is that I am being paid less than I should be paid. Shortly before I retired, I visited my pension managers to update my records. However, on returning, I got a letter of promotion from CONTISS 11 to CONTISS 12/06. I sent the updates to my pension managers immediately before I retired, but it has not been effected. Currently, I am still being paid on CONTISS 11 grade level. I trust God to use you to help me wade into the matter so it can be resolved. STANBIC IBTC PENSION OKONKWO: Please be informed that Mr Shosowen is a retiree on our records who is currently on our monthly pension payroll. We would like to clarify that the computation of lump sum  and programmed withdrawal amount paid to retirees is not based on grade level but on the standard programmed withdrawal template/model (PWT) issued by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) in line with the provisions of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014. The variables for calculating LS and PW include the Retiree’s retirement savings account (RSA) balance, age at retirement, gender and last annual total emolument as captured on the client’s pay slip. We have tried to contact him on his phone number (as registered on our records) but it is switched off. He is required to provide us with his redemption of retirement bond letter to enable us ascertain the grade level used for the computation of his benefits and to liaise with the appropriate authority where a shortfall is observed. Kindly advise us with his contact details (if different from the above) to enable us provide further clarification. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff of Yaba LCDA. I have been with Stanbic IBTC Pension since its inception. But just this month, my pension fund was transferred to Leadway Pensure without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic as my pension manager. STANBIC IBTC PENSION: Please note that the policy of the National Pension Commission (PenCom) on multiple registrations is the ‘First PIN’ rule which recognises the first RSA PIN generated for a client as the valid one to be maintained. Based on this, Mr Abdulsalam’s first PIN as confirmed by PenCom is the PIN registered with Leadway Pensure. Therefore, his RSA PIN with us was invalidated and the funds transferred to his valid Pension Fund Administrator in January 2019. Kindly note that Mr Abdulsalam was informed of his valid RSA PIN with Leadway via a letter dated October 10, 2018.  We advise that he provides his Leadway PIN to his employer to ensure his RSA is credited timely. However, he can choose to transfer back to us once the transfer window is opened by PenCom. Do note that we also called him today to provide further clarification but our calls were unpicked. We would try again before close of business. STEVEN: I am a retired teacher from Ifako International School. I was receiving N24,684.76 pension but since year 2003 nothing has been given to me. My Pension  number  is Anonymous. I will be happy if you can help and see that the money is paid. I also worked at Barachel Model College. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. ALICE: My name is Alice Olufumilayo Fadipe. Welldone and thanks for The Nation’s concern on pensioners matters. My pensioner number is Anonymous. I did verification since August 2017 but PTAD has not paid me till date. Kindly assist, several pensioners have gotten their pension. I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on April 30, 2008 without payment till date. Thank you. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. JOSHUA: Dear Omobola, my name is Joshua. I retired as a Seargent on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment January 20, 1986 and date of retirement is march 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I am in penury and pray you to tell pension boss to pay my pension. I am helplessly living a tortous life. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. ONIYE: God bless The Nations Pension Column. My name is Mrs. Oniye. I retired from Federal Government College, Idoani in April,1999, as Grade 2 Typist, G.L 5 Step 10. My gratuity was paid on June 7, 2007. I never received any monthly pension. Please see to my problem by helping me to contact the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) on non-payment of my monthly pension since 1999. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news.