Still striving to promote correct usage, we move on with alphabetically selected specimens for this edition’s conversation. Here we go: Hand over/handing over/Handover The issue here is that many writers do not mind the word categories these expressions belong to respectively. Hand over is a phrasal verb, while handing over is the present continuous of that same phrasal verb. But handover is a noun. When you confuse the classifications of any words, terms or expressions, you are bound to misuse them, as in the following sentence: A proper handing over will not take place. Handing over has been wrongly used as a noun in this sentence. Correct usage is hand over, which we have identified above as a noun, because a noun is required there. Thus, the sentence should read as follows: A proper handover will not take place. Note, however, that it is correct to say: “We are handing over now to the new chairman.” But handing over is used here in the present continuous sense of the phrasal verb hand over. A related usage, which we should always mind, is where we use handover as an adjective, for example: “The handover ceremony begins this afternoon.” Here, handing over will not serve, because it is no adjective. So, avoid errors like “The handing over ceremony begins this afternoon.” Haven Forever, security operatives and actors have misused this word by always qualifying it with the adjective safe. United Nations (UN) peacekeepers mostly describe their bunkers as safe havens. This columnist edited numerous UN reports with sentences like the one below: The safe haven for the camp is nearing completion. The adjective safe is redundant in the statement, because by definition, a haven is “a safe or peaceful place” (Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary, hereinafter indicated simply as CALD). It is thus tautological to say safe haven. While you may excuse the UN rampant misuse of haven as professional officialese, we discourage such a habit in general usage. Even UN peacekeepers can simply say: “The camp haven or bunker is nearing completion.” A bunker is “a strongly built shelter for soldiers or guns, usually underground” (Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary OALD henceforth). And here is another rather bizarre misusage of the noun haven: Today, the country has become an unsafe haven in which tribal and sectarian groups operate with unbridled audacity under various guises. What a bedlam to talk of an unsafe “place of safety or refuge”! It is sheer verbosity, superfluity and bombast occasioning lexical chaos to modify haven with safe or unsafe. We will attempt to make sense of the chaos, thus: Today, the country has become a dangerous place in which tribal and sectarian groups operate with unbridled audacity under various guises. To be sure, the writer of the awkward sentence may not have meant more than is said in the sense-infused re-construction. If need be You could easily presume common understanding and correct usage of this idiom. Wait until you encounter statements like this: In crisis he embraced the doctrine of liberation theology and . . . was prepared if needs be to die as a champion of suffering humanity. If needs be is an unacceptable corruption of the standard idiom if need be, meaning “if necessary.” Writer must be careful not to mutilate any idioms. So, just stick to if need be. Incident/Incidence Here are three typical misusages concerning incident and incidence: (a)…After my robbery incidence I have kept close touch with the police station. … (b)…Several other incidences have happened on the road. (c)…The high incidents of piracy and other maritime crimes have prompted the government to expand the mandate of its military Joint Task Force. In (a) and (b) above, incident is the appropriate usage, NOT incidence and incidences respectively. The reason is: incident means an event, an occurrence while incidence “is more often used in technical contexts, referring to the frequency with which something occurs” (OALD/AmazonKindle). The sentences should therefore read as follows: After my robbery incident, I have kept close touch with the police station; and Several other incidents have happened on the road. In example (c), ‘correct usage is incidence, NOT incident, as the writer is talking about the frequency of the occurrence of piracy. Remember always that incident refers to “something that happens, especially something unusual or unpleasant” (OALD), while “incidence is about frequency or extent of the unpleasant happening (ibid.). We would do well to note also that incidence is usually singular, even when it refers to frequency. As such, you talk of many incidents of crime, but a high incidence of crime’ (“Pop” Errors in English: Writers Beware – “Pop” Errors henceforth). The third specimen error should therefore go thus: The high incidence of piracy and other maritime crimes has prompted the government to expand the mandate of its military Joint Task Force. Inclusive More often than not, you read statements like this, particularly from policy wonks in government, the governance and development field and civil society: The kind of leadership that will promote the all-inclusive governance expected in an e-government environment has not been provided. “Pop” Errors advises that: “This pandemic all-inclusive should be avoided like the plague that it is. To be inclusive is to include all; that is what the Oxford Dictionary of English suggests in this definition: “including all the services or items normally expected or required.” The book asserts that “all-inclusive is redundant; inclusive should do.” 