Although established in 2,000 to fast-track sustainable economic growth in the Niger Delta region, not much was done by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in this regard. The commission, however, has begun to meet some of its targets since the new administration appointed new NDDC management team, writes PRECIOUS IGBONWELUNDU. Before now, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was seen as an appointment to “settle the boys”, perceived loyal godsons assumed to have invested personal funds, commitment in the actualisation of the political goals of their leaders. Rather than meet the targets for which it was established, successive administrations have been accused of diverting funds meant for developmental projects of the region to sponsor political agenda of their godfathers, thus fueling unrest, insecurity and militancy in the Niger Delta. The prosecution of past leaders of the NDDC for alleged embezzlement and corruption by anti-graft agencies did not come as a surprise to observers, given the gross underdevelopment, pollution and degradation of the Niger Delta, the region which produces the crude oil Nigeria depends on for survival. But fortune seemed to have smiled on the people of Niger Delta with the assumption of office of the Acting NDDC Managing Director, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa who took over from Nsima Ekere earlier in the year. Setting the ball rolling, Brambaifa and his management team sought the partnership of the Joint Taskforce (JTF) Operation Delta Safe. This move, according to Brambaifa, was based on the fact that the NDDC had security, infrastructural development and youth empowerment as key priorities. At a meeting with the JTF Commander, Rear Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, Brambaifa revealed that the NDDC would undertake the construction of access roads in Yenagoa and build modern police headquarter in Bayelsa State. The pro-people activities of the Brambaifa-led NDDC has endeared the commission to the hearts of most Niger Deltans so much so that a group known as Inter-ethnic Network for Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Buhari (INCRAB) had condemned a petition against the Acting Managing Director of the NDDC to the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu, even as it said it was “baseless, mischievous and politically-engineered attacks on the Executive Management team of the NDDC. The group said: “The allegations of financial impropriety and other unnecessary attacks against the management of NDDC were calculated attempts bereft of facts and common sense, targeted at putting the executive management team of the commission in bad light before the President and entire Nigerians.” INCRAB noted that the motive of the petitioners was to seize the economic and political structures of the NDDC and use same to advance some selfish and desperate pursuit for political power. “It is worrisome that these unwholesome attacks are staged against the management team of the NDDC despite its sterling performance and widespread interventions across all critical sectors of the economy, including infrastructure, human capital development, agriculture, education, health, environment, empowerment and social welfare. “We state with all sense of responsibility and modesty that the massive achievements recorded by the five-month-old Braimbraifa-led management team do not only exist in the papers as may be the tradition with some government agencies but are tangible with known geographical locations within the Niger Delta and real beneficiaries across the region. “We understand that the originators, fabricators and sponsors of these attacks and campaigns of calumny are highly placed politicians domiciled outside the Niger Delta region who pride themselves with their far-reaching clout and influence across the six geo-political zones of the nation. “In view of the shenanigans and dubious intent of the orchestrators of the allegations and campaigns of calumny against the executive management team of the commission that has touched so many lives and performed creditably within a very short period, we urge the people of the Niger Delta to brace up against any form of external intrusion through a few willing tools in the region to sweep off a team that has brought back the NDDC to the people and given them a proud sense of belonging through its numerous programmes and prompt interventions. “The NDDC cannot continue to be the cash cow of greedy politicians whose insatiable appetite for power spurs them into attempting to hijack the commission at all costs for the sole purpose of promoting and financing their selfish political pursuits while undermining and demoting the development efforts of the management of the commission.” Association of Rivers and Bayelsa Contractors of Niger Delta (RABCON) has also condemned what it described as the needless attacks on the management of the NDDC. The contractors, in a statement endorsed by the trio of Chief Aaron Tamunokoriari Princewill, Engr. Zebb Tuordolor and Dr. Nyema Owhondah, said they were “worried by this campaign because we the contractors of Rivers/Bayelsa are beneficiaries of this new board while the entire Niger Delta is bubbling with relief since its inception. “Our payments have been flowing unhindered and we are carrying out projects awarded to us with specification and proper supervision, unlike in the past.” Similarly, a Niger Delta stakeholder, Iniruo Wills said:  “It is obvious that the NDDC is doing quite a number of projects across the country. Those projects are transformational. Such projects include the Ogbianeme Road they said they are jointly doing with Shell, one of their major projects capable of transforming lives because it is very strategic. “It connects a lot of communities around that route together and it’s a big one. However, I think they can do better, especially the duration they spend completing the projects. “The Nembe Road project ordinarily should not have lasted beyond five years but it has lasted for 17 years without being completed. I’m sure the expectations of the people now is that it should be expanded beyond what they are doing. Summarily, they are doing well but they can do better.”