Renowned property development company, Arkland Properties & Investment Company Limited and real estate firm, Amlad Group have announced the take off of construction of A&A Tower, a 19-floor luxury apartments building at Ocean Front District, Eko Atlantic City, Lagos. This was disclosed at a media parley at the Eko Atlantic Sales Office, Victoria Island, Lagos, recently. According to Joseph Clarke, CEO of Amlad Group, who are owners of the property upon which the construction will be standing, the stunning piece of architecture designed by renowned Turkish architect, Atilla Ilhan, “will be the first fully-owned Nigerian structure in the new Eko Atlantic City, when it is completed in 30 months.” While expatiating on the luxury apartment, Clarke said “Future residents of the mixed-use development will be immersed in the beauty of the surrounding landscape and the state of the art furnishings throughout the building. “A&A Tower comprises dual level penthouses, 2 bedroom & 3 bedroom apartments, high quality office spaces, and well-designed retail spaces with mezzanine floors. All of this is available at favourable pricing in comparison to other properties in Eko Atlantic, as buyers also have the option to purchase via multiple flexible instalment payment plans.” While disclosing that the penthouses are already taken, Clarke said the two-bedroom and 3-bedroom apartments are still available at prices starting from N145m and N165m respectively, with prospective buyers able to make initial starting deposit of N10m. At the moment, he said the penthouses, which are duplexes are already taken, but prospective buyers still have the opportunity of buying two or more apartments and joining them, which he said is the advantage in buying ahead. Speaking on its pedigree, Clarke said Amlad has a 13-floor construction ongoing on Banana Island Road, residential apartments in Parkview, Ikoyi, Lagos and another at Asokoro Extension, Abuja. He said the organisation has a reputation for being “well-grounded, not cutting corners and guarantees highest quality.” Jide Olumodimu, MD/CEO of Arkland Properties and Investment Co. Ltd, commenting on the project, said: “A&A Tower is our biggest and most exciting project yet! With 98 units in this building, we look forward to contributing positively to Nigeria’s current housing crisis by providing viable property solutions.”