Sen. Opeyemi Bamidele APC-Ekiti), has urged Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun to make his victory at the Supreme Court a catalyst for more development in his state. The senator who represents Ekiti Central Senatorial District, gave the charge in a congratulatory statement he personally signed and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Sunday. NAN reports that the apex court had validated Oyetola’s victory in a majority judgement of five to two on Friday. “I charge the governor to up his game and expeditiously begin the process of transforming the lives of the people in earnest. “The Apex Court’s verdict has again restated the widespread belief that Oyetola should enjoy the legitimacy to lead, having truly won the Sept. 22, 2018 governorship poll. “I also salute the gallantry of the challenger and the Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate, Sen. Ademola Adeleke, by his resolve to work with the present government to make the state greater,” he said. Bamidele urged the governor to convert the victory to gains, by embarking on those policies and projects that would mitigate poverty in the state of the living spring. He said the victory came at the time when the governor’s tenure had started gathering a beneficial momentum, urging him to be more decisive and zealous in the task of transforming the economy of the state. “Before the huge distraction was rested by the supreme Court, Oyetola proved his mettle through regular payment of salaries and pensions. “I have no misgiving that he will do more now that the storm was over. “Apart from ensuring that the state breathe a new less of life under his able watch, the governor must also begin a process of reconciliation taking cognisance of the cleavages and bad blood the fiercely contested election and the subsequent litigation had elicited. “In actual fact, this was a sweet victory for the APC family in Osun State and Nigeria, for Osun, being strategic to the party’s dominance in the region cannot afford to be left out of the next level development focus of President Muhammadu Buhari led administration. “I congratulate Oyetola and wish him the best as he superintends over the affairs of Osun State,” he said. (NAN)