Mrs Gertrude Akhimien is the new Chairman of the Nigeria Association of Small Scale Industrialists, (NASSI), Lagos Chapter. She served as the Vice Chairman to the previous administration for four years and has been in the SMEs sector for over 20 years. In this interview with Jane Chijioke, she talks of her plans to create more market access for her members and improve on the successes made by her predecessor. She also reels out the challenges faced by the sector. What are your plans to improve the SMEs sector? My visions for NASSI are quite strategic. There are three areas that are my main focus; access to funds for our members. Many of our members are running businesses that require scaling up. I mean growing  business to a level where it can produce more, generate more revenue and employ more workers. Another area is market access.  Access to market is key because when you grow a business, it is important that you provide that access or you make it possible for such businesses to be able to sell their products, interms of distributions, logistics and then have turn over. While the third area is the advocacy;  it is important that we continue to walk with government to improve standards, build on what we have already achieved, and advocate for lower taxes for our members. Government needs to provide SMEs with logistics in terms of better infrastructure, roads, hubs so that people who are into production can come together especially for people who are producing  the same  kind of items. Shopping malls have become one stop shop for most consumers to do their shopping activities. Has there been any form of partnership with these supermarket chains to expand market access of SMES products? One of  the things I did as soon as I resumed office was to have a meeting with Silver Bird Galleria on the need to give us space in the mall. They have actually allocated space to us which we are trying to see how many of our members can bring in good products that would be displayed there. We are still trying to get them to give us some good discounts on the space because as smes, we cannot afford that kind of space. So it is part of the ways to create more market access for our members. As we speak, we have some of our members who are now in some shopping malls. We have the likes of Shoprite, Spar who now have our products. We were lucky two years ago after our yearly exhibition, Jumia Came on board and took a lot of our members’ products. So many of us sell online right now and we are competing very well with foreign made products. Nigerians  still love the Nigerian products. They still eat the basic food at homes and these foods must be produced locally by Nigerians and that actually is a big market. What other strategies are you putting in place to promote these locally made goods? Many of these supermarket chains have the leverage which we lack. Number one is the size, their logistical capabilities. But it is not deterring us. We are also putting efforts to expand ourselves. We are trying to organise ourselves in such a way that we can have warehouses for our goods. We are already looking at going into the market to get these wholesale shops. Get distributors and dealers who can move these goods for us. That would boost more production of our products and that way we will be able to turn over. How much assistance does NASSI get from the government in promoting locally made goods in the country? I believe that there are laws in place for that.  The problem we face in this country is implementation and monitoring. If the laws are enforced to see that a significant percentage of our products are displayed in these shopping malls, then we can have more access of Nigerian products in such market places. There are enabling laws to watch against some of these things but unfortunately, these things are over looked and then we suffer. What we have achieved today is based mostly on our own efforts. We visit them, talk to them and appeal to them to have our products in their shelves. If you go into the ministries, and other government agencies’ office, you will find out that one of their enabling laws is to watch against some of these things. Unfortunately it is just a lip service. These foreign markets are here for profit so they take advantage of our lapses. We advocate for a hub. We need a hub for our members especially for those producing the same kind of items. With that, they would be economies of scale which will reduce their cost of production and make such items cheaper and competitive with foreign counterparts in the markets. Are there plans for market expansion of NASSI products beyond the country? With the quality and standard of products we uphold, some of our members are now exporting their products. Some of the products have already gone for testing to confirm the standard that is required. We are already into talks with organisations that want to partner for export purposes.   Some of our export partners are even offering to train our members to ensure the products meet the standard. Our food items such as smoked fish, Garri, Semovita, teas, snacks, elubo and others are being exported.  I was happy to see our products in an Indian shop in the United Kingdom a couple of months ago. I had a chat with the owner, he confirmed that the   items sell well but the comment he made at that time was that the packaging should be improved upon. What are the challenges faced by this sector? We have government interventions but sadly, they are not accessible. In terms of funding, the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria,  has put in place about N200b. We have over 500 applications for that fund with CBN but not even one  SME  has accessed it .  It is really sad. Our members have gone through the necessary interviews and collated all the documents needed; making sure that everything they asked for has been put in place. But to our greatest surprise, nobody has received these funds. As an association, we can only   keep encouraging our members not to give up. Now they have started talking about the textile fund our members are also getting ready for that. So we are putting together their documents and we are trying to ensure that they access the fund. Whenever government makes such declarations of funds, they should let  people believe them by making sure that these things get to the people that ought to have them. I urge government to please release these funds.  Smes are the bedrock of any economy. They generate more employment aspect of the economy. They create wealth. With smes, that is where you have the growing middle class.  We have over 20 million smes in the country but contribute 45 percent to the GDP. This is little because there are so many factors impeding their growth. Government ought to provide infrastructure. Many run their businesses from small spaces, rented apartments, homes. That is why they need these funds to expand. Also, we are advocating protection of the smes, whereby certain products are given protection by the government through higher taxes or custom tariffs so that people who are importing them into the country see it as unprofitable, allowing the local industry to grow. It is important that we communicate these issues to government so that they can swing into action. What is your advice to your members? Everybody is out there trying to sell one thing or the other. Customer is  critical to your business. You should ensure your product is acceptable, that way you can gain consumers’ loyalty. I encourage everyone to take advantage of the digital age to grow their market base. Know your target market, if they fall within that internet space, you must be online. Identify other means of reaching out to them. You need to push your products into different parts of the society and ensure that you make your products acceptable. Again, I encourage all to join a Business Membership Organisation because it is helpful. They teach you about your business and how to promote your products. Don’t just try and do it yourself. That incurs a lot of cost and time and you may eventually realise that you are just running  at a loss.