Three men, who allegedly forged documents belonging to the Olatunji Ruling House of Badagry, Lagos, assaulted two princes and damaged N55m properties, were on Wednesday brought before an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. The first to third defendants are: Agosu Thomas, 47; Atunisha Isidore, 59, who allegedly claimed to be a Nigerian Army Captain and Segun Alfred Awhanmienu, 46. They were arraigned by the police on an 11-count charge of conspiracy, forgery, threat to life, assault occasioning harm, wilful destruction of property and impersonation. Prosecuting Sergeant Friday Mameh said the defendants and their accomplices, who are on the run, committed the offences at lragbo Community, Badagry, between 2012 and 2015. He said: “In 2012, the defendants conspired and forged the letterhead of the Olatunji Ruling House dated 20th September 2012. “They also forged and executed a Deed of Assignment dated 3rd November 2008 between Madam Rafatu Olatunji (assignor) and Captain Isidore Atunisha (assignee). “In 2015, the defendants threatened to kill Monday Olatunjjl, Joseph Okoya and other famliy members of the Olatunji Ruling House.” The court heard that the defendants later allegedly unlawfully assaulted Olatunji and Okoya “by beating them up and causing them bodily harm.” Mameh said the defendants also willfully and unlawfully “destroyed or damaged building structures, and cement blocks valued at N5million, cash crops valued at N50million property of the Olatunji Ruling House, and a Volkswagen Golf car with Registration Number BDG 289 AX valued at N170,000, a property of one Emmanuel Olatunji. Count 11 of the charge reads: “That you Atunisha Isidore on the same date, and place did with intent to defraud Olatunji Ruling House, falsely represent yourself as a Captain in the Nigerian Military via a Deed of Assignment dated 3rd November 2008 between Madam Rafatu Olatunji (assignor) and Captain Isidore Atunisha (assignee).” The defendants pleaded not guilty. Magistrate M. O. Ope-Agbe granted each defendant N10million bail with two sureties in the like sum, among other conditions. She remanded the defendants in prison custody pending the fulfilment of the bail terms and adjourned till July 17.