Co-founder, Ritetrac Consulting Nigeria Limited, Mrs Ojiugo Ajunwa, is passionate about sharing knowledge and supporting people to reach their goals. She trains professionals from various fields to be change agents, writes DANIEL ESSIET. IF there is anything that entrepreneurship has taught Mrs Ojiugo Ajunwa in the past few years, it is that Nigerians are longer affected by boundaries. Thanks to the internet. Mrs Ajunwa, co-founder, Ritetrac Consulting Nigeria Limited, earns six-figure yearly coaching people to use their gifts to create profitable businesses. The mother of two helps entrepreneurs to build and launch online businesses so they could make extra income.  She has achieved success using online platform to bring innovative digital products to market and enable consumers to be part of positive change. How did the idea of her business come about? She said: “We saw a gap 11 years ago in the professional management capacity building space, especially project management and business process improvement training consulting space. With these two ideas, we kickstarted our organisation in January 2008.  Today, she is a success story exploring opportunities in the knowledge industry. She has been in the business for about 12 years. She explained: “We actually didn’t start with much money, but tasked our brain with coming up with our own conceived conferences and workshops, which was basically funded by stakeholders in any industry that we may need to impact. We also leveraged the use of internet, working online to gain visibility, authority, popularity and relevance through our blog career and business mentor so down the road the blog sent business and we were able to rent a small office space to kick off our operations.” She continued: “We run a lean organisation of three permanent staff and 36 contract based staff which comprises mainly of consultants and trainers across Nigeria and in the diaspora.” But she later had a problem. “Our main failure was not segmenting the market. We focused on just one service to one target market. So, over the years, we offer virtual consulting and training classes at different price points to ensure sustainability. The hotels and other rented facilities were not kind at all. In fact, that is the major set-back for new beginners that I see. Thank God for the advent of virtual offices and spaces.’’ Her advice for young entrepreneurs? “Ensure that you have clarity of purpose on the business you will like to start. If you can have a clear picture of where you want to be, then start taking those baby steps, which include researching the market, creating your minimum viable product, testing this out in the market as quickly as possible, getting your results and evaluating if you should go with this particular service or product. Also, don’t over analyse things.’’ In  20 years, she sees herself as an Impactpreneur, who will be touching women and youths especially and encouraging them to step up with their investments. “For our business, I see our stage enlarging to Africa, especially where we can provide quality virtual or in-person consulting and training services where ever you may be. The world needs us to build capacity in Africa,” she said. She stressed the importance of defining dreams and taking action daily to make them a reality.