Nigeria’s German coach Gernot Rohr has identified three key areas to enhance Super Eagles’ improvement in future international assignments after their third-place finish at the recently concluded Total Africa Cup of Nations Egypt 2019. In a special post mortem interview, the former Bayern Munich defender said the Super Eagles did well by winning at least the bronze medal, adding that the future of Nigeria’s national team is bright despite obvious challenges in the wake of retirement of captain Mikel Obi and striker Odion Ighalo after the curtain was drawn on the 22nd edition of the AFCON in Cairo.   “Now, we have some challenges,” the 66-year-old and vastly experienced coach began in an exclusive interview with The Nation. “Before, we had goalkeeping challenges before going to the AFCON because we can’t say clearly this was the number one goalkeeper of our team.  “But now our captain has retired and our top goal scorer at the AFCON has also retired, it’s a new challenge for us. “So these positions; goalkeepers, goal-scorers and captain, are key to the success of any team and we must therefore look for ways of solving those challenges,” noted Rohr in an interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Excerpts…  GOING to the AFCON, what was your objective with the Super Eagles? Our objective going to the AFCON in Egypt was to win at least a medal; and we brought home this bronze medal which was nice being the first medal at the AFCON since 2013. Don’t forget we had 24 teams at this AFCON, which makes it a bit difficult to win because we had all the best teams in attendance.  We were number three from number 11 on the continent going to the AFCON and I told my officials that we must not come back from the AFCON going down below that level; we were close to doing very better and very, very close but for that last few seconds in the semi-final match against Algeria. It was a wonderful adventure and it was nice we didn’t fall below our target and I’m happy that Nigerians largely appreciated our efforts and most people know we would have done better with some luck too. What’s your take about the fact that we lost to Algeria the same way we lost to Argentina at the World Cup because we couldn’t manage the game well in the last few minutes? So, we are starting with this negative souvenir which was the loss to Algeria (general laughter). But Algeria had probably the best team at the AFCON because they were the only team that won all their seven matches. But I would say we had more or less equal performance against them and even better when you see the statistics; because we had more shots at the goal, more corners and even more possession. In the game against Algeria, we had more unfortunate events because we had an own goal. And I would say Algeria was very lucky at the AFCON. Look at the lucky goal they also scored against Senegal in the final, I think they are the luckiest team at the AFCON though they are a good side too. After the own goal by Ekong, we fought back and got the equaliser and I think we would have been better at the end but for that free kick we conceded in the 95th minute. I think we made a good wall and one of the players was going down just in case Mahrez wanted to hit the ball on the ground; the little mistake was the misstep by the goalkeeper a little bit to the left while Mahrez shot the ball to the right. But overall, Daniel Akpeyi did well against Algeria and he even saved us on one-on-one situation earlier in the game in the first half. Of course, there were mistakes but we lived with individual mistakes throughout the tournament because most of the goals we conceded were as a result of individual mistakes and not due to lack of organisation or as a result of superior quality by our opponents. All the time we fought back well but we didn’t have the time to bounce back against Algeria. Frankly, Algeria was lucky but they deserved to win the AFCON because they were the only team that won all their seven matches. We played good football and those who watched the technicalities knew we played better and this was shown in the quality of the goals we scored because they were as result of planning and organisation. Sometimes, we have to look above the result and look at the way the team played and I want to think we did well because our style was to construct and work out our victory. Despite losing to Algeria in the semi-finals, we reacted well three days later and beat Tunisia which is the second ranked team in Africa. We had the top scorer in Odion Ighalo and you can see that he’s a technical and aesthetic striker with the kind of goal he scored against Burundi and Cameroon for instance. What were other positives you took away from the AFCON that can help the Super Eagles in the future? Most of what I have said so far is positives. We played good football which everybody that watched with technicalities would agree with me. We had the top scorer and we also have a lot of young players in the team and they did well. We were unlucky and made mistakes in the defence, but we played good football at the AFCON. We had five victories and two defeats but we had already qualified when we lost to Madagascar. The match only gave me the opportunity to see the reaction of the other players; and you know it’s not the same ambition for the players once we had qualified for the next round after winning our first two matches. We used the match against Madagascar to look at other players and we were able to see the second and local goalkeeper (Ikechukwu Ezenwa) and we gave competitions to John Ogu, Leon Balogun, and Samuel Kalu whom we wanted to see after his collapse. So you can say we didn’t have our best team against Madagascar but that it’s not to say Madagascar is not a good side. They were the first team to qualify for the AFCON even before all the other teams and they have a good fighting spirit. I think losing to Madagascar made us to be humble; and we showed out true colour against Cameroon and South Africa.  Positive also because we were able to give our captain John Mikel a goodbye with a medal. He was a good captain and I’m happy he went out with a medal around his neck. It was a difficult decision for me to take him (Mikel) to the AFCON because he didn’t come around for almost one year after the World Cup in Russia. I’m also proud that we had the top scorer; it’s a reflection of the style of football that we played at the AFCON. We did not also concede penalties at the AFCON because if you can remember we conceded two penalties in three matches in Russia. Individually and collectively, there were positives and I can’t forget the support of our Nigerian and Egyptian fans throughout the tournament. I asked our TLO (Team Liaison Officer) why Egyptians fans like us and he told me ‘they like your young team and the fact that your team play good football.’ We gave a positive image about Nigeria everywhere we went to in Alexandria, Ismailia and Cairo; positive image of Nigeria. They gave Leon Balogun and me good birthdays and I was really impressed. Football is beyond winning and losing; it involves what can also happen in human relationships.  We had the best solidarity within the team with the players, with the technical, medical staff and other backroom staff. We had excellent relationship. Going forward, do you have quality replacements for your two retired experienced players, I mean Mikel and Ighalo? Now, we have some challenges. Before, we had goalkeeping challenges before going to the AFCON because we can’t say clearly this was the number one goalkeeper of our team.  We had Uzoho as number one at the World Cup in Russia but, unfortunately, he didn’t play at the club level for almost the whole season. I sent our goalkeeper trainer Pionetti to go and work with him; I tried all that was possible because I wanted the best opportunity for our goalkeeper. It was working until he made that mistake against Seychelles and we reviewed the situation with our goalkeeper coach, Alloy Agu, who is also a very good goalkeeper coach. It was then that we decided that we must give Daniel Akpeyi and Ezenwa the opportunity because they were both playing for their clubs; we used both of them for the friendly match against Egypt and they did well. We saw all of them during training sessions and with specific briefing by Alloy Agu, Ezenwa was becoming the number one but unfortunately he had a knee injury in Asaba. So going to the AFCON, Akpeyi became number one, Ezenwa number two and Uzoho number three. So we started with Akpeyi at the AFCONN and he had clean sheets in the first two matches; we then had Ezenwa for the game against Madagascar and the two mistakes did not help him. The deflected ball from Ndidi and the gift from Balogun!  At training we saw that Uzoho was pushing well and that was why he was used in the last game against Tunisia and I think he did well. So these positions; goalkeepers, goal-scorers and captain are key to the success of any team and we must therefore look for ways of solving those challenges. So what’s the future now after Ighalo and Mikel retire? Of course, we have young strikers but none of them can suddenly be like Ighalo; now I remember all what the critics were saying when I invited Ighalo after the Russia 2018 and some of those things just make me laugh now. Mikel was a good captain and he could also speak to officials because of his experience, intelligence and aura. Now we have Musa as the captain and I know he can produce the kind of good form he had at the World Cup though he was not at the same level at the AFCON. So it’s going to be a big challenge for us to have a real great goalkeeper though I have already someone in my heart,  Maduka  Okoye, who is playing in Germany with Fortuna Dusseldorf and we are also hopeful that Uzoho can now play regularly after his transfer to Ammonia Nicosia in Cyprus. I’m working for the future and I think the future is bright even with these obvious challenges. We still had one of the youngest teams with an average age of 24 and some people have queried why I always emphasise that we are still a young team. But it’s a reality and there is nothing we can debate about that because it’s just the reality. We’re (Super Eagles) young and we are progressing. Are you bothered by all the criticisms against your coaching style especially about managing matches and players? The truth is that I don’t allow all the criticisms to get to me. And the only thing that would bother me is when promises are not kept and disrespect to what I’m doing. I would be bothered if there is a lack of understanding, lack of sincerity and honesty; lack of respect and confidence. Criticism is a normal thing in football. I don’t allow it to affect my work. There is so much passion for football in this country and so many people just want to express their opinions; it’s normal with many bloggers who just want to write even crazy stuff but I don’t go there to read what they write. One thing I would like to do if I’m still here is to let the players understand that they don’t need to devote their time to what’s said about them on the social media because they can go crazy with some of the things some people would say or write about them. There have been so much reports about your salary issue, what is the true position of things? The truth is that I don’t and it is never my style to speak about money. And I’m not going to start talking about salary now because it has never been my style. Even if I leave this job today I won’t say anything because in France we say ‘ne lavez pas vontre linge sale en public’ (you don’t wash your dirty linen in public). If I have anything to say, I speak with the NFF President (Amaju Pinnick) privately and face to face.