Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Sunday announced a scholarship award to Jemimah Jatau, the best graduating fellow of the Kashim Ibrahim Fellows (KIF), a one-year leadership programme of the state government. El-Rufai announced the offer in Kaduna, at the graduation ceremony of the pioneer set of the KIF programme. “The Fellows have justified the hopes invested in them,” the governor said of the 16-member pioneer group of the scheme that brings together young Nigerians from across the country. He explained Jatau would be sponsored for a Masters degree at Harvard or the Lee Kwan Yew School of Public Policy, while the second and third best would be appointed as his special assistants. He identified the second and third best as Mohammed Usman and Leonel Echa. He added that the chairman of the Governing Board, Keem Belo-Osagie, would equally pursue scholarship opportunities in the Knight Hennessy Fellowship at Stanford University for interested members of the graduating set. He explained that the Kaduna State Government introduced the KIF programme in 2018 to help develop and nurture leadership ability across Nigeria. “The overall mission is to raise the next generation of leaders who will most likely be absorbed into the Nigerian public sector having had a first-hand experience of its workings and challenges. “This is because we believe in our young people; these 16 youths, from different places and backgrounds, have amply affirmed that youthful potential abound in Nigeria. “The graduating Fellows have validated our conviction that the youth of our country can respond to opportunity if the platform is provided. “We have exposed the fellows to a rich and varied programme of immersion in the daily work of government agencies, lectures and seminars on leadership, working trips and speaker series. “This enabled them to share from the experiences and insights of leaders in government, business and other endeavours. “We have made considerable investments in these fellows as a deliberate intervention in building leadership capacity and promoting a meritocratic culture. “As they graduate today, they have been empowered to assume responsibilities of leadership, and contribute to helping our country to master the challenges of an increasingly complex and more competitive world,” he said. The governor explained that the programme was named after Sir Kashim Ibrahim, a former Governor of Northern Region for his leadership role in building the region when the colonial shackles were dropped. “I am especially proud and impressed by the energy, zeal, talent and ability of the pioneer set of Kashim Ibrahim Fellows, who have set a remarkable standard for future participants in the programme. “As the pioneer fellows graduate today, we look forward to welcoming the second set in August,” he said. The graduating fellows have described the initiative as ‘life changing’, adding that the programme had completely changed their orientation and perspective about effective leadership and public service. Jemimah Jatau, from Jaba Local Government Area of Kaduna State, particularly thanked the state government for the opportunity to participate in the programme. She described the scholarship award as a testimony of the government’s confidence on the youth. Another participant, Michael Medubi, a 35-year old Civil Engineer from Kogi State, described the programme as ‘priceless and a golden opportunity to learn and create new network.’ (NAN)