Fireworks preceding Senate hearing Excerpts from the book, ‘Revolution of Accountancy Profession in Nigeria’ written by Olumuyiwa Sosanya, founding father of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN). ANAN on the other hand, says categorically that, only our institutions of higher learning should form the basis of accounting training, so as to expose the future accountants to the liberal education which these higher institutions provide. On graduation, from these higher institutions with either a degree or HND in accountancy, the graduate should proceed to the Nigerian College of Accountancy (being established and administered by ANAN) for one academic session. At the College, the graduate would be exposed to the professional aspects of the profession, under a proper atmosphere which is conducive for learning. The successful student from the college becomes automatically a qualified professional accountant after two years supervised accountant-in-training programme in accountancy practical experience in any facet of the economy. But, if he wishes to practise as an external auditor, he would attach himself to a practising firm for one year or two years as practitioner assistant, depending on where the accountant-in-training programme was undertaken. Thereafter, he would be issued with a practicing certificate.” Standards With regard to standards, ANAN is of the view that there should be a Public Auditors Board, to set standards of practice and enforce them on all public practicing accountants in the country. There is no gainsaying it that the two plans presented above, exhibit the sincerity of ANAN to produce more and better qualified professional accountants to meet the demand of the Nigerian economy. The ICAN plan, which is designed to subject university graduates to the humiliating practice of articleship, is nothing less than a master- servant relationship. There is no guarantee, that the university graduates and the GCE (5 O’ level) holders would have time, books and facilities to study and pass the examination. The ANAN plan of Nigerian College of Accountancy is the superior and obvious answer. Foreign Accountants There is yet, a more serious aspect to the ongoing debate. This concerns the position of foreign accountants. Before we state the position as it is with ICAN today, it will be more interesting to quote from the Hansard of 4th May, 1965 during the debate on ICAN Bill. Mr. N. Nwanodi (Ahoada Central) made the following reservations while contributing to the debate. “The first reservation is this: Glancing through the whole pages of the Bill, nothing has been said about the position of expatriate accountants in this country. Now, those of us who are members of the legal profession have had the benefit of a lot of exercise on the question of whether expatriate lawyers should be allowed to practise in Nigeria or not. Now, some of us have held the view that on this subject, the law of competition is the best. But, at least, one formal Honourable Minister who has now been forced to take up his wig and gown, has come out quite boldly to say that it is high time something was done about expatriate lawyers practising in this country. I wonder whether someone should not also sound a note of warning about expatriate professional accountants practising in this country. But increasing experience has shown that just as the law of supply and demand has failed the classical economics, so has the law of competition failed in the question of professional practice in Nigeria, for the simple reason that, in fact one can say that the worst tribalists in the world are Non-Nigerians, when it comes to matters of pounds, shillings and pence.” Here again ICAN has been found wanting. The Institute has about 200 foreigners on its membership list. Some of these foreigners are not even resident in Nigeria. The Institute has been able to efficiently indulge foreign accountants practising, even as auditors. This is in spite of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Act. Some greedy members of ICAN, have as a matter of fact, acted as fronts for foreign accounting firms in this wise. It is also sad to note that most foreign companies retain foreign practising firms as their auditors, to the very knowledge of ICAN members. One more quotation from the Hansard of 4th May, 1965. Mr. M. Urhoro (Urhobo West) had this to say on the powers of the Council. “I have a quarrel with section 2 of this schedule which is titled Powers of Council. Under this section it is stated: The Council shall have power to do anything which in its opinion is calculated to facilitate the carrying on of the activities of the Institute. I am saying that, this particular phraseology is a wide one indeed. I think it would enable the Institute to do anything. I would say that the activities of the Institute, in this regard, should be subject to the approval of the Minister. As it is, it is a blank cheque and the powers conferred on the Institute by this provision of this section are just too wide.” With these wide powers, ICAN Council has for sixteen years been squeezing the Nigerian economy by starving it of adequate supply of professional accountants. These repressive powers ICAN have for sixteen years, locked out the graduates of Nigerian institutions of higher learning. With these obnoxious powers, ICAN went on to produce only 180 accountants through its own examinations between 1965 and May 1981. Whereas, during the same period, 3,800 lawyers passed through the Nigerian Law School, which recruits its students from the universities. In spite of the serious observations made in 1965 by Honourable Members of the House of Representatives, the Minister of Education then affirmed that the Council of ICAN would “use their good sense and see that justice is done. Now that we have discovered that ICAN has no good sense to do justice, it is our candid opinion that the Nigerian nation can no longer rely on the poor sense of ICAN. There must be another body to compete with it. ANAN should receive the legal recognition which it deserves. And as a matter of urgency, the Nigerian Public Auditors Board Bill should be placed before the National Assembly and passed into Law immediately. The highlights of the Nigerian Public Auditors Board Bill, is the total ban on all foreign accountants from establishing practising firms, and the total ban on any firm of accountants to audit any organisation for more than three years. Let there be more than one accountancy body to train and produce professional accountants, and let the Nigerian Public Auditors Board look after the issue of standards and ethics of accounting profession in Nigeria.