Dear reader, it’s an honour to bring God’s Word your way today. It is my prayer that all you have learnt from these teachings since the month began, will build your family and life, thereby attracting constant blessing to your home. One of God’s blessing in marriage is fruitfulness. This entails both fruitfulness in your physical body and the works of your hand. God has ordained you to be fruitful. The first family that ever existed was born into abundance. The Bible says, male and female created he them and God blessed them and said ‘Be FRUITFUL have dominion over fish…fowl and EVERY living thing. I have given you EVERY herb, EVERY tree to you (Genesis 1:27-29). This as an example tells us that abundance talks of surplus, more than enough, prosperity, excess, plenty, an increase. The Lord’s desire for your home is abundance. Prosperity is meant to be your portion not only in your office, Church, or with friends, but most especially in your home. God has said to you concerning your home that it shall be: … a watered garden and like a spring of water whose waters fail not (Isaiah 58:11). ‘Fail not’ means you will not be short of provisions at home both spiritually and physically. Thou shalt have goats’ milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens (Proverbs 27:27). Yet you are wondering: Why is God slow concerning His promises? Has He changed His mind concerning me? Is He angry with me?  Maybe He has not forgiven me that sin I confessed to Him the other day? Or that one committed in my youth? The Lord is a God of mercy and slow to anger, at the same time He is a Holy God who is purer eyes than to behold sin in your life (Habakkuk 1:13). He wants your home not only to reflect increase, blessing and joy but to reflect holiness, righteousness, grace and peace. Both sides of the coin are necessary: you can’t have one side without the other. You can’t desire the Lord’s prosperity and increase in your home and reject His holiness and righteousness. The Word of God says: Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you: for I called him alone, and BLESSED him and INCREASED him (Isaiah 51:2). Abraham our father of faith enjoyed abundance and: …was VERY RICH in cattle, in silver and in gold (Genesis 13:2). But how did the Lord bless Abraham?  Did he just wake up one day and see riches, cattle, men and maid servants, etc.?  No!  The Lord was able to bless Abraham and his household because he fulfilled a major requirement. The Word of God says: …Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do; …For I know him, that HE WILL COMMAND HIS CHILDREN  AND HIS HOUSEHOLD AFTER HIM, and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken to him  (Genesis 18:17-19). The Lord’s will and desire is to see you and your household swim in abundance but are you willing to fulfill the requirements? That is, will you command your children and household to follow the Lord or will you turn away from God when abundance arrives? God can’t afford to bless some men financially because they just use the money to acquire more wives and begin to do things that cause their household to turn from God. It was Abraham’s diligence in commanding his children (household) in God’s ways that secured abundance for him and generations after. He was not only an example of what the Lord required.  God was able to say, “I know him.  He will make sure everyone follows his example. In your home, can you boldly say others can follow your lifestyle?  Can they look at how you live and see God’s glory, holiness and commendation?  If you can’t answer this questions positively then something is wrong somewhere. Don’t be too quick to say, “yes” but closely examine your lifestyle.  Can you tell the little children at home to follow your example and God will be pleased with them?  The Lord knew Abraham was able to do this.  From the passage, the Lord reveals something vital to us. “…that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him”.  The fervency which Abraham gave to conduct his life and the life of his household, according to God’s Word, determined how much of God’s abundance and prosperity he enjoyed.   It was Abraham’s diligence in applying God’s Word that secured God’s blessings and abundance for him.  You need to follow the instructions you have heard God speak concerning your home, your family, your marriage, your parents, before you can see his promises come true in your life.  For almost every instruction God gives, there is a reward; for almost every reward or promise of God there is a responsibility. Abundance in your family life is the Lord’s desire for you. However, it must be accompanied by a God-fearing lifestyle for not only you but all under your roof. Note: There is no success without a successor. Abundance in the home is not just financial wealth. You can have all the money in the world and still not be prosperous. Also, you can have all the children, furniture or possessions you want and still be lacking in true prosperity. You may ask: How do I enjoy abundance in my home?  The Lord Jesus said: The thief comes only in order that he may steal and may kill and may destroy. I came that they may have and enjoy life, and have it in ABUNDANCE to the full, till it overflows (John10:10 Amp). The Lord’s presence in your heart and home is the first step to fruitfulness. Allow Jesus to come into your heart now and your story will change. If you want to accept Jesus as your Lord and personal Saviour, then say this prayer in faith: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204. For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).