Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has insisted that he had no preferred candidate for the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state. Dickson in a statement by the Special Adviser, Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, called on Bayelsans to discountenance aspirants claiming to have his endorsement. The governor said that he would commence intensified consultations with aspirants and critical stakeholders at the national and state levels of the PDP following the conclusion of the sale of the gubernatorial nomination forms for the next election. Dickson also promised to work closely with the party leadership to ensure the conduct of credible, free and fair primaries in Bayelsa. He said while the aspirants, who picked the party’s nomination reserved the right to pursue their ambition, the leadership of the party would watch and monitor the buildup to primaries. He said he remained committed to his earlier stance that there was no anointed aspirant in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. He said: “Now that the collection of gubernatorial forms have ended, the leadership of the party in the state wishes to say that there is no anointed aspirant against the practice in those states where outgoing governors endorse one single aspirant. “I decided to open the state for people in my government,my team and other members of the party who have interest to indicate their interest I promise the state that there would be no imposition so would it be. “The aspirants who have bought firms have the right to express their ambition but the state leadership òf the party should watch keenly. I am following the comments and making observations and in appropriate cases making consultations. “Now that the end of purchase of forms have come, I will intensify consultations both with aspirants, party leaders and other stakeholders “And at the end of the day, I intend to work with the party at the national and state levels to ensure that there is a free and fair election. Those using my name should be disregarded, it is not true, I have not endorsed anybody yet”.