Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders have lauded the dispute resolution mechanism adopted by its national leadership on the protracted acrimony within the chapter, describing it as meticulous. A former lawmaker representing Idanre/Ifedore federal constituency Bamidele Baderinwa (White) and a party stalwart, Bayo Ologbese, lauded the step taken by the national leadership towards reconciling aggrieved members of the party. Baderinwa hailed the visit of the national leaders, led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and other leaders to find a truce. The former lawmaker, who spoke while receiving members of his campaign team who paid him a condolence visit on the death of his sister, Mrs Mary Adegoroye, said the meeting would foster unity among members ahead of future elections. He said: “The reconciliation move if genuinely adhere to will bring about the desire peace in Ondo APC, members involved must accept the peace resolution. Baderinwa thanked his campaign group for their loyalty and support during his tenure at the eighth assembly and their efforts for his re-election bid in the 2019 National Assembly election. He attributed his loss at the poll to the anti-party activities of major stakeholders in the state and appealed for genuine reconciliation. Ologbese said the fortune of the party should be paramount to all stakeholders, who had sacrificed to ensure that APC became a ruling party in the state after 2016 polls. He urged all factions within the party to embrace unity and peace in order to forge ahead. He noted that if these groups aligned and champion a common goal,the party would rule beyond 2021. The APC chieftain hailed Asiwaju  Tinubu, Chiefs Bisi Akande, and Aremo Segun Osoba for sparing their time to study the crack in the party and take urgent step to reconcile the warring factions without supporting any group. He also commended the convener of the meeting, Chief Pius Akinyelure,the former National Vice Chairman (Southwest) of the APC for his political sagacity.