President Muhammadu Buhari has sent warm felicitations to former Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, who turns 90 today. The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) also congratulated the first civilian governor on his birthday.Buhari congratulated him for courage in pursuing a vibrant career in journalism and leaving a lasting legacy in politics and governance. The President, in a statement by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, joined family, friends, professional and political associates in celebrating the milestone with the former governor and Minister of Works, whose sacrifice and large-heartedness saw the implementation of many developmental projects in Lagos like free education and low cost housing, with many beneficiaries. The party described Jakande as a pacesetter in the development of the state, adding that Lagos is benefitting immensely from his enviable foresight. Its Publicity Secretary, Comrade Joe Igbokwe, said in a statement that the former governor’s social, economic and political feats have remained a reference point. He added: “The party sees Jakande as a man in peace with his environment after making the environment livable for the tens of millions of Lagosians, who are still savouring his legacies in all sectors of governance. “Alhaji Jakande is a hero of the development of Lagos and we see what Lagos is today as fruit of his foresight, which he brought into governance for the four years he was governor of the state. “His footprints in the educational, housing, transport, health, social investment sectors are still standing today as worthy testimonials to his governance credentials and are credible proof to the quality of leadership he provided for Lagos. “We celebrate Alhaji Jakande as a foremost progressive, whose commitment to the welfare of all Lagosians and Nigerians is beyond comparison.” We celebrate him as a living godfather of the Lagos success story and see him as a reference to all that is good and desirable with Lagos. “As he continues to celebrate his birthday, we pray that Alhaji Jakande still receives the special favour of God to be with us for many more years. We pray that his countless legacies in all spheres of leadership continue to remain with us and we pray that generations yet unborn get to know the history of this great man and his worthy contributions to Lagos and Nigeria. “Congratulations to Baba Kekere and may you live longer for us and indeed all Lagosians and Nigerians to continue celebrating you.”