The golden age of 50, they say, is the age of full maturity and adulthood. But for Dr. Oluwatosin Dokpesi, Managing Director, Africa Independent Television, AIT and wife of its founder, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, it is a time to take stock of her achievements, blessings and much more. Adebayo Bodunrin, a journalist with AIT/Ray Power FM, Abuja, writes. GOOD head and good heart are always formidable combination. But when you add to that a literate tongue or pen, then you have something special” – Nelson Mandela. Many may not know this, but the Managing Director of Africa Independent Television, AIT, Dr.  Oluwatosin Folake Abimbola Dokpesi, falls into the category of people Mandela had in mind, especially when the subject of discussion is journalism of social relevance. This type of journalism can only be driven by thorough and politically conscious professionals who see themselves as crusaders for the good of the society, agenda setters and sticklers to media ethics. Tosin, as she is fondly called in Nigerian media circles, did not originate the journalistic philosophy known as social relevance. That credit belongs to the New Trend Movement within the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, in the 1980s and 1990s. But she is one of its foremost exponents. While she sermonises that a media outfit must be run as a big business, she also believes that the outfit must enjoy its unfettered independence. That is not all. She wants media professionals to be truly professional in words and deeds, as well as develop unquestionable appetite for skills acquisition to enable them fulfill their mission in the society. For Tosin, broadcast journalism is not just a calling but a passion. Her credo is shaped by a selfless consideration for the good of the society. Anything to the contrary is instinctively offensive and repugnant to her cherished rules of conscientious journalism or journalism of social relevance. She has so far spent 26-years of her adult life as a broadcaster. On Friday, July 12, 2019, Tosin stepped out in style to celebrate her 50th birthday. It was her finest hour. Family members, friends, associates, school mates, numerous admirers and of course members of the DAAR   Family converged in Guzape in Abuja to honour her for her accomplishments so far. It was time for joy, a moment for celebration, as the drums were rolled out. Name it, the gangan, (talking drum), iya ilu (mother of all drums), sekere, trumpets and flutes, all combined to provide good music for admirable dancing steps. Oluwatosin, which means God is worthy of worship and praise, has every reason to be joyful. First, this birthday symbolised the age of full adulthood and maturity. Also, the attainment of the golden age is a unique opportunity, which only a few are privileged to reach in a country ravaged by malnutrition, poverty, insecurity, and where hospitals are mere consulting clinics. It is also heart-warming to have Tosin alive to celebrate her birthday this year, having escaped death by the whiskers three years ago. The date was Saturday, June 4, 2016. Her husband and media mogul, High Chief Raymond Aleogho Dokpesi was a target of an assassination squad, precisely a gang of four bandits. The gunmen had trailed his tinted vehicle to a private hospital in Abuja and accosted it. Dokpesi was not in the vehicle. But his wife, Tosin with two of her relatives, a driver and a police detail were. As providence would have it, Tosin had just left the vehicle for the hospital, having complained of serious stomach cramps, when the attackers released a hail of bullets, leaving the police detail, Sergeant Den Gaius dead, riddled with bullets. However, birthdays by themselves could turn out to be meaningless – for it is not how long but how well. More appropriately, as Peter, not Peter the apostle but the hero of Hugh Walpole’s novel entitled ‘Fortitude,’ put it in that ageless saying popularised by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo in his famous 1963 Allocutus speech, “It isn’t life that matter but the courage you bring to it.” But what is it about Tosin that excites? Is it her goodness? Or her outstanding positive values? In her early life, Tosin had a flair for the sciences. She actually went ahead to earn a degree in Zool ogy. Her unalterable destiny made her to discover, sooner, her love for broadcast journalism. She returned to her alma mater, University of Lagos to horn her skills in broadcast journalism. Today, she is glad that her abandonment of sciences for broadcasting was worth it. Tosin began her career as a TV presenter at Multimedia Limited. She later joined Clapper Board Television in 1994, also as a presenter. In 1996, she joined DAAR Communications Plc. It was in a new era when bold moves were taken to end the worrying monologue in the polity which government’s hold on broadcasting represented. The company launched RAYPOWER 100.5FM on September 1, 1994. It was the first private radio and broadcast outfit in Nigeria. With the resounding success of Raypower, it was soon followed by the establishment of Africa Independent Television, AIT, the first satellite TV channel in Nigeria on December 6, 1996. Though Tosin was first engaged as a presenter and newscaster with Raypower FM, her performance caught the attention of the management, which in 1996 moved her to AIT, as one of the pioneer staff. In the last 23 years, she has operated in various capacities as a programme officer, programme anchor, newscaster, Head, Domestic and International Operations and top level managerial positions. But the role that by far propelle d her into limelight was her deep involvement as one of the pioneer anchors of KAKAAKI, a breakfast show. Without gainsaying, it could be safely said that AIT, through KAKAAKI, set the pace for virtually every other TV station in Nigeria today. Tosin proved her mettle as one of the pioneer anchors of the now 22-year-old programme – meticulous, courageous, unassuming, knowledgeable, discipline, consistent, and above all, a stickler to media ethics. Literally, she became that broadcaster by whom anybody could set their compass on the job. My path first crossed Tosin’s at the take off of KAKAAKI; till date, she asks the tough and thought-provoking questions with simplicity, openness, respect and bluntness associated with the Grand Masters of the profession. Her experience and performance as a programme presenter put her in the same class as my Editor at the Punch and later Vanguard Newspapers, Muyiwa Adetiba, who distinguished himself in the craft of interviewing in the 1970s and 1980s. There is a consensus within and outside the DAAR Family that Tosin is unarguably a fine professional, a consummate and ultimate broadcaster. Presently, Tosin is Managing Director, Africa Independent Television, AIT, a subsidiary of DAAR Communications Plc. In this capacity, she is wearing two caps – participating actively and constructively in all activities and strategies that will elevate DAAR to its targeted stratosphere, and exhibiting commendable panache of a modern day corporate manager with deep commitment to team work, strict but compassionate. Of all her traits, some do stick out like a pot belly on a skinny man. These of course would be her humility, religiousity, accessibility, kind-heartedness and forthrightness. Tosin has also been part of the pioneering efforts to turn an idea into reality. As wife of the visioner and founder of Raypower FM, AIT and Faaji FM later in her life, she has been playing a supportive role to High Chief Raymond Aleogho Dokpesi to consolidate his foray into broadcasting. Today, DAAR Communications Plc has secured its place in history following the deregulation of broadcasting in 1992 by military President Ibrahim Babangida and cannot be denied its enormous pioneering efforts and contributions to the development of private broadcasting in Nigeria. DAAR has in its 26 years of existence, taught the nation that round-the-clock broadcasting is possible and practicable. The company has also left no one in doubt that the political decision to deregulate broadcasting was well taken, as nobody is being denied his or her right to choose any longer. Another major contribution of DAAR is that it has over the years served  as a breeding ground for top flight professionals, one of such being Tosin herself. In a strict sense, she cannot be categorised as a radical, anti-establishment agitator or ideological extremist, but she exhibits extra-ordinary commitment to uplifting the society and offering selfless service to humanity. She is well immersed in various women groups aimed at championing the good of the society, and is an unyielding advocate of child rights. These, are aside her philanthropy. One of the fathers of Nigerian Journalism, Lateef Kayode Jakande, once said ‘Journalism trains practitioners to become leaders and administrators.’ One can therefore say that Tosin is now a leader and administrator in the media industry. But at 50, the velvet voiced broadcaster is still dreaming. She is not under any illusion and believes like reggae musician, Jim Cliff, sang several years ago, there are still more rivers to cross to attain and remain a professional prodigy and icon. Happy and memorable birthday, Mama Tee. ADEBAYO BODUNRIN is a Journalist with AIT/RAYPOWER FM, ABUJA.