Super Falcon striker and FC Barcelona female forward, Asisat Oshoala has urged African parents to support their girl child who aspire to become professional footballers. Oshoala during a courtesy visit to the Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, on Wednesday July 10, 2019, said many African parents often shun their children especially the young girls to pursue a career in the professional football because they want them to focus education. She said some even send these young girls hawking in order to distort their intention of playing the game of football. Oshoala said can feel the pains as she also passed through the same stage but she followed her dream when the opportunity comes her way. “I am trying to change the mentality and help this generation to believe they can achieve whatever they want. With my foundation, I want to help the under-privileged girls, so that they attend school and play football at the same time.” Asisat Oshoala Foundation, a non-profit organisation is committed to improve the physical, social and intellectual development of the girl child through education and sports. The foundation also put in place a mentorship programme parents. Over the years, the foundation in conjunction with the Lagos State Government and Emzor Pharmaceuticals have partnered in empowering and educating the girl child in Lagos state. Recently, Oshoala signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Barcelona’s Femini to partner the foundation in the areas of technical support during her football clinic for girls in Lagos. “Every year we organise a football clinic where hundreds of young girls, including parents were enlighten and education on how their female children can become a professional footballer. Some of these kids are now trained with a football academy, FC Robo, her in Lagos. “One of them, Chidima Okeke was recently participated at the just-concluded Female World Cup,” said Oshoala who is the First Ever African to play/score in a UEFA champion’s league final game. Oshoala, who also the Lagos State Government Anti-Drug Ambassador, further said for her to sensitize and preaches to young ones against drug/substance abuse she usually join them in their training. This, she said will motivate them to be believe in their inner strength and desist from any form of drug abuse. As an ambassador of Emzor, Oshoala who recently signed a deal with one of the biggest clubs in world football FC Barcelona appreciate the company for their contribution and support her brand, saying, “we don’t really have companies that are passion to support female football in Nigeria. For almost four years, Emzor has continues to sponsors the national football teams including Super Eagles and Super Falcons.” Executive Director, Emzor Pharmaceuticals, Uzoma Ezeoke stated that the company recognized how Oshoala is determine and passion on helping the girl child, it is with this reason we partner with her foundation. “As you continue to soar higher, we are solidly behind you,” Ezeoke said. She, however, urged parents to pay attention to their female child same way they do to the male, so that we can become the future champion of tomorrow. In the same vein, Mark Redguard, Emzor Branding and Marketing consultant described Oshoala as an inspiration to African women. “Whether on or off the pitch, Asisat Oshoala has continued to inspire African women across age groups. She demonstrates this, by empowering them with life skills and football development charity initiatives. In line with Emzor’s trailblazing efforts, we restate our commitment to Asisat, our brand ambassador and hope that she can continue to inspire more.” 