A non-governmental organisation, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF Nigeria), has trained young women and girls on infographic technology. The organisation said this would enable them become skillful and relevant in the present digital world. AHF Nigeria’s Advocacy and Marketing Manager, Steve Aborisade, stated this at the Data Visualisation Training (Infographic Technology), in Abuja. He said the training would provide them the needed requisite skills to advocate on issues that form challenges to the full realisation of the potentials that young women and girls can bring to bear on their wellbeing through the strategic medium of infographics. In a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, Aborisade said the Programme `STYLE UP’ has two components: Girls Act Initiative and Boys 2 Men. “This training comes under AHF Girls Act and, was aimed at empowering young women and girl with the necessary skills to enable them survive in a digital society,” he said. He added: “It is important to work with young women and girls because they are a marginalised group and disproportionately affected by the social impact of our nation’s disease burden, poverty and lack commensurate opportunities as boys and men. “The data visualisation training will empower them with skills to enable them take advantage of the new opportunities that IT offers for self-sustenance but, importantly to equip this group with the know how to strategically advocate for the issues paramount to them and draw the right attention while attracting the needed solutions to them. “We hope to see young people who are able to use the knowledge of data analysis and interpretation to bring solutions on issues that affect them, as well as challenges that they encounter in having a say about negotiating safe sex, sexual and reproductive health services and other life choice.” According to him, the knowledge acquired from the training would enable them use graphics to instigate actions, interpret ideas, and draw attention to issues and to suggest solutions and become empowered to make a living through offering those services to others. A Communication Strategist, Bamishe Aregbeshola, said the training was aimed at how participants can acquire the prerequisite knowledge on how to use infographics to communicate the ideas that they have to their peers and community. Aregbeshola, who was the facilitator of the training explained that research had shown that it was a lot easier to pass information through videos and graphics as people tend to understand them better compered to when processed in text. “The way the brain maps information, is that the mind picks pictures faster however with text the mind has to translate the text into pictures first, so it takes a longer time for the mind to interpret such kind of information. “The training will effectively empower them to go into their communities and optimise the use of the new media to effectively communicate to people faster and better. “The world is fast growing into digital world and in terms of skill acquisition it is important that everyone acquire a prerequisite knowledge on digital skill in irrespective of their line of work to stay relevant. “The Government can create more platforms for young people to learn in order to improve on their skills as well as pupils in secondary schools and universities to help in researches and presentations,’’ he said. A participant, Anita Ikwe, commended AHF for the training, saying the training would enable her find new ways of identifying problems in the society and to find better ways of disseminating information through graphics. She said: “The training would help me immensely especially on issues relating to people living with HIV and AIDS. “It will enable me use graphic approach to identify problems and disseminate information on issues of self-discrimination, disclosure, adherence, and other challenges persons living with HIV are encountering.”