Paralyzed by polio at age two, Kola Olugbodi, CEO, Background Check International, always knew life was going to be tough; but he never reckoned how, until when, as a seven-year-old, he was left to save himself in the face of an approaching fearsome masquerade. He spoke to Gboyega Alaka about that defining moment, his struggle to win his life partner, infertility, failed businesses, can-do spirit and why he decided to document all in his book, ‘Through It All’. Through it all is quite an interesting book; brief, inspirational and faith-inspiring; what was the idea behind it? If you read Through It All, you will discover that it has a lot of spiritual connotations. There is a passage in the Bible, Corinthians II, Chapter 1 vs. 3 that says that “Thanks be to God, the father of comfort. He comforts us in all our troubles, so that we also can comfort others. That is the wisdom behind Through It All. Obviously my wife and I went through a lot of things- from polio to the challenges of ‘You can do this, you cannot do that;’ and then of course growing up and having challenges of whom you’re going to marry. Then infertility. And of course, starting business and watching it go under; having issues where I worked, such that I needed God to bail me out…. I went through so many things that when people find themselves there, they either sink or just resign themselves to fate. So I thought I owe it to humanity to get them encouraged by the story of my life. Reading that memoir, one could see a person who doesn’t give up; but before you, your mom also displayed strong resolve, when faced with her son’s polio challenge, until that semblance of salvation, when one leg was saved. Would you say you got that resilience from her? (Smiles)Maybe now that you are saying it, I am putting one and one together. Yes my mother has always been resilient and never takes no for an answer. She’s the type that believes that if this does not work, try this, try the next one…. Maybe it’s a family trait. Here you are, a pastor, but the solution to your paralysis came via unorthodox means, with your mom and grandmother taking you through several herbalists and spiritualists. Faced with such challenges, would you go that route? The Bible says, “You will know the truth and the truth will set you free.” Then there was no truth, and that was the only obvious solution they could seek. Of course there was the belief that the whole thing was diabolical and beyond ordinary polio. Maybe the one that startled even me is the fact that those that tried to help had some kind of disease come upon them, while about two of them died. But of course, God forbid, if it happens, I would never have gone that route. And then, that masquerade experience. That obviously was a moment of reality for you. (Laughs…) I was probably 7/8 years old. We grew up in Tejuosho, Lagos, and our parents only took us to our village, Ara, in Osun State at Christmas. On this occasion, it coincided with the masquerade festival and on a certain day we all set out to go visit some relatives with some cousins, uncles and siblings. We got to the market square and suddenly a masquerade was coming, with all the drumming and cane-wielding followers. Of course, the spontaneous thing was to take to your heels. So, everybody that we left my family compound together took to their heels. Of course I knew that I couldn’t run because of my situation, but that was the day it really dawned on me.  Seeing this danger and seeing that I was helpless and all alone unable to run fast enough to safety like others…. Like I wrote in the book, that was the turning point in my life. Even though I was still very young, it was the day I decided that, when things happen, everybody would always mind their own side of it. That was also when the can-do spirit came in. So, if anyone tells me you cannot, it always steers me to want to prove that ‘I can.’ Sometimes, even at the risk of your life! I think being daring is one thing you need to have if you don’t want to stick with what people tell you. People will hardly give you the chance.  But like I tell myself, I think I stopped trying to prove anything to anybody maybe some two years ago.  I was like, ‘What else do I want to prove to anybody that I can do?’ The only things impossible are the things you refuse to do or agree are impossible. Of course, having seven siblings who are guys and a young lady, I remember when my father started trying to teach us to drive, and I said it was my turn, and he said, “Kolawole, you can’t drive this type of car, when you grow up and have money you’re going to buy an automatic.’ Because he said ‘You cannot,’ I just smiled and made up my mind that I was going to prove to him that I could. So I did a lot of experimenting; anytime he left the car in front of the house, I would sneak to pick the key and move it back and forth. I also learnt to press the clutch, using my left hand to push my left leg. And when the opportunity presented itself, I told the driver to let me drive and he released the key. I got to this rail junction and a train was approaching. And because the driver of the car ahead of me was hesitating, the car went off and I never knew I needed to go back to gear one to restart it. Then lo and behold, a train was fast approaching and hooting and I was right in its way. People, women especially, had gathered and screaming and wailing. And because it was in gear three, every time I started the car, it just jumped to the front and back. Then the train was so close now, but the only thing that kept ringing in my head was, ‘I need to save this car; what would my father say?’ Even the driver had got off. And right then, I just looked at the gear and saw it was in gear three and instinctively, I moved it to gear one. Actually, I knew that was God. The car moved and the train just went behind me. I was shaking for days, but something in me kept saying, ‘yeah, at least you drove.’ You also come across like a man who has a relationship with his Maker and communicates directly with Him, starting with your long courtship of your wife and how you miraculously caught the bank thief. One would ordinarily expect you to own a church? That’s where people get it wrong. I’m not a religious person; I just have a relationship with my Maker, which started in my Year 1 at the University of Ife. At the third time of my writing JAMB, I made a vow that if He would make me end up in the university, I would give my life to him. And miraculously, it happened. So I gave my life to Jesus, and from that moment, I discovered that I started hearing the voice of God. I could hear God tell me many things; but that’s not enough to start a church. Because you have a relationship with God does not mean you should commercialise it, or use every gimmick to make money out of people. I tell people, if anybody is in full time ministry I am, but I also have my full-time job as well. If there is any reason Through It All was written, it I because I have a ministry. The church I’m running is to be able to sit with people one-on-one, gather people and encourage them. Of course, the story of how I wooed my wife of now 25 years is another interesting part of the book. Your experience with the very unprofessional doctor, who said you could never impregnate a woman, seems like the only place you betrayed your anger in the book. Maybe because I’d always wanted to be a medical doctor and I see doctors like pastors. They are people that when things are going wrong, they must always give hope. Of course we’d tried a lot of doctors after six months to one year and conception wasn’t happening. Of course, they discovered that I was the problem, they diagnosed low sperm count and we were treating it; but the more we treated it, the more the count kept dropping; and then we visited this specialist hospital and met this young doctor who took a look at my test result and said, rather tactlessly, “Mr Olugbodi, with this result I’m seeing here, you can’t impregnate any woman in your life.’ I left his office feeling so sorry for myself and even sorrier for my wife. And as I told the lab attendants what the doctor told me, one of them just said, ‘With God, all things are possible.’ I wish I got that from the doctor. To the glory of God, we have two children now. I put that in the book to encourage people not to always take human opinion, however professional, as final. The doctor only saw 5000 sperm count, but the count still dropped to zero. Tell us about your organisation, Background Check International. Background Check International (BCI) is the first background screening company in Nigeria and across West Africa. Like I tell people, there is always a spiritual angle to everything in my life, even business. Of course I’ve tried a lot of businesses in my life that failed; I tried a commodity business that really messed me up. Between 1996 and 2001, I discovered that nothing was working. We didn’t have children, the business failed and so we didn’t have a home and somebody had to give us a Boy’s Quarters to stay. We also got to know what hunger was and what it was to start losing friends…  And when in January 2001 everybody was shouting Happy New Year, I told myself that if it was really going to be a happy year, things had to change and God must make me know what would happen. So I got praying and He led me into the Bible, Isaiah Chapter 41 from vs. 10-15: “Fear not, I will help you; don’t be dismayed, I will strengthen you… I am going t make you into a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth….” When I got to that verse, it occurred to me that this was the voice of the same God who had always spoken to me. The God that told me three things, when I was about leaving the university in 1988 – “You’re going to do your NYSC in Abeokuta, you’re going to start your working career in Abeokuta and you’re going to get married to Toyin in Abeokuta,” which all came to pass; the same God that spoke and revealed everything to me when there was a fraud in the bank where I worked and everything was on my head… Of course, the conception didn’t come until 2003 and by the time we were taking off, it turned out that BCI was the first of its type in Nigeria, with so many telling us it would not work because it had never been done before. But 15 years down the line, Background Check International is working and we now have other companies springing up and doing what we do. What exactly do you do at BCI? Between 2002 and 2003, I started a recruitment and outsourcing agency, which was outsourcing support staff, drivers, messengers, secretaries; and in the process, one question that kept coming was, ‘Can you vouch for these people?’ Yes they performed very well at interviews, resumes were okay, they had the requisite experience…; but could we really vouch for them?  What if these guys were actually criminals or had ulterior motives and you post them to your clients and they turn out to be kidnappers? So we started introducing elements of background check to the people we were recruiting. We started verifying some of the claims they made, their certificates, the places they claimed to have worked. So what we do now is basically verifying claims on behalf of our clients, who are majorly corporate organisations who have employed new hands or who have old hands and need to be sure of their true identity and background. They ask us to help check their educational background, which entails us checking the schools they claim to have graduated from, the class of degree; we get in touch with former employers, to confirm if the person actually worked with them, their attitude to work and if they had negative records and how they left. We also run criminal records. Aside corporate organisations, we also conduct checks on domestic staff– whether housemaid, nanny or cook. Now, we tell people, you need to know who your tenants are. We have services for people in the Diaspora. I was watching a video on social media recently, where a guy was lamenting how he has been sending money to his younger sister in Nigeria to help put up a structure, only for him to come home and there was nothing. So we do verification or fact check for such people. You also have a sizable number of young people, barely in their twenties, working with you. What people need to realize is that the time and season has changed. Now we’re in the digital age and everything is about IT. Baby boomers don’t understand all these jargons; they are trained to do things in the manual way, whereas everything is going digital and automated. So any organisation that is going to move to the next level and will not die by the time everything that looks manual is dead, must actually begin to embrace the youths. You think they’re learning from me but the truth is I’m actually learning from them. They have in their hands things that are going to happen in the next ten, fifteen years. By the way readers can access the book via, https://tia.com.ng.