Apparently piqued by what it described as the federal government uncooperative stance towards implementing the N30, 000 new minimum wage, a coalition of civil society including the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) have set machinery in motion to mobilise workers to embark on warning strike to press home their demands. In a statement signed on behalf of the coalition by the duo of Abiodun Bamigboye, Acting National Chairperson and Chinedu Bosah, National Secretary respectively, the group said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has no excuse whatsoever not to implement the new wage. In the statement which reads in part, they frowned at the planned move by the federal government to deploy what they termed ‘divide and rule’ tactics. “We demand that this must be paid to all workers both in the public and private sector and without retrenchment. In particular, we condemn the recent declaration of the Buhari government that it would henceforth unilaterally commence payment of N30, 000 minimum wage to workers on level 6 and below while negotiation on consequential adjustment has not been concluded as a dishonest manoeuvre by the Buhari regime to arm-twist the labour movement in order to shortchange workers.” Expatiating, they raised some posers, “On what template do you base the N30, 000 minimum wage you want to pay to workers on level 6 and below when the ongoing negotiation over the details of adjustment for all categories and levels of the workforce has not been concluded? What would be the basic wage and what would be the allowances constituting the total wage package of workers on level 6 and below including the adjustment for the various steps in between these wage levels?” The group however urged the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC) to immediately convene a joint meeting to deliberate and agree on a one-day warning general strike and nationwide mass protest in order to warn the federal government, and the state governments waiting in the rear, that Nigerian workers demand immediate implementation of the full value of the N30, 000 minimum wage without retrenchment. “The labour leadership has to face the reality of the class struggle in the country. As a Political Party, we do not doubt the inherent capacity of the labour movement to actualize the implementation of the N30, 000 minimum wage in both public and private sectors if it is prepared to take the road of mass struggle,” they stressed.