An unmarked Iveco truck carrying granites has rammed into a passenger bus at the Abule – Ika stretch of the Abeokuta – Ibadan road, crushing five people to death and gravely injuring 14 others as it locked into the mangled bus. The Nation learnt that the fatal crash which occurred on Friday at about 9:20pm, involved a Mazda bus with registration number MUS367XU and an Iveco truck without registration number. It was learnt further that the truck driver in bids to avoid potholes – ridden portion of the Abeokuta – Ibadan road at the Abule – Ika corridor, lost control of the wheel, ploughed into the lane of the incoming Mazda bus and rammed into it. Witnesses said Operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State Command and the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps(TRACE) who arrived some minutes after, were sighted battling to untangle the wreckage and rescue victims. Also, the Route Commander, Florence Okpe, Public Education Officer, FRSC, Ogun State Command, who confirmed the accident in a message to The Nation, attributed the cause to “dangerous driving.” Okpe stated that 19 people – 14males and five females were involved in the accident, adding that while five people died, 14 others were injured as the “truck crushed the passengers in the commuter bus and trapped them inside.” According to her, the injured were rescued to the Federal Medical Centre(FMC), Abeokuta, while the remains of the dead were deposited at the morgue of the General Hospital Ijaye, Abeokuta. The FRSC Ogun State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, commiserated with the families of the victims and cautioned drivers against driving dangerously to avoid road traffic crashes. Also, the Public Relations Officer of Trace, Babatunde Akinbiyi, disclosed that husband and wife were believed to be among the victims of the accident. Akinbiyi added that the driver of the truck and his motor boy fled the scene before Traffic Operatives arrived. He said: “We learnt the commercial bus was going to Ibadan while the truck was coming from the Ibadan end towards Abeokuta, and fully loaded with granite when the accident happened. “The truck in an attempt to avoid a pot hole at Abule-Ika corridor of the the road while on top speed, lost control and rammed into the incoming bus on its lane making its way towards Ibadan. “We learnt that a couple was in the bus when the accident happened. While the husband is alive, though still in a critical condition, the wife was among the dead victims. “The accident vehicles have been taken to Odeda Divisional Police Station. The driver of the truck and his motor boy fled the scene. “TRACE Corps commiserates with the families of the dead victims, and advised drivers and owners of articulated vehicles to make safety their watchword, ensured that their drivers are well trained and certified in the act of driving.”