Arguably, Nigeria is a country of more than 190 million people. It is not strange that Nigeria occupies a  pride of place when countries with people who created or discovered cutting edge technologies or inventions are mentioned. More striking about Nigerians’ ability to invent or discover cutting-edge technologies is the fact that the ability to invent is not preserved for the adults. Nigerian teenagers have been making waves as a result of some of the seemingly outlandish feats they have  achieved in the area of inventions. In the circumstances, therefore, the feat of a 10-year-old graduating primary school student David Ngeregbara of Vine International School at Tombia Extension, Government Reservation Area (GRA) in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State was not surprising to many. At the school’s graduation ceremony, the 10-year-old Ngeregbara displayed the coding game that he invented to help the society to trace and solve life’s complex problems. The inventor, an indigene of Isiama in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, is the son of Justus Ngeregbara, an engineer. David revealed that he was inspired to invent the new technology on coding games, which would not only help to solve societal problems, but would help to create job opportunities for young people, and according to him, in his determination to meaningfully contribute to societal development, not minding his young age. The inventor, who spoke after a presentation of the computer game coding, described the game as an adventure, which he said would help to detect challenges of life and possible ways of solving them for a better society. David also implored other students not to be discouraged by the challenges of life, but to be determined to contribute to the development of the society. He said: “The game is like an adventure game. What made me to invent the game was to face life’s complex problems. The adventure game is like problems that you need to trace, face and see how you can solve them by killing them, the same way you punch at some of the characters and they die, for you to succeed in the moving object. “The coding game can develop the society. When there is massive production of the game, people can pay for them. I wish to encourage other students to try as much as they can to make their parents proud by introducing new positive things in the society.” The Director of Vine International School, Mrs. Mina Jegede, urged governments at all levels to go beyond the traditional subjects, but to enhance technology in the schools for the development of humankind and the society. Jegede noted that government got it wrong for depending on traditional subjects, stressing that English language and Mathematics were good, but to key into the new technology, schools must be ready to introduce platforms for the children to advance technologically. The director advised parents and guardians not to interfere in the career choice of their children and wards, but to support them in their endeavours. In his remarks, David’s father, Mr. Ngeregbara described his son as motivator to younger generation and the world. He said: “I am glad that my son of 10 years is already inventing a technology that can save the world. “In my time, we were not exposed to this kind of technology, but today, the story has changed. I am so happy.” The senior Ngeregbara also stated that the private schools were becoming more proactive than public schools, which he attributed to the equipment being made available in the private schools. It is essential to always encourage the talented students to continue to be innovative and creative in order to support societal development.