Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of the 43 ministerial nominees forwarded to it by President Muhammadu Buhari. The upper chamber confirmed the nominees for appointment as ministers of the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, at the conclusion of a five-day confirmation hearing. President Buhari transmitted the list of his ministerial nominees to the Senate on Tuesday, July 23, 2019. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, who read the presidential communication on the floor of the Senate, said that the upper chamber would swing into action the following day, Wednesday, July 24, to screen and confirm the nominees. Before the confirmation on Tuesday, the remaining three nominees, Lai Mohammed (Kwara), Engr. Saleh Mamman (Taraba) and Sabo Nanono (Kano) were screened for approval. With the confirmation and approval of the Votes and Proceedings of Tuesday, the Senate is set to transmit the names of the ministers designate to President Buhari for inauguration and allocation of portfolios. Senate President, who gave kudos to senators for rising to the occasion to conclude the screening and confirmation in record time, said that the ministers designate should hit the ground running after inauguration Lawan noted that they should also discharge their duties in line with constitutional provisions. The Senate President warned against the failure of some ministers to appear before relevant Senate committees when invited. Lawan noted that they will take their oversight functions seriously to ensure that appropriated funds were used judiciously. He said: “The Senate has demonstrated clearly that we are set to work for Nigerians. There is no doubt about the extension of time that ordinarily would have been part of our recess to stay back to do this job for our country. “We have finished this very important national assignment and to the glory of God, Nigeria has a Senate and indeed a National Assembly that is prepared to take Nigeria to the next level. “For those that have been confirmed by this Senate, the message is that they must be prepared to work with this chamber. “We are going to engage them in our oversight and other legislative activities. What we want to achieve is to have a relationship that is based on mutual respect and truth. “While we are not going to be frivolous, we are going to be firm. We are going to be serious with our oversight. “Oversight is the only way we can ensure that the legislations we make, particularly the budget that we pass, is implemented. “I want to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari for nominating Nigerians of great quality.” Those confirmed are included Sunday Akin Dare (Oyo), Ikechukwu (Uchechukwu) Ogah (Abia); Muhammadu Musa Bello (Adamawa); Senator Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom); Senator Chris Ngige (Anambra); Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra), (Adamu Adamu (Bauchi) Ambassador Maryam Katagum (Bauchi); Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa) and Senator George Akume (Benue). Others also confirmed are Mustapha Baba Shehuri (Borno); Goddy Jedy-Agba (Cross Rivers); Festus Keyamo (Delta); Ogbonnaya Onu (Ebonyi); Dr. Osagie Ehanire (Edo); Clement Agba (Edo); Otumba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti); Geoffrey Onyema (Enugu); Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim Pantami (Gombe); Hon. Emeka Nwajuba (Imo); Sulaiman H. Adamu (Jigawa); Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed and Dr. Muhammad Mahmoud (Kaduna). The confirmed ministerial nominees also included Sabo Nanono and Major General Bashir Salihi Magashi (rtd) (Kano); Senator Hadi Sirika (Katsina); Abubakar Malami (Kebbi); Ramatu Tijani Aliyu (Kogi); Lai Mohammed and Gbemisola Saraki (Kwara). Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN) and Adeleke Mamora (Lagos); Mohammed H. Abdullahi (Nasarawa); Olamilekan Adegbiti (Ogun); Ambassador Zubairu Dada (Niger); Senator Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo); Rauf Aregbesola (Osun); Pauline Tallen (Plateau); Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers) Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi (Sokoto); Engr. Saleh Mamman (Taraba); Abubakar D. Aliyu (Yobe); and Sa’adiya Umar Farouk (Zamfara). Lagos, Edo, Kaduna, Kano, Kwara, Anambra and Bauchi States, got two ministerial slots each. The others got one slot each. Division on geo-political zone basis showed that North West got the lion’s share with nine ministerial slots. The North East received seven slots while North Central also got seven slots. The South South zone got seven slots, South East six slots while South West got seven slots. Eight former governors were among those confirmed for ministerial appointment. Baring last minute changes, the ministers designate may be inaugurated today.