The Zamfara State Police Command on Thursday said 24 hostages were rescued from armed bandits, militia groups and two AK47 rifles voluntarily surrendered by a bandit recovered. This is coming barely six days after the police announced the rescue of 59 captives in Maru, Shinkafi and Kaura Namoda local government areas, and two days after 14 hostages kidnapped over seven months ago were freed at Rukudawa village, Zurmi. According to Police Commissioner Usman Nagogo, the recent feat has brought to 97 the total number of hostages released since the command’s initiation of the peace and reconciliation pact supported by the state government. The initiative was introduced to encourage repentant Yansakai militias and armed bandits eschew violence, a process the police said has recorded tremendous successes. Nagogo in a statement released Thursday evening said 12 persons were freed on Wednesday and another 12 yesterday. “On July 10, another breakthrough was made where 12 kidnapped victims who are indigenes of Sokoto State were successfully rescued from their captors in Shinkafi local government. The rescued persons were handed over to the Sokoto State Deputy Governor at the Zamfara State Government House, Gusau. “Today being July 11, the Commissioner of Police also negotiated the successful release of  eight persons including women and children. The victims are indigenes of Fankiyo, Tasa and Kachi Kaidai in Maru local government. Another Four persons were rescued in Shinkafi LGA. “With this development, a total number of 97 persons have been successfully rescued through the ongoing peace and reconciliation pact. “All the rescued persons were handed over to His Excellency Dr. Muhammad Bello Matawallen Maradun after which they will be reunited with their families,” the statement signed by spokesman Mohammed Shehu, a Superintendent of Police (SP) said. He said the efforts would be sustained, adding that the peace pact has helped to regain the people’s trust in the police. “We will ensure all persons under the captivity of armed bandits and other militia groups are released. The next stage of this peace process will be disarming of the bandits or any other person in possession of arms, offensive weapons,” he said.