The CEO and Project Director of Creative Youth Community Development Initiative, Foluke Michael, is also a Principal Partner of Caterina de’ Medici Africa Enterprise, an organisation dedicated to promoting agribusiness. In 2018, she won the Innovator category of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Action Award in Bonn, Germany, having been credited with the creation of Solution 17, a programme designed to help drive the actualisation of sustainable development goals. The known associate of the Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, spoke with PAUL UKPABIO about her relationship with the literary giant, her lifestyle, childhood days and how she managed to develop the programme that has earned her global recognition. You have just returned from Bonn in Germany. What was the trip about? I attended the Global Festival of Action for Sustainable Development which was organised by the United Nations SDG Campaign. My mission was to connect with organisations that are making positive changes around the world, introduce Solution17 for Sustainable Development Goals, share our organisation’s success stories, inspire action and build sustainable partnerships. The mission was accomplished. A few days ago, you had a programme at the Civic Centre in Lagos, which you said was a call to action. What action were you talking about? It is an action meant to create a movement that would end unemployment, hunger, poverty, lack of water and insecurity, and promote good health, peace and education. We are calling on the youth to design their future and secure a better one for generations to come. We can no longer wait for government alone to fix our future; we must take positive steps to free our dear country. At the launch of the UN Solution 17 for sustainable goals, you said that you have gone through Professor Wole Soyinka’s personal university. What did you mean by that? I met Prof Wole Soyinka in 2002. Prior to meeting him, I struggled so hard to help some Nigerian artists participate in the Caterina de’ Medici International Painting Competition in Italy. Just by divine miracle, I managed to travel with four artists to join about 65 other countries in Italy. We were the ones that didn’t have money. We were the ones that got there late and almost everything about the trip was wrong because we didn’t get a sponsor. I remember that I had to sell my car. We got to Italy and we had to get a hostel for the artists. But good enough, two of our Nigerian artists excelled with gold and silver medals at the competition. By divine arrangement, Prof Soyinka was at Florence at the same period. He then visited the Caterina de Medici office. Unfortunately, I had travelled to Belgium. He left a short note that I should see him upon my return to Nigeria. I celebrated that note as if I had won a $1 million lottery! Since 2002 till date, I have attended the primary, secondary and university of Prof Wole Soyinka, where I have gained knowledge, wisdom, power of discipline and integrity, among others. I am still learning till date. Prof. Wole Soyinka is not just a father but a dedicated mentor and teacher to so many of us! I’m ever grateful to God for meeting him. He has impacted my life beyond measure. So I started learning as if I was in primary school. Each time I went to him, there was an improvement. I was on training without even knowing that I was a student. He has deep knowledge of accounting, finance, literature, arts, public speaking and so on. The school has no specific course schedule; it all depends on what he is handling at a particular time. So the school of Prof Wole Soyinka is a school of knowledge; one that everyone needs to go through to improve oneself. Where would you say Nigeria is with regard to the UN SDG programme? Without being negative about my country, I must say that we are not making much progress, and I feel like there should be more public awareness of what these SDGs are about. They are not just UN SDGs alone; they are our SDGs. They are goals that we need to put in our everyday lives. There must be more action not just from the government but from the people. We need to organise all forms of platforms in order to involve children, youths and adults to take responsibility. A child can influence a school. A school can influence a corporate organisation. Someone who works in an organisation can influence a department there, and so on. We need to drive a movement because most of the problems listed as goals in the UN SDG are our problems. For instance, poverty, hunger, which is predominant in our country. Health is on the ground. Gender equality is not balanced. Nigeria needs to take ownership as a country and people need to take ownership of these goals to solve our problems by ourselves. I give kudos to some dedicated Nigeria youths who are working so hard to implement sustainable projects. The government of Nigeria must wake up and build active collaboration with CSOs, youth organisations and the private sector to move this country forward. This country can be liberated if government goes back to the drawing board, appoint the right people to lead change movement and promote partnerships among relevant stakeholders. We can rebuild the broken walls in 11 years if we are serious. You were listed by the UN as a solution provider under the SDG programme. How did that happen and how can Nigeria benefit from it? Solution17 has recently been published by United Nations as ‘good practice, success story and inspiring breakthrough’ that can be replicated and scaled up to help galvanise the momentum for implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We got to this point through hard work and determination. Our appetite for success is indescribable. Our vision to affect our world positively propels us at all time. This is why we are creating youth movement to rewrite the history of our country. Nigeria will be great. We heard that some countries are buying into your solution ideas… We are proud of our achievement so far. Organisations from different parts of the world are reaching out to learn and replicate our model. Currently Solution17 has been adopted in India, Morocco and Switzerland. We are prepared to give support to organisations, countries and youth groups in different regions. This is our contribution towards the actualisation of SDGs. You were said to have created four successful projects within 36 months. Tell us about the projects and the challenges you and your team faced in achieving them. The projects are ‘My New Nigeria Free From Corruption, ‘Corruption Busters Educational,’ ‘Creative Drug Education towards a Drug-Free Society,’ ‘A Short Movie Titled “TRAPPED” and ‘Solution17 for SDGs (Health, Corruption and Decent Work and Economic Growth.’ The urge to build and promote a New Nigeria led us to creating these award winning projects. You see, I carry the Nigeria burden in my system. I think about the country’s enormous resources, potentials and the great minds; a country very rich and too poor! So we are currently creating a movement through these projects to free our dear country. Our major challenge is funding; but we are determine to overcome this challenge through sustainable partnerships with organisations with CSRs (corporate social responsibilities) channelled towards youth development and economic growth. It is a win-win situation!  We have also designed sustainable projects that will fund our social projects in a few years. You also recently won the best creative innovator in the world. How do you feel about it? It was a moment of thanksgiving and gratitude to God. The ideas, instruction and knowledge came from Him. The desire to do more was birthed right there in Germany after the award. I have won more awards and recognition internationally between March 2018 and now. The United Nations Information Centre Country Director said that the UN recognizes your work as a leader. How can the youth navigate the path you have passed through and reach the heights that you have attained? Our country is going through difficult situations: insecurity, high level of poverty, low quality education, unemployment, hunger, and so on. Every youth must look at each problem as an opportunity to proffer solution and service. Every change agent or inventor first makes himself available to solve a problem to help humanity whilst harnessing the business potentials. Nigerian youths must exhibit possibility mentality. They must have clear vision, the zeal to succeed, the readiness to be diligent and the power to sacrifice. How did your early beginnings influence the person you are today? I was greatly influenced by my mother and late father; they never failed to speak positive words into my life. I had a good upbringing which was built on high level of responsibilities. I was always available to help my mother with home chores, look after my younger brothers (five of them) and help her business to grow. I combined all these with school work easily. Multitasking, can-do-spirit, sacrifice and diligence were my major core values. How about your education background? I initially trained as a civil engineer. I discovered my potential as a social innovator, having practised engineering for a few years. I was awarded MSc in Project Management at the University of Salford Manchester, United Kingdom; a course I took to support my SDGs journey. Where did you grow up? I grew up with my parents in Ekiti State. We are from Iyin Ekiti. Can you recall some of your childhood memories? I was super intelligent in my primary schools day, courtesy of my favourite teacher—my father. He ensured I always wrote exams ahead of my class. I actually skipped Primary 6, having written my entrance exam to secondary school in Primary 5. So I became lonely all through the 1st term in my secondary school, because my classmates saw me as their “junior”.  I was always in a hurry to go home to spend more time with my parents. If you are not what you are today, what else would you have loved to be? I thank God that I found my purpose in life, nothing else would have given me fulfilment like what I currently do, it’s my calling. In addition, my vision has many branches, so I’m still on the journey, so much more to do. Seems soon you will be a citizen of the world, did you envisage that as a young girl growing up in Nigeria? Yes, my father addressed me as a queen, shining star, the most intelligent, world changer since I was only 6 years old! We were always together, at school, home, his farm, meetings and so on. As the only daughter, my parents entrusted my brothers in my care too early! I never disappointed them because they respected me so much. My father supported me early enough to become a very strong woman! He’ is my Hero. He took a loan to obtain my ticket and bought my first ticket abroad. What were your dreams as a child? To fly abroad! Taking your personal situation into context, what would you say is the role of a mentor in a young person’s life? To me, a mentor is also a leader; who knows the way, goes the way, and shows the way. People assume that those who take life seriously like you, do not have time for pleasure. Do you have time for pleasure? If you do, what do you do for leisure and recreation? Twenty four hours sometimes goes too fast for me; I run on a long to do list on weekly basis; I also have carry over work to the following week, this situation runs throughout the year. I’m a workaholic when I have deadline to meet, I don’t combine work with pleasure at such critical times. Proverbs 22:29 says:  “Do you see a woman skillful and experienced in her work? She will stand [in honor] before kings; She will not stand before obscure men (paraphrased). I enjoy myself when project is successfully delivered and my tasks are completed; but I also do travelling, vacation, family funfair and regular visits to the gym. What music appeals to you? I enjoy worship songs, in addition to love music! What vanities of life do you indulge in that you cannot stop? For some, it is the love of perfumes, others, luxury cars, what’s yours? I love perfumes. Where do you get funding for your projects? Our projects have relied on self-funding; over 80% till date. But I work with a passionate team who will always sacrifice their energy, time and resources to ensure successful completion. It hasn’t been an easy journey but with the power of determination, we are on the track. This is why we are currently designing sustainable project that will fund itself in a few years.