Canadian developmental organization, Cuso International, with support from the Government of Canada through Global Affairs Canada (GAC), has extended the CAD$15 million youth entrepreneurship program, YouLead (Youth Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Access and Development) by six months from March to December 2019. This was announced by the Cuso International Country Representative, Mr. Ebrima Sonko, during an interview at the YouLead Learning and Sharing Forum which held in Abuja on Wednesday. The YouLead Project which is based in Cross River State, Nigeria provides youth with valuable skills & technical training aimed to reduce youth unemployment by promoting entrepreneurship and sustainable economic development in the natural resource sectors, including: agriculture, forestry, aquaculture and eco–tourism. According to the Country Representative, about 10,000 youths have been trained so far and 3,500 have been able to be put to work. “The program started some five years back,” he stated in an interview. “It was supposed to respond to the key issues we found in our analyses in Cross River. “There was a high level of unemployment above the national level, close to 40% and the communities were encroaching into the ecosystem and meeting their livelihoods was affecting the environment so we thought with a program that would provide employment within the natural resource sector would be a good way to address these issues. “Our first training is not straight into business but rather to change their mindset. We teach them the principles of entrepreneurship, and then we put them through the technical training for the areas they want to work in. We also attach them to financial institutions so they can get funding.” Also speaking in an interview, the Program Coordinator, UNDP GEF Small Grants Programme, Mrs. Ibironke Olubamise, advised the beneficiaries and the youth not to wait for government jobs or provision before utilizing the opportunities they are presented with. She also emphasized on the need to focus on green economy in a bid to address environmental health challenges. “We can no longer do business as usual,” she said. “We are seeing the effects of global warming, climate change, environmental degradation. Youths should educate themselves on these issues as they venture into entrepreneurship. “My advice to young people is that there is no job that doesn’t have its good and ugly side. Everybody is going back to agriculture. White collar jobs are scarce and they won’t pay you your worth. “There are many opportunities in mechanized farming, processing, sales and marketing, adding value to the value chain. “There is also need for a National Plan on Youth Entrepreneurship with emphasis on environmental management. “Once the basic necessities are provided by the government, then that is enough to get the youth going.”