President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday urged family members of the deceased corps member, Precious Owolabi to accept the will of God in good faith. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Owolabi was killed during a protest by members of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) otherwise known as Shiites in Abuja on July 22. Buhari, who was represented by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, advised the family to take heart, saying that the loss would never be forgotten. NAN reports that during the condolence, Osinbajo engaged the father of the deceased, Owolabi Ayo in a heart-to-heart discussion. Director-General, National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Shu’aibu Ibrahim addressing Journalists shortly after Vice President’s condolence visit to Precious Owolabi’s family in Zaria on Saturday Addressing Journalists during the condolence, the Director-General, National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), Brig.-Gen. Shu’aibu Ibrahim, described last Monday as a very sad day for the NYSC family. “Actually, last Monday was a very sad day for the NYSC family and for the Vice President to come on behalf of the President on condolence with the family is an indication that the Federal Government really cares for the NYSC. “And the welfare of the NYSC is paramount to the Federal Government, we appreciate it and I can assure you that we have learnt a lesson from what had happened. “As you can see, the corps members are very proud of the Federal Government for the President to come to this house, this indicated that Precious Owolabi is a hero, he died in the service of our country.” NAN reports that the Vice President was accompanied by Gov. Nasiru el-Rufai of Kaduna State, Council Chairmen of Zaria, Sabongari and Kudan Local government Areas. Meanwhile, the Federal Government’s request for the proscription of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria has been granted by a Federal High Court in Abuja on Friday. Justice Nkeonye Maha issued the order in a ruling in which she also designated the activities of the Shiite organization in any part of Nigeria “as acts of terrorism and illegality”. NAN 