The General Superintendent, Deeper Life Bible Church, Pastor William Kumuyi, has said capacity building is a panacea to unemployment Kumuyi stated this during the maiden edition of the Young Professional Forum (YPF) of the church’s Mega Summit, tagged: Gaining the edge, held at the international headquarters of the church in Lagos. He said youths are important in God’s plan and, as such, must live a transformed life so that they could make progress in their careers. Kumuyi, represented by the Lagos State Moderator of the church, Pastor Kenneth Nwosu, said due to the global economic meltdown that led to hardship in many countries, including Nigeria, there is a problem of unemployment. Moreover, there are only few white collar jobs  available for the huge population of qualified young people to vie for. ‘’The need to become self-employed and create businesses and enterprises that eventually will generate jobs that will reduce the problem of unemployment becomes very necessary, hence the church felt the need to, as part of her social responsibility, organise the Skill Acquisition Programme (SAP), through its in-house Young Professionals Forum (YPF) as a vital capacity building event to assist youths gain the required skills needed to enhance their employability and equally empower them in the quest for self-employment and also become employers themselves. He further noted that as part of efforts to assist in reducing the congestion in government owned universities, the Church established Anchor University as a way of contributing its own quota to the development of the young people with character and leadership skills for the advancement of the nation. During the summit, which attracted about 3,000 participants from various parts of the country, the keynote speaker, Dr. Famuyiwa Abiodun, who is the Head of Retail Business and Community Banking, FirstBank Nigeria, talked about “Winning in a competitive world”. He charged the participants to remain focused in order to remain at the top in life, saying: “To win in life, attitude is everything. YPF President Mr. Daniel Bamigbayan expressed optimism that there is hope for Nigeria and Africa. Other speakers were Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Executive Motors, Dr. Ayo Ogunsan; Group Chief Information Officer, WAPIC Insurance, Tobe Nnadozie and Group HR Director Chanrai Summit Group Africa, Mr. Victor Adebayo. The highpoint of the event was the graduation of about 800 participants in the church’s third Skill Acquisition Programme (SAP). 