A 27-old man, Nsisong Okon Etim, has ended his life in Efiat Ikot Edo community in Uyo local government area of Akwa Ibom state over alleged frequent disturbances by his mother, step-brother and landlord. The deceased, a graduate, disclosed the reasons for taking his life in a suicide note he wrote. The late Nsisong said: ”I am ending my miserable life to escape from constant worries and disturbances from my mother, step-brother and the landlord whose shop I rented to sell cooking gas.” The incident has continued to shock residents of Ukpong Edet Street within the Effiat Ikot Edo Offot community where the deceased lived with his mother. According to family sources, the deceased, said to have completed his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) last year, had taken into a private business of retailing of cooking gas along the Old Ring Road, Uyo, “because of inability to find immediate job”. The deceased Nsisong, one of the sons of the late Village Head of the community, Chief Etim Eton, according to his sister, Miss Edidiong Okon Etim, “was very discreet and was keeping always to himself”. “He rarely eats from our mother’s kitchen; he normally cooked for himself until he returned on Tuesday, July 23, 2019 from his shop in the evening and ended his life that night,” she explained amid tears. It was gathered “the deceased had opened the door to his house, locked himself in and later undressed himself and clad with only boxer short. “He broke the PVC sealing, hung the suicide rope on the rafters and strangled himself in the noose”. His mother identified as Mrs. Patience Eton, who was still in tears on Wednesday morning when his remains were lowered from the rafters for ritual and burial, was too shock to speak. The Youths’ Leader (Obong Effak) of Umoebet\Esuene streets, Comrade Godwin Okon Sunday, expressed sadness over what he described as the “unfortunate incident”. “I have seen him recently; he is a very reserved introvert who was not given to a socialist kind of life. “In fact, if you come face to face with him on the road, he would hide his face and would not greet or talk to you. “I think based on the content of his suicide note, it is the prevailing hardship that has brought frustration that led to his emotions running high to the point of taking such a hard decision to terminate his life,” the youths’ leader added.