The Oyo state House of Assembly says the three bills sent to it by Governor Seyi Makinde will be given accelerated hearing, describing them as important, germane and pivotal to addressing critical issues facing the state. The bills, according to the lawmakers, are: the Anti-grazing Bill, the Anti-corruption bill and the Investment Promotion Bill. Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin made the disclosure on Saturday while featuring on a live interview programme on an Ibadan based radio station, Beats FM, Ibadan. According to the Speaker, the anti-grazing bill will address one of the most controversial issues in the country and put many minds to rest. He said: “It is good that the Presidency has eventually suspended the Rural Grazing Areas project popularly called Ruga Settlement. “The different reactions that trailed the announcement of Ruga project were indications of how sensitive the issue is. The anti-grazing bill will be painstakingly deliberated upon by the members of the Ninth Oyo Assembly at its plenary.” On the anti-corruption bill, the Speaker said the Assembly will help actualise the dream of Governor Seyi Makinde in having an anti-graft agency which will look into cases of mismanagement, fraud and embezzlement of public funds and other related matters in the state. “Governor Seyi Makinde is demonstrating the resolve of his government to run a corrupt free administration and the establishment of an anti-graft agency in  the state is enough a warning to everyone directly or indirectly working with him. “The Governor has also promised to make himself available for investigation if the state anti-graft agency has cause to invite him. We think this is a good point to put anybody’s mind to rest on the intentions behind the creation.” While commenting on the proposed investment promotion bill before the house, Ogundoyin explained that such a bill is aimed at giving necessary legislative backing to plans by the state governor to woo investors into the state, saying “It is one of the cardinal plans of this government to make the state the hub for both local and foreign investors.” He also used the medium to highlight the legislative agenda of the 9th Assembly to address deficiencies in critical sectors in  health, education and infrastructure and assured that the house will build a synergy and effective communication with the people of the state 