Former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Mr. Timi Alaibe yesterday unfolded his governorship ambition in Bayelsa State. He promised to place the state on the path of economic prosperity. He also said he is desirous of using his expertise in the private and private sectors for sustainable development in the state. Alaibe said he will run a Blue Ocean Economy and invite private sector capital for a sustainable development in the state. He said he has consulted ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and other stakeholders in the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) in the state. Alaibe, who unveiled his ambition in Abuja after collecting expression of interest and nomination forms at the PDP National Secretariat, said he will consolidate on the achievements of the outgoing governor, Hon. Henry Seriake-Dickson. He said: “ I have had many consultations before declaring my interest. The consultations are still ongoing. “Essentially, my  vision for Bayelsa is that of a  shared economic prosperity for the people of the state. The vision is about the government as a social investor and the government as an enabler to invite private sector capital. “I will invest on security, schools, hospitals and environment. More importantly,  I  will manage a government as an enabler to invite private sector capital and promote strategy for the implementation of critical infrastructure development activities for accelerated economic development. “I will promote Small and Medium Scale industries,  tourism and culture. I have Action Plans that will also involve peace, security and social harmony, institutional strengthening,  governance and effective service delivery. “I will build on the great works that the current governor has done. He has done marvelously well on infrastructure.  He needs a leader with that level of appreciation project management to consolidate on his works. I have the characteristics to consolidate on his achievements “I am a peace advocate,  a bridge builder and I have the network both in the private and public sectors. I have the goodwill, the reputation and the connection. These are the qualities I want to bring to the table to help my state. “I am trying the governorship race again. Some people might want to ask: Why does he want to try again? There is nothing wrong with it. I love my state, I want to serve the state. I managed 145 Local Government Areas as the Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and I am ready to manage Bayelsa State with eight Local Government Areas.” He said he has consulted ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and other PDP stakeholders in the state. “I did extensive consultations with critical stakeholders.  I am thrilled by their overwhelming support. The consultations are still going on.” Asked to be specific on his Blue Ocean Economy, Alaibe said: “Bayelsa State has the largest coastline in the country. I will take advantage of the coastline and turn it into economic prosperity. “There is no need for the gridlock in Apapa Ports if we have a seaport in Bayelsa State. So, Blue Ocean Economy means creation of wealth from the ocean. “We will access the wealth in the ocean. You cannot have natural resources without utilizing them. But in trying to create wealth from the ocean, you do not destroy the eco system.” 