Tina Turner burst into the music scene when she won a Grammy Award for the Best Female Pop Vocal Performance with the song, “What’s Love Got to Do with It?” This song also won the Record of the year Award. That day was one of the happiest days in the life of Tina Turner. But what she actually achieved that day was the worldwide popularisation of the connection between sex and love. She asked a very important question, “What’s love got to do with it?” Like Turner, everybody seems to be searching for love. But this searching, in the light of our divorce rate, continues to be as elusive as a mirage. As I see it, the problem of not finding true love seems to lie with two factors. One factor is that the ‘world culture’ is highly intoxicated with sex. Sex sells. We are bombarded on every side. There are so many sex maniacs. A study published way back in 1991 revealed that one-fourth of all Americans claimed that they best can be described as “sexually insatiable”. That’s about 54 million people, folks! The study concluded that, “in America, sex is an obsession”, and “sex for the majority of Americans, is available for the asking”. These are indeed sobering words. And to think that this estimation is just America’s, and many years ago for that matter.It is no wonder that young people have come to equate their active sex life with love. The second factor is with our collective self-deceit which we parade as cultural civility. We have coined some fine words in place of calling a spade a spade. All around the world, it is socially accepted in many circles to say that one is “having an affair” rather than say that a person is fornicating or committing adultery. And in many of these circles, people actually don’t think there is anything wrong with “having an affair.” We say that one is “making love” instead of saying that one is having sex. You do not make love: you love or do not. Period! You cannot make love in the literal sense of the term. You can have sex, and have it all the time if that were possible. But what’s love got to do with sex? The phrase ‘making love’ is terribly misleading. You cannot make love. You love! It is sad that we have reduced this high concept of virtue-love-to only the erotic level of sexuality. We have come to equate love with giving sex or having sex. What does love have to do with sex? Love is not romance, let alone eroticism. It is not even sentiment or emotion. It sounds abstract but it leads to positive attitudes and concrete actions. We need to have love, and give love. Not having and giving sex.