•We cannot increase tariffs before providing power Once again, the question of which should come first in the power sector, increase in tariff or prepaid meters to electricity consumers, came into the fore at a forum in Abuja on Monday. Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabara, who revived the debate, said Nigerians would not be able to cope with any tariff increase now because of the country’s economic situation. Wabara, who spoke at the public consultation on capping of estimated billing, organised by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) in Abuja, told his audience that it would be unfair for the commission to succumb to pressures from power distribution companies (DisCos) to increase tariffs that would not be commensurate with the power supplied to electricity consumers. According to Wabara, “On our part, anything that will add cost to the consumers at this point in time, certainly, as a consumer and somebody that represents a large constituency, we will not be able to bear the cost. Where we are, the poverty level in Nigeria, I am telling you that many of us cannot afford to pay this exploitative billing. “A retired DIG called me to say that he used to pay such amount and now this is what he is paying and that he cannot pay it again. Those are people at the higher level. What of those at the lower level, small and medium scale enterprises, like the barbers? Can the cooks pay?” he asked. From Wabara’s point of argument, the issue appears to be more on the emotive side. But power is not something that should be consumed for free because it comes with some cost which must be recouped by the providers who are also in business to make money. However, we must take note of the operational words ‘exploitative billing’, that the NLC boss mentioned, which really is at the heart of the argument against estimated billing, and, by extension, increased tariff. Many Nigerians have opposed and they keep opposing the idea of increase of power tariff under the current billing arrangement that the DisCos inherited because it is mostly based on estimates. What this has done is to give the DisCos the latitude to bill consumers on a rule-of the-thumb basis, which many contend is not commensurate with the power they consume. There have been instances when power would not be supplied in some areas for weeks, yet, the bills are fixed and the DisCos expect consumers to pay. Failure to settle such bills in the past, or settling only a part of it, led to situations where the unpaid parts of the bills accumulated to huge sums that consumers have had to repudiate. Yet, the DisCos keep putting pressure on consumers and sometimes blackmail them into paying the questionable bills. It is against this unfair billing system that we keep saying no to tariff increase because there is no discernible pattern to its preparation. Tariff increase without providing consumers with prepaid meters or an equitable billing system can only further compound their woes. Its continued toleration also does not incentivise the DisCos to improve on their services since they can continue to make money for power not supplied. Our position is first things first. We stand by that position. We need to know exactly how many consumers the DisCos are feeding; we need to know how many are metered, and how many of the meters are working; we need to know those who are not metered but the DisCos are aware they are on the National Grid, and the DisCos too must bring into the net those consumers who are using electricity illegally. This last segment is important because it is their bills that are usually transferred to those getting estimated bills, which make such consumers’ bills to be on the high side. It is when all these have been correctly determined, and those with meters (old or prepaid) are billed according to their consumption that we can then be talking about tariff increase. After all, the DisCos too have not been able to meet up with the requirements under the multi-year tariff order that they are under obligation to keep.