The Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), has been urged to sell all the seized exotic cars in various Customs commands to the public to enable more citizens key into the transparency initiative of the Federal Government. Some intending buyers, who spoke with The Nation, said they were  still finding it difficult to understand the purpose the seized vehicles were serving in the commands. One of them, Dr Maruf Animashaun, a university don, urged Col Ali to ensure that all the seized vehicles were sold to the public before the end of the year. Animashaun also said there was need for the Service to be more transparent in the number of vehicles it is putting up for auction. Nigerians, he  said, were aware that the Service impounded many brand new exotic vehicles estimated at N20 billion after bursting several smuggling rings between 2016 and this year and wondered why the vehicles had not been put up for sale to Nigerians. He said: “Nigerians are aware that the CGC said many seizures were made by officers and men of the Federal Operation Units (FOUs) at each Zone and the CGC Compliance Team attached to various states. “The vehicles, according to the reports we read in the papers,  include Lexus Jeep -LX570, 2017 model; Land Cruiser Jeep-GXR,Toyota Prado, Toyata Hilux, Toyota Highlander, Mercedes Benz and other classic vehicles that were evacuated from many shops in Lagos. “Nigerians are expecting the Service to put these vehicles for so that people would be able to show interest or is the Service telling us that the vehicles are not for sale or meant for special people?” A senior officer however said the decision to sell or not to sell belongs to the Federal Government. “I don’t think the CGC can act alone without obtaining the necessary instruction from the government. “Those blaming the CG need to take their greviances to the government. We are aware that those that that are sponsoring the campaign against the CGC are those that were caught in the web by our eagle eye officers. Remember that some of the seized vehicles were sold to the public recently and the process is on-going,” the officer said. Also, Segun Adebanjo said all exotic cars  seized by the Service should be sold to the public in line with the transparency and accountability campaign of the government.