he Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has granted 412 foreign-trained Nigerian doctors the nod to practise medicine in the country. The breakdown shows 407 medical doctors and five dentists. A total of 893 foreign-trained medical and dental students appeared for the examination, while 412 successful ones were inducted. The overall percentage pass is 46. The doctors, who had to undergo another training and examination on returning to the country, were inducted yesterday. At the ceremony in Abuja, the nation’s capital, the Chairman of the council, Prof. Abba Waziri Hassan, urged the Federal Government to domicile the central internship fund in the council. This, he said, is to enable the council centralise internship project this year. The fund is already captured in this year’s budget. Hassan also appealed to state governments to upgrade at least three hospitals that will be suitable for internship and to recruit the required number of consultants to supervise them. This, he said, would create enough spaces for internship every year. Hassan also emphasised the need for parents to be cautious about which countries to send their children for training. The MDCN council chairman noted that there were efforts to increase the capacities of existing medical schools across the country. His summation may not be unconnected with the rate of failure in the examinations organised for foreign students, which recorded 46 per cent pass rate. He said: “Some of the candidates are very good, as reflected by their performance in the assessment examination.” To the new doctors, Hassan said, advised them to be dedicated and humble in practice. Before administering Hippocratic Oath on the inductees, the Registrar of the Council, Dr Tajudeen Sanusi, warned them against acts that violate the code of ethics of the profession. He said: “Doctors shoulder a lot of responsibilities and the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria will not tolerate ethical misconduct.” It was learnt that 120 practising doctors were under investigations for alleged professional misconducts, while 60 were awaiting trials at the MDCN Tribunal. Sanusi said the council’s code of ethics was under review, adding that the review of the council’s Act was in progress. The guest lecturer, Dr. Shehu Sule, called for a review of the medical and dental council’s code of ethics. This, he said, had become necessary due to emerging trends in medicine. “New health innovations and challenges have, however, brought rethinking and revision of these ethical guidelines for effect,” Sule said. Congratulating the inductees, the guest lecturer advised them to face the future with boldness and be curious, compassionate, creative, consultative and caring to their patients. “Make your own way in life and add value to the medical practice in Nigeria,” he added.