MEMBERS of the Ogunde family, Agbowa-Ikosi, in Ejirin, Epe, Lagos State, have fled their homes, following attacks on them by suspected land grabbers. They said their land was encroached on and their bid to retrieve it led to attacks on them. At a news briefing over the weekend, the family said they fled their ancestral homes to avoid being killed. The family comprising Pa David Ogunde, Chief Nurudeen Odumeru Ogunde, Mr. Lateef Ogunde, Mr. Bankole Oke, among others, appealed to security agencies and the government to rescue them from land grabbers, who had allegedly turned them to internally displaced persons. A spokesperson for the family, Nurudeen Ogunde, said after years of legal battle, the High Court of Lagos in the Ikorodu Judicial Division on May 20, ruled in their favour. He said despite the ruling affirming the Ogunde royal family as owners of the land called Atere farmland in Agbowa-Ikosi, measuring approximately 389.498 hectares, the land grabbers disobeyed the court. Ogunde urged the relevant authorities to enforce the judgment, which declared them owners of the property, saying the land grabbers had been acting with impunity because they were being backed by some ‘powerful people’. “They have been selling our land. They vowed never to allow us get our land despite the judgment. We appeal to the government and security agencies to rescue us from these usurpers who have been wreaking havoc,” he said. In a petition signed by their lawyer, Bayo Omoniyi & Co., sent to the coordinator of the task force and copied to the office of Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, the family alleged a take-over of their land at Atere by a suspected land grabber, assisted by an Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) leader. “That sometime in 2005, the land grabber invaded the town and forcibly ejected our clients, who fled to adjoining towns and villages because their homeland had been turned into a theatre of war. “That because our clients cannot challenge them because of the cache of arms in their possession, our clients had to go to court by instituting an action against their principals at the Ikorodu Division of the Lagos High Court in suit No. IKJ/54/13, Pa David B. Odumeru Ogunde & four others vs Mr. Nojeem Oduyero Ojupon & 16 others,” the petition reads. The petitioners alleged further that despite a court order delivered on May 20, which gave a perpetual injunction against the invaders and in favour of his clients, the OPC leader and the land grabber brought more hoodlums to the land to ensure the plaintiffs never return to the land. “It is so bad that they went after all of us, looking for us to kill us after invading the land with weapons and threatening our wives and children after we (the fathers) ran away for our dear lives. Up till now, the situation persists, as the land grabber has since stationed hoodlums working on their behalf on our land,” Ogunde added.