Access Bank Plc is offering holiday makers the opportunity to enjoy bespoke financial services and exclusive privileges across the world through its premium service, XclusivePlus. XclusivePlus is a premium service that is available to any customer of the bank that appreciates preferential treatment. It is a subscription-based service that costs only N5,999 per month in exchange for unique services that suit individual’s lifestyle needs. Head, Consumer Proposition, Access Bank Plc, Adaeze Ume said that the introduction of XclusivePlus was as a result of a survey conducted among the bank’s customers, which revealed a rise in customers’ expenditure on luxury travel, luxury experiences and luxury products. She said XclusivePlus was designed to give all customers of the bank the opportunity to realise their dreams and enjoy the best of treatments with the barest minimum cost possible. “For many average affluent individuals, a life of luxury remains a dream. However, for as low as N5,999 per month, Access Bank will help you live this dream with the unique XclusivePlus service – a package that gives you a luxurious life on a not-so-luxury budget,” Ume said. According to her, XclusivePlus is a premium lifestyle offering specifically designed to provide customers with the exceptional service and exclusive privileges that they deserve. It was launched in October 2018 and today has thousands of subscribers who understand the value of the proposition. She noted that it takes less than two minutes to subscribe to XclusivePlus with only N5, 999, adding that subscriber can also choose to make an upfront payment for one year and get a 20 per cent discount. She outlined the benefits of XclusivePlus to include free upgrade to a Visa Signature debit card – a debit card with access to local and international spend, travelling in style with free access to over 800 premium airport lounges globally and free medical emergency cover for the subscribers and their loved ones anytime they travel.