A retired Commissioner of Police, Diseye Nsirim-Poweigha on Friday became the first female governorship aspirant to obtain the APC nomination and expression of interest for to contest the August 29, 2019 APC governorship primary ahead of the November 16 governorship election. Nsirim-Poweigha who served as Commissioner of Police in Niger state advocate for adequate funding of the nation’s security saying government must put more money into the security architecture, pointing out that it is only in a secured environment that can attract investment. Coming into the race with vast experience in security, she said the communication system in Bayelsa state has completely broken down, making it difficult for security personnel’s in one part of the state to communicate with their colleagues in other parts. She also said that the entire Bayelsa state have only two major roads, a situation she said is not good enough, stressing that available natural resources in the state have been left untapped. She said “Our youths have now become kidnappers because they don’t have work to do since the government in place has not provided any for them. Bayelsa has alot of mineral resources which has been left untapped. it does not have a good housing system. Everybody is struggling to get houses for themselves. “Give us a chance to make the difference in Bayelsa. A situation of saying women cannot rule Nigeria should not be allowed to continue because we have seen women serving as great leaders in other parts of the world. Communication system in Bayelsa state has completely broken down. You cannot communicate with some body in other parts of the state. “When we come to power, we will work with the security agencies to address the security situation in the state because without security, there will be no investment or industries in the state. It is a shame that with all it’s resources, there are no industries in the state. “It is not what you have in terms of political experience that matters or that will bring you to power. Some of these people have without their political experience have not been able to address the problems in the state.
“Government need to put more money into the security apparatus of the state. Security is not only government business. It is everyone’s business. Whether state or federal police, what is needed is adequate funding.”