President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration’s efforts at eradicating hepatitis C disease by 2022 have been described as realistic and applauded to yield fruits.  This was the submission of Pharco Corporation, an Egypt-based international pharmaceuticals company, which has vowed to support Nigeria’s health systems through awareness generation and provision of medication for the elimination of the disease. The company said it hopes to leverage its track record to help Nigeria succeed in its determination to eradicate hepatitis C. Through partnership agreements, Pharco has assisted the Egyptian government to cure more that 1.9 million hepatitis C patients in a space of three years, with similar feats being performed in Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire and Sudan. Through its strategic Nigerian partner, SEPAT Pharmaceuticals Limited, the Egyptian pharmaceutical giant said it has harkened to the yearnings of Nigerians because the government’s efforts at eliminating hepatitis C appear both genuine and realisable. According to SEPAT’s Managing Director, Ozo Pat Ifeanyi Oramah, Pharco Corporation is bringing into Nigeria a track record of experience and verifiable success story across Africa in the elimination of the deadly disease. This feat is being made possible through a product completely made in Egypt, thus suitable and efficacious for Africans. To achieve the 2022 target of hepatitis C eradication in Nigeria, Pharco will soon commence a country-wide screening exercise where over 15,000 rapid tests are conducted for early detection of antibodies and hepatitis, among other measures already put in place. Oramah disclosed further that his company would also partner with the Federal Ministry of Health in the monitoring of various exercises and programmes, through its diagnostic partner company, which would be followed up with the provision of technical training of PRC handling and maintenance of its equipment. Another key area which the international pharmaceutical corporation would be supporting Nigeria is in the area of awareness creation, with students in higher institutions, market women, artisans and the aged as major target audience. In a compressive campaign, the International Club of Hepatitis C, powered by Pharco Corporation, will embark on aggressive awareness campaigns in Nigerian universities, polytechnics, colleges of education and other tertiary institutions through brochures, on-the-ground and social media campaigns. “The vision of our partners, Pharco of Egypt, through the initiative and passionate drives of the CEO, Dr. Sherin Helmy, Africa Free of Hepatitis C 2025 Initiative is to eliminate hepatitis C in Africa by 2025. With the laudable programmes and the commitment of the present government in Nigeria through the federal Ministry of Health, we are convinced that with the right synergies and partnerships, the 2022 date set to eradicate the disease is feasible. Pharco Corporation and SEPAT are committed to it and we will do all within our means towards attaining the goal,” Oramah added. Hepatitis C is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV): the virus can cause both acute and chronic hepatitis, ranging in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness. It is said to be a major cause of liver cancer because it causes few symptoms, most sufferers don’t know until it is too late. The virus is spread through contaminated blood, like sharing needles or from unsterile tattoo equipment. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), approximately 399 000 people died from hepatitis C, mostly from cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer) in 2016. While there is currently no effective vaccine against hepatitis C, antiviral medicines can cure more than 95 per cent of persons with hepatitis C infection, thereby reducing the risk of death from cirrhosis and liver cancer. Over 100,000 cases are experiencedyearly in Nigeria, but majority such are not reported because more than 90 per cent of sufferers are not aware of their infection status until it becomes severe or fatal. Globally, an estimated 71 million people have chronic hepatitis C virus infection. On the African continent, hepatitis has remained a major killer with a vast majority of patients unaware of their infection status until it becomes chronic. According to WHO, Africa has the highest estimated regional HCV prevalence of 5.3 per cent, with Nigeria having a high prevalence of HCV 2.2 per cent, especially in the northern parts of the country. This has forced the government to commence a campaign to expand awareness among the public and ensure that half of hepatitis C patients are aware of their infection status.