LOOKING good in the rain can be tough especially when you want to keep  your makeup spotless . The toll is pretty harsh on face, hair and body in general. In order to be able to flash our best side, it is essential to bunch up the most vital tips to keep our makeup dazzling. Apply these tips and bring out the best of your look in this season. This time of year promises quick and surprise showers that can ruin our look .. Though there’s no need to quit using makeup, it is still wise to acquire all the helpful professional tricks and face the rainy days with confidence and style. As the seasons change, it is recommended to learn the new way of applying cosmetics and using the right products our skin really requires. Besides the vital skin care rituals, there are other practices that must be applied for the best results. The keywords when it comes to rainy season makeup are water-proof and light makeup. These are two qualities that are essential to surviving this period with a flawless look. If you manage to adopt the tendencies of the season, you’ll see the beneficial results pretty soon. Smudging and other makeup disasters can be easily prevented if you approach the problem from the right angle. Let’s see the most important makeup tips for rainy season.  Makeup base Beginning at the base, it is worth mentioning that often the main cause of smudging is the excessive foundation use. Those who find it indispensable might still use a thin coat of it. However, it should be preferably water resistant.  Eye makeup Rain immediately means waterproof mascara. Since normal mascara would quickly smudge when in contact with humidity, it is recommended to use a special formula that will resist the extreme weather conditions.  Blush It is a common mistake that ladies commit each rainy season. They use a blush with an inappropriate texture. The rainy days scream for complex compositions, that’s why it is a golden rule that when sporting a water-proof makeup we should choose a mousse or cream blush that can resist the impact of humidity. Makeup gurus often neglect the use of blush and instead practice a smashing trick. They use a bit of lipstick you can spread with your fingernails and the effect is just as gorgeous as with the use of blush.  Lip makeup Lip gloss is the top notch no-no beauty product of the season. It might get in contact with humidity which can result in smudging and an unflattering look. That’s why you should rather rely on high quality lipstick that will fabulously top your makeup. There are several formulas and brands on the market that guarantee a long-lasting effect. Make sure you test it beforehand in order to avoid any lip makeup accidents. You can either go for the blood red lips effect or for the classy and natural makeup trends. Choose the one you can pull off with great style in order to perfect your look