The Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND) has appealed to Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel to assent to the Youth Development Fund Bill passed by the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly. The bill passed into law by the 6th Assembly seeks to provide youths with job opportunities and other windows for empowerment and wealth creation. PIND’s Project Leader, Mr. Emeka Ile made the appeal at a one-day dissemination workshop and roundtable on Private Sector Engagement and Partnership in the Niger Delta Youth Employment Pathway Project held at Luton Park Hotel, Uyo. Ile assured that the governor’s assent to the bill would address the myriad of challenges which the youth experience, including restiveness and unemployment. He said: “That is why we want this bill to be assented to without delay. We call on Governor Emmanuel to expedite action and ensure that the bill already passed by the House of Assembly is assented to without delay. “I am sure that if the bill is assented to, it will go a long way in addressing youth unemployment and restiveness.” He said PIND is exploring four key areas of economic development such as peace-building, capacity building and analysis and advocacy to tackle youth unemployment in the Niger Delta. The project leader said PIND’s experience has shown that connecting job seekers and market actors  can result in more productive ventures. The target group, he said, are the unemployed youths of the three pilot states with a primary focus on young male and female school leavers between the ages of 16 and 26, including the young people living in rural areas and women and people living with disabilities. He revealed that out of 1,600 youths who registered with the foundation, 1,468 of them drawn from the pilot states have completed their registration process and are undergoing training in various areas, including aquaculture. Mr. Ile said out of a total of 400 youths drawn from Akwa Ibom State, 197 are in aquaculture, 150 in ICT and 97 in different construction skills. In his remarks, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and Culture, Mr. Effiong Edet said the objectives of the foundation were in line with government’s policies and programmes for youth development. He said Governor Emmanuel has invested heavily on youth development projects, adding that the state government would partner with the foundation to create better opportunities for the youth in order to address youth restiveness and unemployment. He said: “Governor Emmanuel is passionate about youth development and has spent a lot of resources in youth development projects. Youths are important to the success of any government. That is why this government has trained over 500 youths in agriculture and ICT, in an attempt to ensure that Akwa Ibom youths are taken off the streets.”