The National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) has expressed dissatisfaction with it called the slow pace of the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System (NICIS 2). It also described the platform as “static“, ”inept” and “retrograde” in operation. It urged the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to engage stake-holders in port operations before embarking on innovations to boost trade facilitation. NICIS is a portal introduced by the Customs to enhance,  secure and facilitate trade. It is aimed at harmonising and integrating trade chain. Since its introduction in 2017, it has aided trade facilitation and the ease of doing business at the ports. But to NAGAFF president Dr Increase Uche, NICIS 2 has failed to meet stakeholders’ expectation in the clearance of goods from the ports. According to him, the only way to improve on facilitation of trade is to embrace the right portal. Uche noted that during ASYCUDA’s era, the traders and Customs zones, facilitated trade. He said:”You can’t be subjecting all the cargoes to physical examination; you have to provide scanners because it is long overdue. Since 2012, the portal has remained the same. Customs could not continue from where the service providers ended. “Even the new system that customs introduced from NICIS 1 to NICIS 2, it has not really worked as we expected. “Whether they are still doing the pilotage stage. But if indeed they have started full implementation of NICIS 2, we need to see change, we need to see it reflect in the pattern in which things are done and the way businesses are conducted in the port. “As at the last time, I was still telling them that we are yet to see the impact of NICIS 2 because what we saw during ASYCUDA 2.7 and 3.0 seemed to be better than what we are seeing today. ‘’In NICIS 2, there has not been a clear departure from what obtained before it’s introduction. “Formally, when we had the traders zone and customs zone, some of these non-compliance were almost reducing. “All of a sudden, the NICIS 2 came up and the trader zone was terminated and every other thing was jampacked and there was no more clear cut procedure. “Immediately you do your declaration, you wouldn’t know where you are going until you bring the container out. “Everything you see in terms of interruptions from intelligence unit, investigative unit and others up to nine of them.” It has never been like this before. “What we are advising is that stakeholders input have to be included before introducing these current regimes.” he stressed.