Ellah Lakes Plc has launched a process to increase its authorised share capital and raise new capital, as the agricultural company seeks to diversify its business. The board of directors of Ellah Lakes has scheduled a meeting of shareholders by the month-end to consider the proposals for an increase in authorised share capital and new capital raising exercise. At the meeting, shareholders are expected to consider and pass a resolution authorising the increase in authorised share capital of the company from N1 billion of 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to N1.5 billion of 3.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each through the creation of additional 1.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. The meeting is also expected to approve a resolution authourising the board of the company “to raise additional capital whether by way of debt, equity, or a mixture of both, or via public offering, private placement or right issue in such tranches, series or proportions and such prices or interest rates, within such maturity periods, at such dates and time and on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the directors, subject to the requisite approval of the relevant regulatory authorities”. Shareholders are also expected to approve the recent appointments unto the management and board of the company. Ellah Lakes, one of Nigeria’s foremost agriculture businesses with specialty in fish farming, recently acquired Telluria in order to diversify its product offerings in the agribusiness sector. Ellah Lakes was incorporated on July 2, 1980 and was listed on the NSE on January 14, 1993. The company had last month listed 1.88 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each issued to shareholders of Telluria Limited as consideration for 100 per cent acquisition of Telluria. The new shares were listed on the NSE, bringing the new shares at par with the old shares of Ellah Lakes. With the listing, the total issued and fully paid up shares of Ellah Lakes increased from 120 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to 2.0 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Ellah Lakes had acquired 100 per cent equity stake in Telluria with effect from May 7, 2019. Having complied with all the necessary regulatory requirements, the acquisition was approved by the NSE and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Ellah Lakes stated that the primary objective of the acquisition was to strengthen its balance sheet, restore customer confidence, provide access to new markets, improve operations and create organisational efficiencies that will drive profitability and increase shareholders’ value. According to the company, the board of directors and management consider this business combination to be in its best interest as the transaction will help to revitalise management and create access to diversified expertise and financial strength. The company added that the acquisition would also help to improve administrative and operational efficiencies as well as strengthen its market position by increasing access to new products and markets. With the acquisition, Ellah Lakes appointed Mr. Chuka Mordi as its Managing Director with effect from June 12, 2019. Mordi took over from Mr. Frank Ellah, who remains on the board as a non-executive director. Prior to appointment,  Mordi was a director in Telluria and the Managing Partner of CBO Investment Management.