The security architecture proposed by Southwest governors will be launched next month, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde said on Sunday. Makinde, who was speaking at a special thanksgiving service in honour of his mother, Madam Abigail Makinde, at St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Yemetu, Ibadan, said his administration has a plan to launch a state-wide security system before its 100 days in office. The governor was quoted in statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Taiwo Adisa, as saying that Southwest states have been meeting to find lasting solutions to the security challenges in the region. The governor said: “I and other governors of the Southwest have met on how to launch a new security architecture before the end of August 2019. The first 100 days of this government will be on the 5th of September and before then, we will launch a new security architecture in Oyo state.” He was reacting to a section of the homily by the officiating cleric, Venerable Samuel Osungbeju, which harped on the rising waves of insecurity in the land. Listing security, health, education and economy as the four key pillars of his administration, the governor said that his government would strengthen supervision and monitoring of the implementation of health and education policies. According to him, the government would concentrate on job creation to take jobless youths off the streets. He said all the listed areas would get priority attention under his watch. On health, he said: “I have visited Adeoyo State Hospital and I will soon be visiting other state hospitals in Igbeti, Saki, Ogbomoso, and Oyo. What I saw at Adeoyo was more of window dressing. The radiography machine has never worked since it was installed. “It means that the past government spent some money in the Health sector but they did not monitor the implementation. If it is only monitoring we can achieve, we would have done well for the Health sector in Oyo state.” Venerable Samuel Osungbeju called for love and tolerance among Nigerians adding that people should always show love to other fellow human beings. “No nation or State can prosper and develop without love among its people,” he said, adding that incessant maiming and killing of innocent citizens across the country called for concerted prayers and divine intervention”, the cleric said.