I reproduce below, History.com Editors’ capture of the Rwandan Genocide which began on April 6, 1994 after a plane carrying Habyarimana and Burundi’s President Cyprien Ntaryamira was shot down over the capital city of Kigali, leaving no survivors. The casus belli for a war can be just about anything. It could be as little as some fake news or a hate speech.  For World War I, it was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Sarajevo who, with his wife, was cut down by 19-year-old Serbian nationalist Gavrilo Princip. That was the small speck which resulted in one of the bloodiest wars in human history resulting in 35 million + Military deaths at 9.7 million. Wounded were 21.2 million and prisoners of war and missing soldiers were put at 7.5 million. I am not giving these details for fun.  Please recall that the world expected Nigeria to have unravelled in 2015,  and  although  then  U.S  Ambassador  to Nigeria,  Mr. Terence McCulley,  categorically denied it, not a few people believed that the United States was promoting a breakup, in what  is commonly  known as the ’tissue scarcity scare’ scenario, where the suggestion and promotion of a concept leads to its manifestation. Indeed, a U. S group actually predicted a Nigeria break up in the months leading to the 2015 general election. I write all this now to enjoin our leaders, as well as ordinary Nigerians, to put the interest of this country at heart and do NOTHING that can lead Nigeria into war. There is no small war and if there is anybody out there who does not yet know it, a war in Nigeria is guaranteed to be bloody; and will cause years of internal convulsion and unimaginable suffering.  I cannot see the entire West African sub region containing Nigerian refugees. Will our leaders,  therefore, beginning with President Muhammadu Buhari,  please dedicate the next  many  months  to putting in place those structures, agencies, processes  and constitutional reforms, that will cohere our country of many nations, and begin anew, a re-building  process  that will turn Nigeria away from its present march to  Golgotha. Happily, President Buhari will not have to re-invent the wheel.  If like me, he is not enamoured with the opportunistic 2014 Nigeria Confab which his party, the APC, disavowed of ab initio, we already have in place, the party’s EL RUFAI COMMITTEE recommendations on power devolution. He should immediately call a national summit, not the usual jamboree – consisting of persons knowledgeable in these matters, to critically interrogate, and deepen, the recommendations of that committee. With minimum fuss, the National Assembly should rapidly pass appropriate laws to enable a national referendum to which the recommendations would be remitted for ratification. This needn’t take a full year if we are serious. At the same time, government could set up a committee of experts. Along the lines suggested  by  Professor Olatunji Dare in his column in The Nation of Tuesday, July 16, 2019 in respect of the raging farmers/ herders crisis.  He wrote: “A committee of accomplished agronomists, agricultural economists, veterinary scientists, rural sociologists, working with representatives of pastoralists, farmers, and farm labour should be set up to define the situation and prepare within six months wide-ranging” guidelines aimed at, once and for all,  solving the hydra- headed problem in a more pragmatic way. For Nigeria to remain one, united country, time is of the essence. The Rwandan genocide During the Rwandan genocide of 1994, members of the Hutu ethnic majority murdered as many as 800,000 people, mostly of the Tutsi minority. Started by Hutu nationalists in the capital of Kigali, the genocide spread throughout the country with shocking speed and brutality, By the time the Tutsi-led Rwandese Patriotic Front gained control of the country through a military offensive in early July, hundreds of thousands of Rwandans were dead and two million refugees (mainly Hutus) had fled Rwanda, exacerbating what had already become a full-blown humanitarian crisis. Rwandan ethnic tensions By the early 1990s, Rwanda, a small country with an overwhelmingly agricultural economy, had one of the highest population densities in Africa. About 85 percent of its population was Hutu; the rest were Tutsi, along with a small number of Twa, a Pygmy group who were the original inhabitants of Rwanda. Part of German East Africa from 1894 to 1918, Rwanda came under the League of Nations mandate of Belgium after World War I, along with neighbouring Burundi. Rwanda’s colonial period, during which the ruling Belgians favoured the minority Tutsis over the Hutus, exacerbated the tendency of the few to oppress the many, creating a legacy of tension that exploded into violence even before Rwanda gained its independence. A Hutu revolution in 1959 forced as many as 300,000 Tutsis to flee the country, making them an even smaller minority. By early 1961, victorious Hutus had forced Rwanda’s Tutsi monarch into exile and declared the country a republic. After a United Nations referendum that same year, Belgium officially granted independence to Rwanda in July 1962. Ethnically motivated violence continued in the years following independence. In 1973, a military group installed Major General Juvenal Habyarimana, a moderate Hutu, in power. The sole leader of Rwandan government for the next two decades, Habyarimana founded a new political party, the National Revolutionary Movement for Development (NRMD). He was elected president under a new constitution ratified in 1978 and reelected in 1983 and 1988, when he was the sole candidate. In 1990, forces of the Rwandese Patriotic Front (RPF), consisting mostly of Tutsi refugees, invaded Rwanda from Uganda. A ceasefire in these hostilities led to negotiations between the government and the RPF in 1992. In August 1993, Habyarimana signed an agreement at Arusha, Tanzania, calling for the creation of a transition government that would include the RPF. This power-sharing agreement angered Hutu extremists, who would soon take swift and horrible action to prevent it. Rwandan genocide begins On April 6, 1994, a plane carrying Habyarimana and Burundi’s president Cyprien Ntaryamira was shot down over the capital city of Kigali, leaving no survivors. Within an hour of the plane crash, the Presidential Guard, together with members of the Rwandan armed forces (FAR) and Hutu militia groups, set up roadblocks and barricades and began slaughtering Tutsis and moderate Hutus with impunity. Here in Nigeria, God forbid, a single killing can be the match stick. Among the first victims of the genocide were the moderate Hutu Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana and her 10 Belgian bodyguards, killed on April 7. This violence created a political vacuum, into which an interim government of extremist Hutu Power leaders from the military high command stepped on April 9. The mass killings in Kigali quickly spread from that city to the rest of Rwanda, with some 800,000 people slaughtered over the next three months. During this period, local officials and government-sponsored radio stations called on ordinary Rwandan civilians to murder their neighbours. Meanwhile, the RPF resumed fighting, and civil war raged alongside the genocide. By early July, RPF forces had gained control over most of the country, including Kigali. In response, more than 2 million people, nearly all Hutus, fled Rwanda, crowding into refugee camps in the Congo (then called Zaire) and other neighbouring countries. After its victory, the RPF established a coalition government similar to that agreed upon at Arusha, with Pasteur Bizimungu, a Hutu, as president and Paul Kagame, a Tutsi, as vice president and defence minister. Habyarimana’s NRMD party, which had played a key role in organising the genocide, was outlawed, and a new constitution adopted in 2003 eliminated reference to ethnicity. The new constitution was followed by Kagame’s election to a 10-year term as Rwanda’s president and the country’s first-ever legislative elections. As in the case of atrocities committed in the former Yugoslavia around the same time, the international community largely remained on the sidelines during the Rwandan genocide. A United Nations Security Council vote in April 1994 led to the withdrawal of most of a U.N. peacekeeping operation (UNAMIR), created the previous fall to aid with governmental transition under the Arusha accord. As reports of the genocide spread, the Security Council voted in mid-May to supply a more robust force, including more than 5,000 troops. By the time that force arrived in full, however, the genocide had been over for months. That exactly is what happens in the end: we will have to carry our own can as international do-gooders turn their backs. TO FUNKE ETERNAL REST For me, the passing of Mrs Funke Olakunrin is a personal grief. I lived in Akure for many years and Papa took me as nothing short of an adopted son. In my inner mind, I can still hear Funke calling ‘Uncle Femi, Uncle Femi.’ The good Lord will rest her soul in perpetuity and comfort Papa and all members of the Fasoranti and Olakunrin families.