Comedian/actor Ayo Makun who is popularly known as AY, have hit back on a follower by the Instagram name Faruk Jude, who says the comedian was showing off, following a video posted by AY which showed his mansion in promotion of AkpororovsAkpororo show that took place over the weekend. While congratulating AY, the follower who compared AY to the likes of Aliko Dangote, Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos said they won’t do a thing like that. “Dangote, Bill Gate or Jeff Bezos. Won’t do a thing like this. Congrat same,” he wrote. Replying the latter, AY wrote,”@farukjude They will not do it because they are not in showbusiness. I am in showbusiness. Without the show no business. The way you take remember come comment, na so another person go see this same video remember call my number to ask me to come and MC him event. Thanks for the sub congratulatory message though.” “THE REASON THEM DANGOTE WILL NOT DO IT… First things first, you must always remember that @aycomedian is in the business of entertainment. More so, entertainment on the other hand is any activity which provides a diversion or permits people to amuse themselves in their leisure time, and may also provide fun, enjoyment, and laughter. In other words i can create my own entertainment by spontaneously inventing ideas; or participate actively in any activity you may find entertaining. Also citing that some go into showbiz to be noticed, “If we are going to be honest with ourselves, we should admit that some of us go into show business wanting people to talk about us and wanting everyone to know who we are and the things we can do. But that also does not take away the fact that there are a whole bunch of people who will still not like us. No matter how we try.” “Why do you think talents post their works online? Why do people watch The Kardashians even when some believe that they have less talent like AY? Why would some people come out of Big Brother Nigeria and suddenly become relevant? It’s all because in show business you must have something to show before the business would come. Entertaining you and showing you a part of my lifestyle might surprisingly just be me carrying out my brand ambassadorial duty in the video that went viral. Do you even know if the builders of my house or sellers of my cars are giving me a percentage for every contact I bring? Abi na crime to promote my wife @Midas_interiors work too? “We are all here to HUSTLE. Always speak for yourself and leave them Dangote out of it. Even DJ Cuppy don dey introduce Otedola enter showbiz by flying to Italy to buy ice-cream.  Lol.Above all I want to be an inspiration to every young person that wants to get into show business. Hard work, perseverance, and discipline: all the things you need when want to be an Ay.  May God make you BIGGER,” he said.