Following the ministerial nominees list sent to the Senate by President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, it is safe to conclude that the days of Barrister Solomon Selcap Dalung as Nigeria’s minister of youths and sports is over. Dalung had once assured Nigerian of his re-appointment as minister by the President. According to him, if it is the will of God that he comes back, then “there is nobody born of a woman that can stop my appointment”. He made this declaration in June, after Buhari dissolved his first cabinet on May 28, 2019. Sports loving Nigerians will however not forget the 54-year old Plateau State man in a hurry. Assuming office in November 2015, he was first noticed as a minister with a unique style of dressing. With his Khaki-uniform and red beret cap, which he graced public functions with most of the time; it was clear that he wanted to stand out as minister. He was once asked why he chose that style of dressing, and he said that he is always embarrassed with comments like ‘Oh! You look sweet, you look good’ when he does, that, but putting on his khaki, nobody remembers to say good morning to him, and that gives him peace. Sports in Nigeria experienced its ups and downs under Barrister Solomon Dalung. Notable achievements he had was the back-to-back victories recorded by the Super Falcons of Nigeria in the 2016 and 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations. The Super Eagles of Nigeria also made an appearance at the 2018 FIFA World Cup and 2019 Africa Cup of Nations with Dalung as Sports Minister. The Dream Team VI also qualified for the 2016 Rio Olympics male football tournament, and even went as far as getting a bronze medal for Nigeria. The National Sports Festival took place successfully in December 2018 in Abuja, the swimming pool of the National Stadium, Surulere Lagos was finally renovated after 18 years, and attention was given to special sports with the gym for training renovated through the private sector, under Solomon Dalung. Nigerians will however not forget his bitter row with the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). In an interview, Dalung said “One of the challenges I faced, which is quite unfortunate, is the Nigeria Football Federation crisis. I was committed to seeing how to end that crisis. I sought for justice and understanding. I believe that throughout the crisis, there was no decision that I took that was for personal interest” The case of a missing $135,000, which the IAAF transferred to the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, happened with Dalung at the helm of affairs. Although he maintained that the money has been transferred back to the IAAF, the world athletics body insists they have not received anything of such. It is learnt that the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission have begun investigation on the missing money. Nigerians will not forget Dalung for his use of language. The former minister had once described the participation of the Super Eagles at the 2018 World Cup as “a waste of money” because “Nigeria cannot win the World Cup”. Hopes are high on who takes over as minister of youths and sports. With sports lovers such as former minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji-Fashola and Festus Keyamo penciled down in the list submitted on Tuesday, Nigerians await the next man to steer the ship of sports in the country, taking it to the next level.