A non- governmental organisation, Actionaid Nigeria, has called for the close monitoring of the implementation of agricultural projects in the upcoming budget by all relevant stakeholders, including the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ministry of Budget and National Planning , state ministries of agriculture and agriculture committees in the National and state houses of assemblies. This was contained in a communiqué issued at the end of 2-day stakeholders’ consultative meeting on the 2020 agriculture budget organised by ActionAid Nigeria in conjunction with Oxfam, One Campaign, CAACP Non–State Actors Coalition, CNC, Ministry of Budget and National Planning and the Department of Agriculture and Water Resources of the ECOWAS Commission. The communique stated that the objectives of the stakeholders’ consultative meeting on the 2020 Agriculture budget become imperative to leverage understanding on the economic recovery and growth plan and Nigerian Agriculture promotion policy, in connection with the comprehensive African Agriculture Development programme target. It targeted enhancing the knowledge of citizens on the National Agriculture Investment Plan 2 to strengthen participation towards making the 2020 agriculture budget responsive in ensuring food security and wealth creation, and support effective biennial reporting by Nigeria to the African Union Heads of States and government, in line with the Malabo Declaration and commitments of 2014. To this end the participants from FMARD, state ministries of agriculture, MDAs and relevant stakeholders, recommended that with the signing of the African Continental Free Trade by President Muhammadu Buhari, there is the urgent need for massive investment in the agricultural sector, for the sake of enhanced domestic consumption, rural infrastructural development and export promotion, and for Nigeria to avail herself of the opportunities it offers. “The gains made by the sector MDAs as mentioned in the commendation should be sustained and improved upon in 2020 Agriculture budget ,the GES retained and budget should be increased to address the inputs gabs experience by smallholder farmer ,especially women. “There should be political will to allocate at least 10 percent of annual budgets and actuals of revenues to the agriculture sector and to increase the realization of the Maputo and Malabo benchmark for agriculture investment. “Women and youths are homogenous groups, therefore their budget line should be separated, to ease implementation, monitoring and evaluation. “There should be a scale up of investment in types of public spending that has been shown by evidence to yield better economic outcomes. This includes smallholder farmers, especially women and youths in agriculture, promotion and development value chains, agriculture finance credit, agriculture insurance and more programmes”, it stated. ActionAid Nigeria in collaboration with Oxfam, One Campaign and the ECOWAS Commission commended MDAs for their commitment to collaborate with Non State Actors, “which should be sustained for more inclusive and responsive agriculture policy and budget making process in Nigeria”. “We also commend the allocation of a higher capital component than recurrent for developmental projects in the 2019 agriculture budget at the federal level and some states. This should be maintained and increased.”, they emphasized.