Dr. Sani Aliyu left his top job as the Director General of the National Agency for Control of AIDS (NACA), it was learnt. Aliyu it was learnt has his eyes on Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) top job. There is vacancy for the Executive Director, UNAIDS. President Muhammadu Buhari has since appointed Gambo Aliyu as his replacement. It was learnt that the former NACA boss has applied for the UN job and there are high indications that he will likely get the job. Aliyu also has the backing of the former Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole who recommended him for the job based on his previous works and also performance as NACA boss including the recent concluded National survey on HIV/AIDS which has been declared has the biggest survey ever carried out. Adewole fingered him most suitable among all candidates running for the position. He said “The five candidates running for the position of UNAIDS Executive Director have each no doubt made significant contributions in their respective fields of endeavor. “Leading UNAIDS into the next era demands much more. Of the five, one candidate has the necessary mix of skills, experience, and temperament to hit the ground running, bringing people together and getting people to do the greatest things – Dr. Sani Aliyu, the remarkable infectious diseases specialist and Director General of Nigeria’s National Agency for the Control of AIDS.” He said. It will be recalled that Aliyu reluctantly accepted the job in the first place as it took him about five months after announcement of his appointment. At the time of his appointment in July 2016, he was a consultant in Microbiology and Infectious Diseases at Cambridge University, United Kingdom and did not resume until November 2016. He had his first degree at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and worked for a few years in the State House Clinic, Abuja, before moving to the United Kingdom in 1998 for further studies, partly in London and Cambridge.
He became a consultant in infectious diseases and medical microbiology in 2007 and was a senior hospital consultant in Cambridge University Hospital for 10 years before accepting the Nigeria job in 2016. Dr Sani Aliyu received his MBBS degree from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria in 1993. He worked as a medical officer at State House Clinic until 1998 when he moved to the U.K. to pursue a postgraduate programme at Imperial College, London. Dr Aliyu was appointed to the first joint training post in Infectious diseases and Medical Microbiology at Cambridge University Hospitals in 2001. He completed a Masters programme in Medical Microbiology at Queen Mary University of London in 2003 with distinction and was awarded the Draper Company Prize for the overall best graduating student. At the end of his specialist training in Cambridge, Dr Aliyu worked briefly for a year as a Consultant Microbiologist in Birmingham before returning to Cambridge University Hospitals in 2008 as the first joint consultant in Infectious diseases and Microbiology.