Social media marketing is a powerful way for businesses of all sizes to reach customers. It is important to know that your customers are already interacting with brands through social media, and if you’re not speaking directly to them through social platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest, you’re missing out. Here is looking at a few strategies that can help you build your market on Social Media 1. Hootsuite
Hootsuite is a special tool that helps you schedule your post. The tool also comes with a special feature that includes including Composer, an image editor that lets you resize and adjust photos. One sweet thing about Hootsuite is that it also helps you schedule on other social media accounts. All you need do is create a Hootsuite account today and you are just ready to go. 2. Adview
Ad view is a tool used for monitoring and responding to comments on your Instagram or Facebook ads.
The Adview dashboard makes it easier to keep track of comments that require action, versus attempting customer service via Instagram’s notification feed. 3. Panoramiq
Panoramiq helps you to keep track of trending hashtags and your competitor. This tool takes the stress out of that by taking care of the logistics. Its easy-to-navigate dashboard lets you track and compare the performance of multiple hashtags and competitors at once. 4. Chute
Reposting user-generated content can be a great way to engage with your audience and populate your feed social proof of your brand in action. But looking for the right content is time-consuming.
Chute helps you build and organize a content library based on tags, locations, and image-recognition technology. And it clears usage rights for you, too. 5. Hootsuite Analytics Analytics has access to real-time Instagram data. Hootsuite’s analytics dashboard goes above and beyond Instagram Insights, offering historical data, comparative analysis, customizable reports, and more. You can also monitor your accounts response time, and rank comments by positive or negative sentiment.
In addition to account metrics, Hootsuite Analytics also offers social listening tools that can track tags, mentions, keywords, and competitors. 6. Adobe Lightroom CC app
Adobe Lightroom CC app helps you to edit photos professionally. It helps you make sophisticated edits, from removing unwanted logos or imperfections, to adjusting background colours to coordinate with your brand’s style. 7. VSCO
VSCO is a photo editing tool. This tool is specifically special thanks to its popular “film-like” presets and editing tools. Users of VSCO have access to video colouring and editing tools, which are useful for both video posts and Instagram Stories. 8. Snapseed
Snapseed is a tool developed by Google. It offers a smooth workflow and several easy-to-use tools that help creators edit for mobile. 9. PromoRepublic
This tool offers a gallery of more than 100,000 templates and images for events, or everyday purposes. Its customization and editing tools make it easy to add branding and customize details. 10. Canva
Canva offers a large library of Instagram Stories and post templates that can be customized accordingly. Canva is great for designing infographics too.