DIGITEST, an annual creative camp and competition which started in 2000, has become a life laboratory where young minds between the ages of 8 and 18 are equipped with the requisite Information and Communication skills to become valuable human manpower. It is also positioned to be an asset that will drive the social and economic activities of the country, says DIGITEST National Coordinator, Mrs. Ibukun Odusote at the annual ICT event going on in Lagos with the theme “ E-governance: Accountability, creativity and transparency (ACT). The event is billed to last for 10 days. DIGITEST is a flagship programme of Digital Peers International, an IT-based NGO dedicated to building effective ICT capabilities in the nation’s vulnerable group (Children, Youth and Women) in the society through various initiatives. She said beyond ICT, DIGITEST has become a platform for impacting children with the culture of Leadership, entrepreneurship, cognitive development. It is also to learn about careers through the career classes, network with other children from diverse background. She revealed that DIGITEST has traversed various parts of the country and overseas with the intent of bridging the ‘global digital divide’ among youth, fostering unity amongst tribes and regions and also, encouraging intellectual interaction with contemporaries from other countries. On the objectives of DIGITEST, Odusote said it is to generate and develop ICT capabilities in young people to enable them contribute to development and poverty alleviation through ICT, promote knowledge based summer camping for children and youth and refocus youthful energies to gainful activities. Others are building effective capacity for the nation by exposing those identified talents to additional training. According to her an improved stakeholder involvement in the country would mean trumpeting the issues in governance and having everyone participate in the drive for finding solutions to these issues. She maintained that blockades will be dealt with and reforms effected which will ultimately lead to effective policy.