Three policemen, including an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), are currently being detained at the Warri Area Command of the Delta state police command over their alleged role in the death of a woman. The Nation gathered that the arrested policemen had on Sunday, July 20, at about 7:30pm, stopped the deceased, one Mrs Ugochukwu Grace Dabo, who was driving home in a Toyota Sienna Space Bus, with registration number AGL 822 EY, around Igbiki Junction, Ovwian/Aladja area of Udu council area. According to police sources, during interrogation by the patrolling policemen, the deceased was unable to produce the requested tinted glass windows permit, although all other papers were intact, leading to an impoundment of the vehicle and leaving the deceased on the spot. Things went wrong much later that evening when at about 9:00pm a man brought the corpse of the deceased to the Ovwian Police Station to report the killing of his wife by unknown Gunmen, after she had been abandoned by policemen on patrol, who had seized her car. “Immediately the man saw the DPO and narrated the matter, he (DPO) had to call for the arrest of the officers who had been on patrol in the area because, according to him, they had abandoned their duty post, which eventually led to the death of a free citizen. He has since transferred them to the Area Command (Warri). He also had to deposit the woman’s corpse at the mortuary that night. He was very furious that he’s just six days in the station and some persons had already started showing lack of professionalism”, the source said. Confirming the development and the steps being taken by the state command, the spokesperson of the Delta state police command, DSP Onome Onowakpoyeya, in a statement issued on Tuesday, said reports so far gathered indicated that the deceased was killed by a gang of three, which is still at large, adding that the state’s Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, had assured of thorough investigation into the incident. “However, on the same night, at about 2105hrs, her husband one Mr. Benjamin Dabo later reported to the DPO at the station that, while the woman was on her way home with her daughter in a commercial tri-cycle they boarded, she was attacked, robbed and shot dead by a three (3) man Armed Robbery gang operating with the same tricycle unknowingly boarded by her, but her 11yr old daughter survived the attack and escaped unhurt. She was able to narrate how her mother was killed by men of the underworld who are yet to be arrested. “The Commissioner of Police regrets the unfortunate incident leading to the death of the deceased and commiserates with her family members. He therefore assured members of the Public, and in particular the immediate family of the deceased, of the commitment of the Police to thoroughly investigate the role played by the Police in the incident and to ensure the arrest of the fleeing Armed Robbers with a view to ensuring that full justice is done without fear or favour,” the statement said.