Rookie Basketball Academy has won a mini competition organised at the Nigerian Police College, Ikeja, Lagos. The competition, tagged: ‘Easter Basketball Competition’ was aimed at sportsmanship among the students as well as prepare them for bigger roles in life. Six academy teams include Mark Spencer, Young Kings, Rookies Academy (team A and B), River Dragon, Cantonment Braves were invited to participated in the tournament. The host team, Rookies Basketball Academy showed supremacy over other teams. The team defeated Mark Spencer at the final stage of the competition while River Dragon also fought well to win 3rd place. The chief host, Coach Mark Balogun, said Rookie academy is about developing, nurturing and molding young kids into professional players who can represent the country and also play at international level. Balogun said that since the programme started in 1992, it has impacted on many youth on the streets, trained and lectured them to become professional players, playing for MacDonald and NBA in United State of America. “This academy has produced great players that played for the country, outside the country in the USA. A lot of them have made good names for themselves, the club and this country,” he said of the club achievement. “We’ve been able to keep the young ones off the street, keeping them busy, focus and concentrate with basketball, so that they will remove their eyes from vices. “From morning to night, you will see them coming to train and they are ignoring vices in the society. Because kids want to burn their energy, so we let them burn the energy in good things by playing basketball.” He said that basketball game is an elite and intelligent game, “you cannot see a tout playing basketball that is the game is different from other sport.” The team is affiliated to the Nigeria Police Basket Ball Association but its coach, however seek for government and corporate body’s support as the academy has help kids learn the basic fundamental of basketball. The tournament is supported by Tecno Mobile, Nigeria. 