The 8th Vice-Chancellor of the prestigious University of Port Harcourt, fondly called Unique UNIPORT, Prof. Ndowa Lale, is a lover of research, teaching, community service, training, retraining, special lectures, regular attendance of local and international conferences by members of staff, seminars and workshops through which their productivity and optimal performance would be enhanced. The style and preference of Lale, who assumed office on July 13, 2015, made him to fully support on May 2 this year, the third edition of the conference and workshop of the Journalism Educators’ Foundation (JEF), in conjunction with the Department of Linguistics and Communication Studies (LCS) of the Faculty of Humanities of the university. The first day (May 2) was for the conference at the auditorium of the newly-inaugurated Captain Elechi Amadi Faculty of Humanities Building, with the theme “Reporting Politics in a Multi-Party System,” and chaired by the Associate Dean of the Faculty of Humanities, Prof. Kingsley Owete. The second day of the conference on May 3 was for free workshop involving practicing journalists in Nigeria and beyond, at the Ernest Ikoli Press Centre of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Rivers State Council, on Moscow Road, old Government Reservation Area (GRA), Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, with the theme “Media for Democracy and Elections in Times of Disinformation.” The workshop coincided with the World Press Freedom Day, with papers presented by two resource persons: Drs. Chris Ochonogor and Faustinus Nwachukwu, while the Convener of JEF, Dr. Aniefiok Udoudo, and Chairperson of the Local Organising Committee (LOC) of the conference and workshop, Prof. Christie Omego, all of UNIPORT, were also in attendance. The well-researched paper by Ochonogor, who is also the Secretary, LOC, of the conference and workshop was entitled “Challenges of Reporting Politics in Times of Disinformation,” while Nwachukwu’s highly-educative paper had as its title: “Objectives in Reporting in the Era of Media Commercialisation.” The workshop was chaired by a former Deputy National President of the NUJ, Elder Vincent Ake, who is also the General Manager of the Rivers State Newspaper Corporation (RSNC). The Vice-Chancellor, who was the chief host and who declared the conference open, was represented by the Director of Business School, Prof. Okechukwu Onuchukwu. In his speech, Lale, said: “It is important for people, not only in academics, to update their knowledge through workshops and conferences. But we have seen that most of our colleagues do not take attendance of conferences and presentation of papers seriously. This is too bad. We ought to attend minimum of four conferences every year, to update our knowledge and allow other people to read what we have written and understand our views or perspectives. “Nigeria is practicing multi-party democracy and journalists reporting what is happening in politics are very important, especially to properly inform members of the public and to abide by the ethics of journalism. I wish to thank JEF for choosing UNIPORT as the venue of the conference.” Three personalities who have contributed to the success of the foundation, were honoured by JEF with awards of excellence, including a renowned scholar, Prof. Shirley Yul-Ifode, formerly of UNIPORT’s Department of Linguistics and Communication Studies, but now with the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN); a former Director, Corporate Affairs of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Dr. Ibitoye Abosede and a retired lecturer, Dr. Hyacinth Orlu-Orlu, a Catholic Priest. In his welcome address, the Convener of JEF, Dr. Aniefiok Udoudo said: “Although we promised when we were inaugurated as a chapel of the NUJ, Rivers State Council, on March 4, 2015 and re-echoed during our first conference on August 28, 2015 that this conference would be held yearly, we have found that it is more convenient to make the conference a biennial event. We, indeed, are committed to this. “Our goal has been to bring together our colleagues in the field to share experiences, but in a scholarly form, with those of us in the classroom. The conference will also make Nigerian journalists political unifiers in the midst of differences, through their reportage. “The unique feature of our conference is that both our Master’s and Ph.D students are encouraged to participate in the presentation of papers. This singular approach is to prepare our students for participation in conferences anywhere in the world. “Let me assure all participants that every paper presented at this conference will be published, if found publishable. “The 2017 conference theme: ‘Integrity in Reporting,’ was a call that journalism as a noble practice must be practised with integrity. That conference has produced Volume 3, Numbers 1 and 2 of Journal of Research and Media Practice and an edited book of 21 chapters, entitled Integrity in News Reporting: A Reader. The two books, which had undergone serious peer review, will be presented to this audience.” Udoudo also hailed UNIPORT’s Vice-Chancellor for graciously accepting to host the conference and the Dean of the Faculty of Humanities of the university, Prof. Femi Shaka, for all the supports he gave for the success of the event, especially for providing the venue of the conference free, among other eminent personalities in attendance. In his opening remarks, the Acting Head of Department of LCS, Dr. Baridisi Isaac, who is the host of the conference and workshop, stated that on July 6, 2017, he presented a welcome address at the opening ceremony of the maiden conference of JEF, while revealing that JEF, housed in the university’s LCS Department, was now registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), with the membership drawn from journalism training institutions across Nigeria. Isaac said: “The mission of JEF is to advance journalism practice in the country, through research and publications as well as training and retraining of reporters to enhance their professional competence. “Indeed, this conference could not have come at a better time than now, since Nigeria has just gone through a tumultuous election period, with Rivers State being the hotbed of the election intrigues. “The sub-themes for the conference cover all aspects of reporting and articulate ways in which reporters can hold the government, the political class and other players in the political arena accountable to the people, without necessarily heating up the polity.” He also praised officers of JEF in the department, whom he said worked determinedly to put together the world-class conference and workshop that would further deepen the intellectual culture for which LCS Department of the university is noted, thereby promoting the academic visibility of UNIPORT. The Dean of the Faculty of Humanities, Prof. Femi Shaka, in his remarks, stated that traditionally, the media were known to be the watchdog of the society, stressing that to be able to effectively play the watchdog role, practitioners must be professionally responsible. Shaka said: “Observing ethical standards is central to achieving integrity in any profession. However, in news reporting, news commercialisation, a relatively new concept in reporting, aimed at helping media houses to survive, has thrown up questions that seriously challenge the integrity of media professionals. The application of whistleblowing policy in investigative reporting has further compounded the over-burdened issue of integrity in reporting. “The primary responsibility or a reporter is to protect and promote his immediate environment. Since Nigeria, by all economic indices, is still a third world country that is largely rural, journalists practicing in this clime should be equipped with the skills to report rural news. “The media landscape has completely been upturned since the 80s by the advent of the new media. With power of the new media, there has been entrenched a new culture in reporting. Online journalism is the most visible medium of practice in this era. The principal feature of this practice is the abolition of gate-keeping in the process of news reporting.” The Dean, Faculty of Humanities also stated that the obvious throw-up from online journalism/new media was that credibility of news/sources and consequently integrity in news reporting now had serious question mark. Shaka stressed that very unfortunately also, was the fact that almost everybody had become captives on the online media, including persons who had been promoting fake news and hate speech. The keynote speaker, Prof. Sunny Udeze, of the Department of Mass Communication, Enugu State University of Science and Technology, Enugu in Enugu State, wondered why just two political parties (Peoples Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress) could be dominant in Nigeria, while the almost ninety other political parties could not make serious impact during the 2019 general elections. Udeze declared that media professionals must not allow politicians to use or manipulate them to cause confusion in the polity or unleash violence/mayhem, while strictly upholding the ethics of journalism, even as he added that journalists must not be partisan but should always give the electorate a voice. The lead paper presenter at the conference, Dr. Ben Nwanne of the Department of Mass Communication, Delta State University, Abraka, noted that it would be very difficult for people to run from politics, whether they voted during elections or not, since the actions/decisions of the elected officials would definitely affect them. Nwanne also stated that politics must not be a do-or-die affair, while urging journalists to always act professionally in the discharge of their duties. He insisted that elections in Nigeria must be credible, with press freedom to be ensured. During the workshop, the General Manager of Rivers State Newspaper Corporation (RSNC), Elder Vincent Ake, stated that many journalists were being harassed and killed in Nigeria, because some people had skeletons in their cupboards, which they would not like to be exposed by investigative journalists. He declared that the world would not be an interesting place without journalists, while pointing out that without reporters at the venues of events, it would indicate that the occasions had not taken place. Ake said: “Journalists have always been the weeping child. Journalists are the friendliest group of professionals and are very knowledgeable, hardworking and they are always nosing for news. Journalists make the world interesting, but they must, at all times, uphold the ethics of the profession. “Journalists are very important, but they must be persons of integrity. Journalists should not bring down the profession. Journalists must also make good use of their talents.” In his address, Chairman of Rivers NUJ, Stanley Job Stanley, stated that journalists must be protected from attacks. Stanley said: “World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1993, following the recommendations of United Nations Educational, Social and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) General Conference. Since then, May 3 every year has been marked and celebrated the world over as World Press Freedom Day. “The United Nations General Assembly’s declaration was to raise awareness on the importance of the freedom of the press and to remind government at all levels of their duties and to respect and uphold the right and freedom of expression, as enshrined in Article 19 of the 1948 Universal Declaration.” Rivers NUJ chairman also stated that all stakeholders must create enabling environments for journalists to perform their professional and social obligations at all times. The society will be a better place, if journalists are properly trained and retrained to objectively report politics in a multi-party system.