Hours to the epoch making inauguration ceremony to usher in incumbent Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto state for a second term of four years,  finishing touches to add glamour to the long awaited event have taken shape at the Kangiwa square, venue of the administration of oath of office. Explaining to The Nation on the preparation, Alhaji Ahmed Mohammed Gusau, one time deputy governor of the state and chairman, main transition committee said all sub-committees are on top of their roles for the success of the event which he stressed would be hitch free. He said the sub committees include among others; contact, ceremonial, publicity, logistics, venue, publicity and security. According to Gusau “The transition committee has 114 membership compositions.  We were appointed to pilot the affairs of the ceremony as well strengthen the entire process for the state to forge ahead. “There are two major sub- committees; technical/ security and ceremonial set to tidy up fundamental aspects related to issues of governance. We expect that the governor would sequentially implement our blue print so that Sokoto state will be great again.” Gusau added “We are also saddled with the task of advising on strategic approach to evolving responsive and efficient but beneficial knowledge that would project an insight for good governance in good light”, he stated. He said already the committee has tidied its comprehensive report for submission to the governor soonest. Meanwhile, despite the fasting period predominantly being observed in the caliphate by significant proportion of its population, supporters and well-wishers of the  ruling PDP in the state are set to witness the historic administration of oath of office on Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. A discussion on the swearing in has rented the air across nook and crannies within the metropolis even as the Government House, Sokoto had since morning remain a beehive of movements and activities by politicians. Already, Kangiwa square venue of the ceremony is wearing bright and attractive colours especially the grand stand. 