Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has refused to sign the controversial pension scheme for legislators into law. Correspondent MIKE ODIEGWU captures the views of protagonists and antagonists of the Bill. Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson may not sign the controversial pension bill passed by the state House of Assembly. Sources said the governor has witheld his assent to the anti-people bill, following the public odium it has generated. With the criticisms trailing the bill, it is obvious that the legislators farted in their hallowed chamber and the unpleasant smell evaporated into the global space compelling people to attack Bayelsa. But the governor in his wisdom decided to apply a deodorant by withholding his assent. Never in history of the state had a decision emanating from the House of Assembly generated such condemnation. The governor must have read the pulse of the people. Recently, a group, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), advised him against signing the bill. SERAP, in the letter by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oludare, described the action of the lawmakers as an abuse of office. Many stakeholders consider it self-serving, wicked and greedy for the 24-member House presided over by Speaker Kombowei Benson to have contemplated that bill in a state yearning for development. In fact, the passage of the life pension bill struck the people like a thunderbolt. The public had no idea that the bill was before the lawmakers until it was passed. It was gathered that the beneficiaries gave what many people had described as a draconian bill a speedy passage. Many social commentators believe that a state like Bayelsa with humongous developmental challenges, unemployment disaster, rise in criminality and infrastructural deficit should not be debating such bill. Even the civil liberty organisations wondered why such a bill was hastily passed without public hearing. A peep into a copy of the document titled, Pension Bill for Governors, Deputy Governors and Members of the State House of Assembly, revealed details of its provision. Based on the provisions, a speaker shall be entitled to monthly pension of N500,000; Deputy Speaker N300,000; House Leader and the Whip, N250,000; Deputy Leader N200,000 and other members N100,000. The bill, which was sponsored by the Leader of the House, Dr. Peter Akpe, specifically provided that former lawmakers, including persons of Bayelsa origin, who served in the old Rivers State House of Assembly, would enjoy life pensions as applicable to former presidents, vice-presidents, governors and deputy governors across the country. Before the bill, there was Bayelsa State Pensions for Governor and Deputy Governor Law 2003, which made provisions for governors and deputy governors’ pensions only. The current members simply repealed the old law, provided new legislation to include their pensions and enhance those of the governors and deputies. Section 10 of the new law says: “This law repeals the Bayelsa State Pensions for Governor and Deputy Governor Law”. In the new law a governor’s monthly allowance is valued at 8 per cent of his Annual Basic Salary (ABS); wardrobe allowance, 50 per cent of his ABS; entertainment, 40 per cent of his ABS; transport allowance, 50 per cent of ABS and utilities, 80 per cent of ABS. A deputy governor’s allowances are monthly basic, 8 per cent; wardrobe, 25 per cent of ABS; entertainment. 20 per cent, transport allowance 30 per cent and utilities 40 per cent. But where the governor and his deputy successfully served second term of eight years, they shall be entitled to 150 per cent of their ABS. A governor is also entitled to seven bedroom duplex and a three-room boys quarters in any location of his choice in the state. A deputy governor is entitled to one residential five bedroom duplex and a two-room boys quarters in any location of his choice in the state. While a governor is entitled to two cars and one backup car to be replaced every five years, a deputy governor shall have one Carr and one backup car to be replaced every five years. Also, the state shall maintain three drivers, a cook, a steward and a gardner, who shall be pensionable while the deputy shall have two drivers, a cook and a gardner. The governor is entitled to 60 per cent of ABS for vacation while the deputy has 40 per cent. Continue in page 2