The Management of Max Air Limited has explained that the recent reduction of its flight operations was due to mandatory maintenance checks. It also said it was due to its compliance with Civil Aviation Regulations (CARs) targeted at meeting passengers demand. In a chat with reporters, the Abuja Airport Station Manager, Mr. Kehinde Ogunyale revealed that the airline had in the last seven days operated with a single aircraft due to the checks. He also said that one of its aircraft was undergoing mandatory checks at Aero Hangar in Lagos and another on C-checks. Ogunyale said the checks made the airline to reduce its operations from seven to five destinations by excluding Port Harcourt and Sokoto routes as well as reduce frequencies to Lagos and Kano while combining operations to Yola and Maiduguri. He, however, noted that the aircraft on mandatory checks at Aero had been recertified by the regulatory authority adding that it resumed flight operations today (Monday). He said: “We were doing a one aircraft operations due to mandatory maintenance checks on our aircraft while another is on C-check. “During this period, we reduced our destinations from seven to five because we stopped flying to Sokoto and Port Harcourt and we were not selling tickets for those destinations. “We operated four sectors through a partner airline in order to reduce the pressure on that particular day. “Our passengers were briefed and we did some rescue operation with a partner airline. The aircraft has been recertified and released to service and we are back to full operations from Monday May 27.” On allegation that passengers were stranded for several hours, Ogunyale said that at no time were their passengers stranded on account of the airline. He said the challenges associated with delays were not caused by the reduction of the route but due to weather conditions and VIP movements. “There was a particular flight that passengers were sitting on the aircraft for close to two hours and I also remember three different times that we had to come back to base due to weather conditions. “One to kano, we couldn’t land because of weather and we had to come back here and wait for the weather to improve and while we were waiting for kano weather to improve, the weather caught up with us in Abuja and we had to wait for another one hour 30 minutes. “So there were things that we didn’t have control over like the weather issue and VIP movements.”