The race for Italy’s final two UEFA Champions League places gets closer to its peak this weekend from Sunday May 18 to Monday, May 20, as Inter Milan, Atalanta, AC Milan and Roma take to the pitch in matches that will be broadcast to GOtv subscribers. The matches involving the quartet, two of which will eventually experience heartbreak, are scheduled for broadcast exclusively on GOtv Plus and GOtv Max packages. Inter Milan are well placed to clinch third and final automatic ticket for Europe’s top club competition and will want to solidify their position when they travel to face Napoli. Last week, the Nerazzurri defeated Chievo Verona to maintain their position. Coach Luciano Spalleti will bank on Mauro Icardi, Ivan Perisic and other stars to deliver the goods. But Napoli, who have confirmed Champions League qualification, having placed second to champions, Juventus will seek to finish strong in what has turned out to be a disappointing season. The match will be live on Sunday May 19 at 7:30pm on SuperSport Select 5. Atalanta have mountain to climb when they travel to Turin to face Serie A champions, Juventus. Gian Piero Gasperini’s men secured a nervy win in their last game against Genoa and must get maximum points to be in control of their destiny. The Bergamo-based club, just hanging onto the final UCL spot by three points, will hope that star striker, Duvan Zapata, the league’s second highest goal scorer this season with 22 goals, can exploit the sudden vulnerability of the Old Lady defence. Despite overseeing a run of two draws and one defeat since clinching the title, manager Massimiliano Allegri, is expected to field a strong line up for the clash showing tomorrow at 2pm on SuperSport Select 2 and 5. AC Milan and Roma, both tied on 62 points in fifth and sixth places respectively, will hope to win their games while hoping a slip-up by Atalanta and possibly Inter Milan will enable them to move into Champions League places. Milan, led by their former star, Gennaro Gattuso, host already-relegated Frosinone, with the encounter showing tomorrow at 5pm on SuperSport Select 5. Roma face a tricky away encounter against 10th-placed Sassulo (showing today, May 18 at 7:30pm on SuperSport Select 5).