It gladdened my  heart when I heard that the Corps Marshal/Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety Commission has renewed the commitment of the Corps to commence the full implementation of the Penalty Point System effective from June 1, 2019. Equally commendable is the pronouncement that apprehended traffic offenders at a point, will be sent to Driving Schools for correctional training. This is the global practice and it is remarkable that Nigeria is now ready for its full implementation. There is, however, the need to put additional measures in place to accomplish the objectives. Firstly, there is the need for adequate public enlightenment on the types of traffic offences, points and penalties. The traffic offences were reviewed and gazetted in 2016 but as at today as the National President of Driving School Association of Nigeria , I can authoritatively say that over 80 percent of Driving School Proprietors and over 90 per cent of drivers are not yet aware of the reviewed traffic offences for which they could be held liable. Secondly, appropriate technology should be deployed to ensure that the points of traffic offenders are properly documented, accumulated and transmitted for appropriate actions without human manipulation. There should be a harmonisation of the activities of the activities of the Federal Road Safety Commission(FESC), The Nigeria Police, Vehicle Inspection Officers(VIOs) and the State Traffic Management Agencies to ensure the uniformity and gross accumulation of the points by traffic offenders apprehended by all the agencies anywhere and anytime, not FRSC records alone. Thirdly, FRSC should work out a system with the National Insurance Commission and the Nigeria Insurers Association to ensure that the penalty points of traffic offenders are also transmitted to the insurance companies. The insurance companies in turn should make the policy holders(Vehicle Owners and Drivers) pay higher premiums as high risk Clients. This measure will further discourage drivers from violating traffic offences. The employers of drivers will thereby take appropriate measures to ensure their drivers acquire the requisite knowledge, skills and safety consciousness. No matter how good a policy is, the commitment of the people implementing it determines the level of accomplishment. There is therefore the need for the FRSC COMACE and the heads of other Traffic Management Agencies to get their officers committed to the goal of apprehending all traffic offenders without fear or favour for sake of saving irreparable lives and valuable properties on Nigeria roads. The authorities should also take appropriate monitoring measures to ensure that bribery, favouritism and other forms of compromise does not turn the commendable pronouncement to another wishful thinking. Without any iota of doubt, uncompromised implementation of the penalty point system will greatly reduce the rate of traffic law violation and by extension, the rate of road traffic crashes and fatalities in Nigeria as it obtains in other countries with lower rates of road traffic crashes.