Providing passenger, ramp and ground handling services to airlines is difficult  because clients are reluctant to pay fully for their services, the Managing Director of Skyways Aviation Handling Company ( SAHCO) Plc , Mr Basil Agboarumi has said. He said ground handling operators were burdened by delayed payments for services to indigenous carriers. Besides reluctance to pay for services, Agboarumi said ground handlers were operating in an unfriendly business environment where aeronautical agencies subject them to multiple charges. In an interview in Lagos, he said though there are a few ground handling firms, competition remains rife as some debtor carriers switch from one firm to another. To boost the air transport sector, he said the government should grant waivers to ground handling firms for imported equipment and  spares. He said the business had become difficult because of the huge cost of clearing such high-profile equipment. Agboarumi listed other challenges confronting ground handlers to include huge costs of offshore training, and inadequate and obsolete airport facilities. He said ground business could not thrive where operators delay payments for services and where there is underpayment. Agboarumi said where ground handlers were subjected to multiple audit by international and local regulators, many businesses would suffer. He added that the prohibitive charges by aviation agencies do not reflect the value of their services. He accused the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) of parading inadequate infrastructure. Agboarumi said: “We have to pay through our noses most of the time. We pay a lot to be in business; everybody is collecting. I don’t want to go into controversy, but it becomes so bad that before you can even sneeze around the airport, you must pay; everybody is squeezing. That’s is a problem; that’s is a challenge.” He said ground handling firms, including SAHCO, were spending huge sums on overseas training of its personnel, a development that was putting huge strain on the company’s finances. Agboarumi urged the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to engage the International Air Transport Association (IATA) to consider domestication get some training courses as the global air transport regulator was becoming a monopoly. He said: “IATA is a monopoly; you either do it their own way or you don’t. In those days, I know they have various rates for developed and developing countries on training that need to be looked into and I think that the NCAA might need to take up this. We need the same training to give best services. There was a time you need to do the International Safety audit for Ground Operators (ISAGO). ‘’ISAGO was free, but today, you have to pay for it. You pay for everything and part of what they come to check has to do with training and so we must train and if you don’t, you are not in business, and you cannot say because you are a Nigerian company that you can just go and get training that are not certified by this same IATA. “Up till recently, IATA introduced what is called ISAGO, and one thing ISAGO was supposed to do was to rest the issue of multiple audits, as a ground handling; yes, once in a while they just come to our company. They look at our ISADO record. They say yes, because you are ISAGO. They say okay, but I think up till today, you still see multiple audits coming. What IATA is trying to do with ISAGO is not cheap for us to do and so anytime audit comes, you just have to do your best to ensure that you don’t fail them. It is a challenge in this part of the world.” Emphasising the place of safety, he said SAHCO will continue to work hard to train its ground and technical personnel. He said: ”For a safe flight to be achieved, the work begins and ends on the ground.Therefore, the importance of ground handling companies in the aviation sector cannot be overemphasised.’’ He noted that though the challenges were enormous, the handling firms work hard to ensure safety on the ground before it takes off a poorly handled aircraft on the ground is a danger in the sky.” Agboarumi, therefore, called on the government to consider tax reduction and waivers to ground handling firms as it extended to airlines. He said there was the need for FAAN to update airport facilities with the latest technology. He emphasised cooperation between ground handling firms and other airport stakeholders, stressing that cooperation was necessary for them to succeed. According to him, reduced training cost for developing countries would boost services, urging airlines on prompt payment of  levies and fees for handling services. He said: “I believe that aviation  is about cooperation, across the world, cooperation is the word and if we most have the aviation that we must have. There must be cooperation so also. There must be cooperation between ground handlers and other airport stakeholders. We must cooperate; it is our aviation. It is our own and we know what it should be. We should aspire to be better than the best and if we want to be counted among the best, then we most continue to cooperate. “Speed, efficiency and accuracy defines the operations of aviation ground handling.”