Former Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn has described Dangote Group’s investment in Africa’s oil refining sector as exceptional and enormous. He urged other private sector investors to take a cue from the group’s investment drive. Desalegn, who spoke during the tour of Dangote Jetty, Fertiliser and Refinery Plant, during the week, said Dangote Group President, Aliko Dangote, has enormous influence in the sector and his involvement in the general economic wellbeing of the whole of Africa is unquantifiable. He, therefore, encouraged other investors to consider the strategic nature of investments made by the conglomerate and emulate them in order to enhance the value of the continent’s economy. “I think this is a lesson for other African investors to take risk and bring about big change. A mega project of this magnitude actually needs dedication and commitment, as well as sacrifice,” he said. Desalegn insisted that Africa needs massive investment such as Dangote Refinery for economic development. According to him, investors in the continent must recognise that investment in essential sector would remain critical to sustainable economic growth. “I think this project is not only for Nigeria, but for the entire African countries,” he said. The Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Devakumar Edwin, said the project would provide 135,000 retail outlets, 26,716 filling stations and 129 depots in Nigeria, while the 2,600 trucks for transport will create additional jobs. He said another invaluable area of interest the project will enhance is in the area of skill development and capacity building for Nigerian. Already, Edwin said training of second batch of Nigerian engineers has started in Delhi, India. Edwin said: “We are sending all engineers abroad in batches. They will engage in classroom training for one month and on the job training of one year. They will be working with real time experts in the industry every day.” He said the company’s target was for a significant portion of Nigeria’s crude oil production to be refined domestically, rather than imported, thereby creating jobs within Nigeria, and bringing a halt to the current importation of refined petroleum products. Edwin said the refinery will provide over 100,000 indirect employments through retail outlets. He said the refinery was designed to meet Euro V grade, which is the highest standard in the world, hence products can be exported to any part of the world. “It will be well diversified and able to process Nigerian crude, African crude and crude from other parts of the world. In terms of evacuation routes, two crude oil single point mooring (SPM) buoys and three multi-product SPMs will be located within the Atlantic Ocean to transfer crude oil to a calling tanker,” he said. Edwin added that the company was also constructing the largest fertiliser plant in West Africa with the capacity to produce three million tonnes of urea per year. 