Authorities of the Akwa-Ibom State University has suspended indefinitely a student, Ms. Nkanang Joy Ufot, for calling the Vice-Chancellor ‘foolish’ on the social media. Ufot’s suspension was announced in a statement signed by the  Registrar, Mr John E Udo, on May 9. A day before she was suspended, Ufot, who is from the Department of Performing Arts, had made a post on Facebook on the increase in cult activities and insecurity on the campus. Her post read thus: “AKSU what is happening? A dry cleaners shop was robbed last night along college road….” Ufot’s post immediately caught fire, generating chains of reactions. Following her initial poser, another Facebook user commented, suggesting a protest. “No…. we don’t want to spoil the schools image…. foolish VC,” Ms Nkanang wrote on the social media site, in response to the call for protest. But management did not treat Ufot’s response with kid gloves. Less than 24 hours after the post, the management reacted, slamming her with suspension “The university has received a report that you, on your Facebook page, described the Vice-Chancellor of Akwa-Ibom State University, Prof. Eno J Ibanga as that”foolish VC” . “At the meeting of the principal officers with the Department of Students Affairs, Chief Security Officer, Ag. Head Department of Performing Arts and Student Union held on Monday, May 06, 2019, you admitted same before the officers of the university “ “In line with the university rules and regulations enshrined in the student information handbook, the vice-chancellor has directed that your studentship should be suspended indefinitely with effect from the date of this letter, for this act of gross misconduct which constitutes a breach of the matriculation oath. This suspension is pending the outcome of investigation by the Students Disciplinary Committee” “Also, the Dean of your faculty as well as the Head of Department have been duly informed to ensure strict compliance with this decision. The chief security officer is, by a copy of this letter, directed not to allow you entry into the university campuses during the period of your suspension, unless you are invited by the authorities of the university” Management’s reactions Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Mr Udo confirmed the indefinite suspension, saying the punishment is subject to further investigation and might lead to expulsion or rustication if found guilty. “You know what indefinite suspension means, that is if it is a final act of indiscipline it will lead to rustication or expulsion for a given number of semesters or expulsion from the university.” “When we say indefinite suspension, it is subject to investigation and recommendation by student disciplinary committee. So, that is pending.” All attempt to reach Ms Ufot as at the time of filling this report were futile.