The Principal of Somori Senior Comprehensive High School, from Education District 1, Lagos, Mrs. Akinbami Modupe Adebola  and Vice Principal, Oxbrigde Tutorial College, Mrs. Charity Tony-Ubah, have emerged winners of the Inspirational School Leader of the year award with cash award of N1,250,000 each.The award was  presented at the third edition of the Inspirational Educator Awards (INSEA) and Education Convention by Meadow Hall Foundation held  at Landmark Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Mr. Tajudeen Ayofe Amusan was the runner-up with a cash prize of N850,000.  A teacher from Jakande Comprehensive Senior College, Lagos, Mr. Soji Megbowon and a Science Teacher from Green Springs School, Mr. Lanre Abolaji Oguntoye, won the Inspirational Teacher of the year with the cash award of N850,000 while  Mr. Olusegun Michael Adeniyi, as the runner-up of the Inspirational Teacher of the year, won  N500,000. Mrs Adebola said that she emerged winner of  the inspirational School Leader because of her passion, dedication to duty and her continuous desire to improve learning outcomes among her students. She dedicated the award to the Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary of Education District 1, Dr. Olufolayimika Ayandele, who according to her motivated and inspired her to give her best. The Head of Meadow Hall Foundation,  Omotola Oni, said that in selecting the INSEA winners, the Meadow Hall Foundation put out a call for nominations for the Teacher of the Year and School Leader of the Year categories; nominees filled out a comprehensive form, detailing their qualifications, experience, inspirational stories, and personal initiatives carried out that stands them apart. She continued: “The shortlisted candidates from this stage were invited for an interview with carefully selected judges across various industries in order to determine the winners and runners-up”. Six inspirational educators emerged from the INSEA 2019. She explained that INSEA is a merit-based annual award aimed at elevating the teaching profession and motivating teachers and school leaders to continue to strive for excellence in their profession. The award is open to teachers in Nigeria who teach in public or private schools (primary or secondary) and participation is free. Earlier, CEO/Founder Meadow Hall Group and founder, Meadow Hall Foundation, Mrs. Kehinde Nwani, said: “The vision of MHF is to improve the educational outcomes of the Nigerian Child through enhancing teaching quality, changing mindsets about teaching and advocating for the teaching profession”. According to her, Meadow Hall Foundation has rewarded 13 inspirational teachers and school leaders with the sum of N13m million  from 2017 till date through the Inspirational Educator Awards (INSEA). Nwani said, “In today’s knowledge-driven economy, education plays a pivotal role in national development. Substantial investment in human capital is a key component of socio-economic development. Education enriches people’s understanding of themselves and world. She added “It improves the quality of their lives and leads to broad social benefits to individuals and society. Education raises people’s productivity and creativity and promotes entrepreneurship and technological advances. In addition, it plays a very crucial role in securing economic and social progress and improving income distribution. Studies show that no country has achieved constant economic development without considerable investment in human capital”. Keynote speaker, Registrar/Chief Executive, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN) Professor. Josiah O. Ajiboye, said “I am very glad Meadow Hall is also involved in education. It is very clear to me that Government alone cannot fund education. “Private participation in education is real and it has come to stay. The only thing you need is the rules and regulations to guide private participation”, he said. The TRCN boss explained further that education is an accepted veritable instrument for national development. Hence the saying that, “no society can develop beyond its educational system”. It is the product of education that transforms the society. Ajiboye pointed out that the level of investment in education determines the quality of gross national product of a country. He compared Finland, Malaysia, Botswana and Nigeria, which Nigeria was ranked lowest in terms of investment in education. According to Prof. Ajiboye,  “the quality of a nation depends upon the quality of its citizens, the quality of its citizens depends not exclusively but in a crucial measure upon the quality of education and the quality of education depends more than upon any single factor upon the quality of their teachers and the quality of the teacher depends mainly upon the quality of policy thrust guiding the operations of the teacher which is provided by professional regulatory authority such as TRCN controlling and providing benchmarks for standard of operations. “It is in this context that National development all over the world is viewed from the lens of education which is pivoted by accurate policy provided by professional authority in the field”.