Photography enthusiasts will not forget in a hurry this year’s edition of the Business of Photography. In search of more defining conversations meant to aid collaboration, growth, structure and investments, photographers sought to re-shape the country’s narrative to the world through their craft. The event, which had as theme “Shaping the narrative”, held at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. Expectedly, the convener, Kola Oshalusi gave the opening speech. According to Oshalusi, who is the lead photographer at Insigna Media Limited, this is the best time for the photo industry to shape the view and make money while doing its photography. He said in a world where there’s an unprecedented quest for visual stories, “the focus is on Africa and majorly Nigeria”, adding: “A lot more brands are coming on board the market place as vendors”. “If we fail to tell our story, someone else will. The conference sought to proffer solutions to the problems that photographers face in the course of carrying out their various activities. The idea is to give photographers more interactive opportunities with investors and policy makers. “Aside helping photographers get better at their craft, it is also aimed at converging, photographers, photography manufacturing and servicing companies and photography retailers together under one roof to discuss, learn, exhibit, sell and buy everything photography. ‘’This year’s edition focused on “Shaping the narrative”, had more activities, master classes and panel sessions manned by leading lights in the industry,” he added. Panelists took participants into the various aspects of photography, focusing on the business. The first session had Jite Ovuraye, (Associate Producer, Accelerate TV) as the moderator Reze Bonna (international fashion photographer). He was suportd by Bayo Omoboriowo (personal photographer to President Muhammadu Buhari) and Shola Animashaun, an award-winning wedding, fashion, travel and sport photographer. The session highlighted the impact of positive story telling on a brand or project. “Sellability of an image,” according to Bonna, “is beyond context and emotion reaction, time is your greatest asset”. Omoboriowo said: “In the Business of photography, beyond country or ones brief, integrity of one’s work should count more to a photographer. Keep shooting and saving, your work today is your pension tomorrow. Your art/passion is keeping money in the bag.’’ The second session, moderated by Tewa Onasanya, founder, Exquisite magazine, had TY Bello, creative director, TY Bello Photography, Ijeoma Balogun, founder of Redrick PR,  Chris Omojiade, life coach, Ayona Aguele Trimnell, CEO, Bantu Photos represented by Mr. Chima,  and Colette Otusheso (Head Accelerate TV) as panelists. It focused on branding and the role of Public Relations/marketing strategy in photography. The third session, moderated by Lehle Balde, Senior Associate, Business Day,  saw Charles Anyawu, Head, SME Enterprise, LSETF, representing Akintunde Oyebode, the CEO, LSETF), Chris Ifeanyi Oput, CEO Studio 24, Uzoma Dozie Group Managing Director(MD/CEO) Diamond Bank, discussing the financing of the industry as well as the role of the government in the subsector. Toyosi Etim- Effiong, TV Producer Arise TV,  the moderated the fourth session, which had Georgette Monnou , media and entertainment lawyer, Kelechi Amadi Obi, lawyer/international photographer, and Lucky Idike, CEO LOI Partners, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, SSA to the Vice President on Industry, Trade and Investment and George Okoro renowned wedding photographer/publisher, as panelists. Their discourse was on intellectual property and legislature in shaping the visual narrative. The final session moderated by Edwin Okolo, Head of Content, Red Africa, featured documentary photographers whose works redefined the industry. They were Adekanye Olusegun, Tolani Alli, Bernard Kalu, Tobi Balogun, commercial photographer and Obi Somto. There were also master classes on some aspects of photography manned by experts. These are architecture (Obi), Products (Rotilu), (Odukoya) and You tube (Keli Abel). Fade Ogunro, an On Air Personality, presented her brand. The event ended with networking as well as a private and public photography viewing by The White Space.