•Why did it take the Federal Govt 25 years to fulfill promise to Westerhof? Why did it take the Federal Government 25 years to fulfill its pledge to reward Clemens Westerhof, the former Technical Adviser of Nigeria’s senior national football team, the Super Eagles, with a house in Abuja?  This question cast a shadow on the May 27 presentation of house documents to Westerhof by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN). Fashola said the ceremony demonstrated that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration was “committed to putting right the wrongs of yesterday and redressing all forms of yesterday’s injustice.” Westerhof, a Dutch, was head coach of the Super Eagles team of 1994, tagged Golden Generation. The team qualified for Nigeria’s first-ever FIFA World Cup tournament in USA, and reached the second round. Also, the team won Nigeria’s second African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Tunisia in 1994. After the AFCON triumph, the then military head of state, Gen. Sani Abacha, had promised each member of the team a house in Abuja. Westerhof is credited with raising the standard of the national football team, and enhancing the respect it enjoyed among football playing nations. Under him, exciting soccer talents, including Jay-Jay Okocha, Sunday Oliseh, Nwankwo Kanu, Rashidi Yekini and Daniel Amokachi, developed and had successful careers with high-profile European clubs. It was a long wait before the Buhari administration finally redeemed the promise. In the lengthy interval, the Abacha dictatorship was distracted by its concentration on power, and the Abdulsalami Abubakar transitional military government was preoccupied with relinquishing power to a democratically elected civilian government. Even after the return to democracy, the housing promise to the Super Eagles remained just a promise. Three presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan, failed to fulfill the pledge. This contradicts the cliché, “government is a continuum.” Fashola, a football enthusiast, said: “Mr Westerhof ended our long–time search for a FIFA World Cup ticket and afterwards went on to lead the team to African Cup of Nations glory. As a nation, we made promises, but there was no follow-up…I was made aware that the promises had not been fulfilled through a letter by the assistant coach, Mr. Johannes Bonfrere, and we arranged for him to get his own in December 2017.” He added: “Six months later, at the FIFA World Cup in Russia, a prominent journalist, Mr Onochie Anibeze, brought it to my notice that the head coach, Mr Westerhof, was yet to receive his own house. We immediately initiated the process which has culminated in today’s event.” It is curious that the government had to be reminded of the unfulfilled housing pledges to Westerhof and Bonfrere. This suggests poor record-keeping, or inattention to records, particularly on the part of the sports ministry. Fashola’s request to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) concerning outstanding housing cases shows that the country’s sports administrators need to get their act together. “I want the NFF to document those members of the squad that have not received their houses in the FCT as promised and as soon as we receive this, we will respond positively,” Fashola said. The housing promise to the Super Eagles was meant to encourage not only the team, but also other Nigerian sportspeople. However, the narrative of extensive delay is discouraging. Westerhof, who flew into Nigeria from The Netherlands to receive the house documents, said:   “Nigeria is my second fatherland, and I am proud of what we were able to achieve with the players in those years. They were disciplined, dedicated and determined to lift Nigeria high, and we took Nigeria from 79th position to fifth in the world. I am thankful.” For Westerhof, it is better late than never. But the authorities should realise that a promise is a debt that should be paid sooner rather than later.