Gunmen suspected to be armed robbers in the early hours of Sunday invaded the residence of the Nasarawa State commissioner for higher education, Chief Clement Uhembe, and killed a 400 level student of the Federal University, Lafia, Terlumum Hemba. The incident was reported to have occurred at Kaduna Koro area, a suburb of Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, along the Lafia – Makurdi highway at about 1:00 am. Narrating the incident to Journalists in Lafia on Sunday, an eyewitness who simply identified himself as Daddy, said the gunmen arrived the Commissioner’s residence at about 1:00 am on Sunday with arms and terrorized the occupants leading to the shooting of the deceased 400 level micro-biology student to death. Daddy, who claimed that he was hiding in a vehicle parked within the Commissioner’s residence, narrated that the gunmen attacked the university student who they first came across and shot him at close range and chased him as he attempted to escape with gunshot wounds and used sticks and beat him till he bled to death in the compound. The eyewitness continued that the unknown gunmen also beat some of the occupants of the residence demanding the whereabout of the higher education commissioner who was said to have traveled with some members of his family to Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, for the wedding ceremony of his son. Our source further revealed that the other occupants who were left behind in the compound escaped into the bushes as the unknown gunmen had a field day using diggers and other tools and dug their way into the higher education commissioner’s living house. When speaking to journalists over the attack, the state higher education commissioner said: “The issue arose from the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Ihuman Ward which the party had never won since its existence hence it angered a lot of people. And since that APC victory, my life has been under threat from some individuals.” When contacted, the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Agyaragu division, Mr. Biam, confirmed the attack and said the corpse of the  deceased had been removed from the scene of the incident and deposited at the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital, Lafia as investigation into the incident has commenced. 