About 60 per cent of new restaurants die in their first year. Despite this, a South African business man has opened a thriving pizza restaurant in Lagos, DANIEL ESSIET reports. chief Executive Officer of South African-based Marathon Restaurant Group Africa and owner of Pizza Hut in Nigeria, Tony Ozanne, loves pizza. His desire for more Nigerians to get quick, affordable, tasty and healthy food brought him to Nigeria. Finding a gap in the pizza market, he opened a restaurant – Pizza Hut –  in Lagos. Ozanne worked in many restaurants in before he started his own venture in his country. The success of his restaurant in South Africa provided a boost for his venture in Nigeria. The pizza business has grown such that it offers online and a grab-and-go services, in addition to outdoor catering. According to him, to achieve success in the restaurant business requires hard work, good products and partnership with good local vendors and suppliers. Ozanne advised foreign investors to partner with locals if they want to succeed. Not having local partners, he said, makes it difficult for them as the locals understand the bureaucracy and logistics needed for the business. He aims to partner farmers to further grow the business and ensure that he gets good quality products. To Ozanne, quality and service are everything in the busines. He said  product offering and price must be comparable and competitive among online and offline suppliers to succeed in the business. Foods, he said, must be supplied at temperatures safe for consumption. He stressed that building one’s  brand is the most critical aspect of success, and that word-of-mouth is the best form of advertising. Ozanne said Pizza Hut has recorded successes in Botswana, Nigeria and South Africa. He said there was high demand for healthy foods in Nigeria, and that his company was partnering Jumia Food on how to use innovation to meet demands. According to him, Nigerians  trust e-commerce channels such that they don’t think twice about ordering anything online, including foods. Ozanne stated that it was vital to ensure that highest standards are met while preparing the pizzas to ensure consumers’ safety. Marathon Restaurant Group has outlets in Nigeria, Botswana and South Africa. It is building fast-casual restaurants and supporting food supply chains across the continent. He said before he came to Nigeria, he  identified key players in the market and picked Jumia’s food marketplace for partnership. He said: “Jumia’s Food marketplace has the platform and the customers. We felt that since we are new in Nigeria, we can ride on their back to get the traction we want. “From today, you can either walk into our three locations in Lagos (Ikoyi, Ikeja City Mall and Lekki) to buy pizza or take the convenient steps by ordering on Jumia’s Food marketplace.” On expansion plans, Ozanne said: “In the next five years, we are looking at extending our footprints to Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ibadan and, of course, open more outlets in Lagos.’’ Jumia’s Food Marketplace Managing Director Guy Futi announced a delivery partnership between his firm and Pizza Hut. Futi explained: “As the premier food delivery business in Nigeria, we are opening our platform to enable our customers to order from Pizza Hut while ensuring that it is delivered at record time. “Currently, our average delivery time is less than 45 minutes, which is the quickest in Nigeria. We are reinforcing our operations to cut our average delivery time to guarantee that food and pizza are delivered at best times to our customers while not compromising quality.” Futi said Nigerians spends about N6 billion daily on food, adding that studies have shown that one Nigerian spends about N500 daily on food. He said his organisation was ready to work with food vendors to use its e-platform to boost the distribution of foods. 