Apprehensive of the present spate of insecurity in Southwest states, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged the leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to impress it on President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to safeguard lives of people in the region.

The opposition party noted that even though, the presidential election is still being contested in the tribunal, it is important to declare that Nigerians look into the possible new tenure of four years with fear and trepidation.

A statement by PDP Zonal Spokesman, Ayo Fadaka, said insecurity across the length and breath of the nation particularly in Yoruba land continued  to grow in alarming proportions with no sign that the President is prepared to bail the nation herdsmene orgies of violence, war, destruction and needless deaths.

PDP said “it is unfortunate to state that the South West is today under the siege of Fulani terrorists or herdsmen who perpetrate criminal actions daily in the most unfettered manner. 

“In our region, kidnapping, assault and rape by these marauders remains unchecked, this lethargy has even emboldened them to even attack a traditional ruler in his palace, without repercussions, thus egregiously making a bold statement that we the Yorubas have become their captives.

“This we condemn outrightly as a direct assault, insult and desecration of our corporate heritage as Yoruba people.
Much as we know that we cannot use the activities of these criminals to judge the entire Fulani people, many of whom are accomplished and responsible leaders in our Party and nation. Read also: Monarch proffers solution to farmers/herdsmen clash

“We however restate that the average Yoruba man is now compelled to believe that  plans remain afoot to conquer and subdue us in our fatherland.

“This belief is further reinforced by the fact Government’s security agencies directly under the control of Mr President has so far done almost nothing to challenge and outrightly put a stop to these insidiously dangerous actions of the so called herdsmen’

“President Buhari must as a matter of fact know that Yoruba peoples’ confidence in his ability to make peace reign in our nation continues to sink everyday and the danger in this is that  resort to self help may soon become the order of the day, unless he takes concrete security/military actions in the South West immediately’.

The statement urged Buhari to immediately order the Security agencies to flush these criminals out of the South West immediately to give Yorubas a sigh of relieve and discard the suspicion that ethnic cleansing is about to be prosecuted in the country. 

Besides, PDP also condemned the Governors of the South West, particularly those of Ekiti, Osun, Ondo and Oyo for not doing enough to safeguard their people. 

It said “roads across these States have become the theater of operation of these hoodlums and they seem to stand by helplessly and watch, thereby making us to query what indeed they spend the humongous sum they take as security vote on. 

“When we recall that this same Ekiti that is the Fulani terrorists/ herdsmen main operational theatre was bereft of developments of this nature under ex-Governor Ayo Fayose, it calls to question the commitment of all our Governors to keep our region safe.

” It is in Ondo State that an Oba’s palace was violently invaded by herdsmen and all the Governor did is an appeasement of the hoodlums, this is disappointing. 
It is now becoming a common occurrence for these hoodlums to enter houses and pluck people like oranges. 

The statement also called on Yoruba leaders to immediately shun partisanship and convoke a meeting where the issues of security will be wholly addressed without delay,stressing that “we have not suffered this type of invasion since the betrayal of Afonja”.

It also implored Yoruba monarchs to eschew undue rivalry within their ranks, close gaps and design models 
of traditional response  in their various domain, and in the the entire region.