A former domestic staff, Monday Odey, who fled after hitting his colleague to death in Magodo, Lagos Mainland has been arrested, the police said Saturday. Odey was arrested one month after killing Abdullahi Yinusa with a shovel  for reporting his stealing habit to their employer. The Nation had reported the incident which occurred on April 5, at 16, Tunde Obitayo Street, Magodo Phase  Two, after the police declared Odey wanted. It was gathered that Odey’s stealing habit led to his sack but he blamed Yinusa for his disengagement. Confirming his arrest in a statement on Saturday, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said the murder was reported at the police by one Bola Ikupoluyi on the day it occurred. “Ikupoluyi reported that at about 7pm, one Monday Odey hit one Abdullahi Yinusa with a shovel on the head and face which led to his death. That the suspect absconded to unknown destination immediately after committing the offence. “Both the suspect and the deceased person were security guards working at the residence of the complainant. Investigation revealed that the suspect has been accused of stealing valuable items belonging to the complainant such as clothes, bicycles, among others. “On April 4, the suspect was confronted  over his incessant stealing habit, by the deceased person and the suspect picked offence and threatened to kill the said Abdullahi Yinusa for challenging him. The complainant, being their employer responded by sacking the suspect and ordered him to vacate the premises immediately. “Angered by his sack, the suspect returned to the house the same day at about 7pm under the guise of taking his personal belongings, gained access to the premises and murdered the said Abdullahi Yinusa. After killing the deceased person, the suspect dumped the corpse at a canal behind their master’s house and absconded. “The Commissioner of Police Lagos State tasked the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti to ensure that no stone was left unturned in tracking the location of the fugitive suspect and bring him to justice. “Following a thorough and painstaking investigation by homicide detectives from the SCIID, the suspect was traced to Iwo, Osun State and apprehended  on May 2. He has confessed to the commission of the crime. The suspect will be charged to court for murder,” said Elkana.