Lagos State Ministry of Health Director of Pharmaceutical Services, Dr. Moyosore Adejumo, has said malaria is responsible for more than 70 per cent of the outpatient attendance in the state public health facilities with more than 400,000 cases reported annually. Breaking the figures further, she said there are more reported cases of malaria in children under five years and in pregnant women where the infection can be very serious due to the very vulnerable nature of these two segments of the population. Dr. Adejumo said this while speaking at the Association of Hospital and Administrative Pharmacists of Nigeria (AHAPN) 2019 World Malaria Day celebration at Bariga Local Government Hall, Bariga, with the theme: “Zero malaria starts with me.” She stressed that the theme is apt at this time in view of the collective responsibilities of all stakeholders, including the governments at all levels, professional bodies, healthcare workers at all levels, civil society organisations, communities, corporate organisations  and even individuals to reduce the scourge of malaria. While explaining that the topography and ecologic features of the state, the abundant coastal features, rapid urbanisation and poor drainage are some of the major factors that contribute to the all-year transmission of malaria, she said over the years, the state government has demonstrated continued commitment to the control of malaria. On his part, AHAPN National Chairman, Dr. Kingsley Chiedu Amibo, said this year’s celebration is a collaboration between the national body and the state branch of AHAPN. Speaking on the topic: “Continued relevance of Artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACTs) in the treatment of malaria”, he said in order to prevent progression of uncomplicated malaria to severe disease or death and prevent chronic infection leading to anaemia, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has since recommended ACTs as the first line of treatment of malaria globally. He, however, added that recent reports tend to suggest patients relapse after treatment with this group of medicines. Dr. Amibo said there are five ACTs available for use against plasmodium falciparum malaria, adding that the choice of ACT should be based on results of therapeutic efficacy studies against local strains of plasmodium falciparum malaria. He listed the ACTs recommended by WHO to include, Artemether-lumefantrine (AL), Artesunate-amodiaquine (AS-AQ), Artesunate-mefloquine (AS-MQ), Artesunate–sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS-SP) and Dihydroartemisinine-piperaquin (DHA-PQP). Despite reported cases of relapse after use, Dr. Amibo insisted, ACTs remain the mainstay of treatment for plasmodium falciparum since there are no alternatives to artemisinin derivatives for now. He cautioned Nigerians to not take multivitamins containing vitamin C with the ACTs as they render them less effective if taken together. “A Nigerian study involving 80 malaria infected adult patients showed that co-administration of orange juice, grapefruit juice or vitamin C concomitantly with artesunate or amodiaquine severely diminished the efficacy and potency of the drugs,” he said.