Supporters of the Rivers State All Progressives Congress (APC), Minister of Transport Rotimi Amaechi and Senator Magnus Abe have resumed their hostilities. Amaechi’s associate, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze has alleged plans by Abe to eliminate him. The senator said the allegation was a figment of imagination. But, Eze is adamant, saying that Abe is a supporter of the governor. Governor Nyesom Wike, on collecting his certificate of return after the controversial elections that returned him to power, offered an olive branch to his many political traducers. In a statewide broadcast, following the announcement of the governorship election result, Wike said: “I therefore appeal to the APC and the Minister of Transportation to join hands with us to move our dear State forward. We cannot as leaders continue to remain divided and expect Government to deliver on its responsibilities to our people. “Let us from henceforth seek the common ground instead of allowing our differences to be exploited to retard our march to progress. I appeal to our people to eschew all acts of acrimony, criminality, unrest, and violence throughout the state.” The minister of transportation and leader of the All Progressives Congress, APC in the state, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi was to reiterate that point in his Easter message when he called on those who lost during the recent elections not to give up hope. He said: “I appeal to all who truly love our dear Rivers State to join hands in building the state, irrespective of their party affiliations. “No amount of provocation or even threats should challenge the Rivers spirit of oneness, unity and harmony in you. “To the youths, I urge you not to see crime as an escape route from the difficult times we are going through in Rivers State today. I am confident that with resilience and prayer, you can always pull through.” However, amid the reconciliation Eze, punctured the serenity with his petition of an alleged assassination against him. Eze, who is Amaechi’s alter ego, blamed Abe, who he said was working in cahoots with Wike against Amaechi. Eze alleged a collaboration between Abe and Wike, saying both of them worked to frustrate Amaechi and the  APC in its bid to field candidates in the recent general elections. Abe was at the head of the dissenting group within the Rivers State APC that stopped the mainstream from presenting candidates. It was a development that was heartily welcomed by Wike and the PDP. Eze said: “Senator Magnus Abe has been angry that I exposed how he teamed up with elements within and outside Rivers State to ensure that APC in Rivers state did not field a candidate in the just concluded general elections and how he has ceaselessly castigated and impugned the personality of Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, the immediate past Governor of Rivers state and the incumbent Minster of Transportation. Claiming that Abe has a grouse with Eze on account of his close affinity with Amaechi and President Muhammadu Buhari, he said: “This is the same man who happened to be his benefactor and mentor. I have been severally threatened by the Senator and his boys over my defense of the Minster and my exposing their plots against him by teaming up with PDP elements within and outside Rivers State to promote the candidates of PDP in the last elections including even the presidential ambition of Atiku Abubakar all because of a desperate hope of making Atiku’s ministerial cabinet.”     