Stakeholders under the aegis of Sylva Sure Deal (SSD) have called on former Governor Timipre Sylva to contest the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 2 governorship election in Bayelsa State. The Chairman of SSD, Dallas Ebibi and the group’s Secretary, George Izibenadu, said Sylva as the leader of APC in Bayelsa had remained faithful to the party. Describing Sylva as a worthy shepherd, the group said Sylva had public appeal across party lines following his detribalised leadership style. The statement said it would be unfair for any APC member to doubt the capacity of Sylva flying the flag of the party, insisting that a competitive gubernatorial contest required a candidate with public exposure and general acceptance. The group said it recognised and respected the rights of others to vie for the party’s ticket but it would be delusional for APC members to think that any candidate of the party would win the forthcoming election. The statement said: “The charitable Bayelsans are witness bearers to the public felicity that was inspired by the development-oriented governance of Chief Sylva. This is the reason public opinion has called on him to contest the 2019 guber poll for Bayelsans to experience a glorious rebirth. “Sylva’s achievements are visible and tangible for all. The trajectory of his past to his present shows he is fated to better the lots of Bayelsa State if given another chance to govern. “We are appealing and calling on all faithful and patriotic party leaders and members to unite with Chief Timipre Sylva towards attaining victory in the general elections and not to be used as objects of coercion in an attempt to pander to the dictates of external intruders”. The SSD noted that it’s call on Sylva to contest the APC primary was predicated on his achievements during his tenure as the governor of Bayelsa. It mentioned some of the projects as the Nigerian Law School, Yenagoa Campus, 52 internal roads, Diete Koki Memorial Hospital, new commissioner’s quarters, new House of Assembly Quarter, Ekeki Housing Estate, Annual Payment of Bursary and Award of Foreign Scholarships. “It is, therefore, safe to conclude that, Chief Sylva possesses the needed political and administrative deft to reposition Bayelsa State in the path of prosperity”.