The N23.7 billion severance package for National Assembly legislators included in this year’s Appropriation Bill by the Senate has drawn the ire of the Nigerian public. They described the legislators’ action as selfish and insensitive to the economic situation in the country. Afenifere leader Senator Ayo Fasanmi said the severance package is self-serving and scandalous. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to look at the issue critically before taking a decision on it. Fasanmi said: “As someone who has served as a member of the House of Representatives in the First Republic and as senator in the Second Republic, to me, the approval of severance package for members of the National Assembly is self-serving and very scandalous. I want Mr President to look at the issue very critically as a foremost crusader against corruption in our public life before taking a decision on the expenditure.” Prof Ayo Olukotun of the Department of Political Science at Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, said the severance package was part of the excesses of the members of the National Assembly. The political scientist said this had not been curtailed over the years. He said: “It is the politics of disorder with no one prepared to call them to order. The principle may be justified but it has been stretched beyond rationality.” To the Lagos State Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Joe Igbokwe, the Executive should ignore the severance package approved by the legislators for themselves in the Appropriation Bill. He described the lawmakers as selfish and greedy. Igbokwe said President Buhari should not release the money. “It should not be our priority. Members of the Eighth National Assembly should go; we are tired of them. Let us deal with the new Assembly. “Given the jumbo salaries and allowances drawn by the members of the National Assembly and the state of the economy, the severance package should be expunged from the budget. They have had more than enough. “The N23.7 billion can be used for the construction and rehabilitation of many roads in the country. The incoming legislators should know it will no longer business as usual. We want to build this country on the part of moral integrity,” he said.