AMID jubilation at four emirates, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje yesterday presented the new First Class Emirs with the Staff of Office. The presentation of the Instrument of office began with the Emir Aminu Ado Bayero, one of the eldest sons of the late Emir of Kano, Ado Bayero. He got the Staff of Office as the Emir of Bichi Emirate Council. Ganduje proceeded to the Karaye Emirate Council to present the Staff to Alhaji  Ibrahim Abubakar II, after which  Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Ila got the instrument as the Emir of Rano and Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir as Emir of Gaya. The governor and his large entourage were welcomed by tumultuous crowds to each of the districts. The excited residents showered encomiums on the governor for upgrading their monarchs. After the presentations, he congratulated them urging them to always abide by what the Staff of Office symbolically represents. The governor said: “This Staff of Office represents dedication and commitment to serve your subjects in the areas of security, health care delivery system, education and environment among others. We, as a government, are always ready to work with you hand in hand for the growth and development of our state in particular and the nation in general.” Urging them to always take the welfare of their people as major concerns, the governor said: “You should place greater priority on education, health and the security of your domains. The government would always respond positively to your people-oriented yearnings and aspirations.” Ganduje urged the emirs to strive hard in the area of security, emphasising that, “as leaders who are closer to your subjects, you should join hand with government and other security agencies to make sure that, security is not only improved, but maintained. “Efforts towards strengthening community policing, as practice globally, should form part of your commitment. Ours is to, together, ensure that global best practices are observed. “New security strategy should be looked at. That is why I am calling on our Emirs to always consider workable and viable synergy with all the stakeholders in your domains, with the singular reason of making our societies safer. “Security is on the shoulders of all of us. Government alone cannot tackle the issue of security. And traditional institution plays vital role in this area.” All the emirs assured Ganduje of their support in his bid to develop the state, assuring him that, all the areas he highlighted would be given special consideration, for the overall development of the state. They promised to convene regular meetings of stakeholders in their domains to make would the discharge of their responsibilities stress-free. The emirs promised also to give special and priority attention to the education for-all, particularly the girl child.