The solicitor for Akinole Oshiun family, Mr. Bolanle Opadokun, has said his client has every legal backing on the disputed Agidingbi land. In a statement in Lagos yesterday, Opadokun said a judgment from the Lagos State High Court, backed by the Supreme Court, affirmed that the Oshiun family was favoured over the land. He said: “We continue to act as solicitor to the Akinole Oshiun family and we have their instruction to respond to your offensive letter of May 2, 2019 in respect of the above subject. “We have our client’s instruction to state emphatically that the contents of your said letter are untrue and a figment of your client’s imagination. It is, therefore, not a surprise to us that you have not substantiated the spurious claims of your client with any document whatsoever. “Our clients have so much agreement with the Ashamu family, who are notorious land grabbers, over the land in question and any document portraying such is clearly a fabrication, which cannot stand up in a court of law. Furthermore, the roots of the title of the various occupants of the said parcel of land, who have approached us for ratification, have no bearing with Ashamu family in any manner whatsoever. “Our clients, therefore, remain convinced that any court judgment or document that purportedly confer any title on Ashamu in Agidingbi are mere fabrications. In addition to the foregoing, the Ashamu family from whom the predecessors of your client obtained their purported title had been adjudged to be slaves and caretakers of the Akinole Oshiun family by several decisions of the superior courts in Nigeria. “For example, see the judgment of the High Court of Lagos State delivered by Hon. Justice Desalu on July 5, 1991 in suit No. ID/15/78. Your clients, therefore, have no title they can claim against our client. “In any event, we have a judgment of the Lagos State High Court that has been tested all the way to the Supreme Court and we remain determined to execute the said judgment to the letter. If your client has any reasonable and sustainable claims against our client over the said parcel of land, you know what to do. “Your clients are, therefore, warned to desist from misleading the public or carrying out any illegal action to disrupt the lawful execution of the judgment of the court, as we shall not hesitate to throw the full weight of the law against your clients, including but not limited to holding them in contempt of court.”