Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has a unique personality. He does not smoke and he does not consume alcohol. The governor, beyond politics, is, however, a great farmer. He has passion and unusual energy for agriculture. A visit to Dickson’s farm at Toru-Orua, Sagbama Local Government Area, reveals the governor’s love for growing food. His farm has become a tourist haven. High-profile individuals, government appointees, persons occupying elective positions, musical icons, comedians and social media experts have been trooping into Seriake Dickson’s farm in Toru-Orua. For those who don’t know Toru Orua before Dickson’s emergence as a governor, it used to be a rural settlement. It had no road, no electricity and in fact no modernity. It was a village of thatched and mud houses. It was only accessible by boats through the River Forcados, which surrounds the community. It was so isolated that nobody reckoned with it. But things have changed rapidly. Charity begins at home. So Dickson single-handedly transformed a raw village into a notable city. Toru-Orua is rocking shoulders with Yenagoa in terms of development. Thatched and mud houses have given way to high-rise buildings, beautiful duplexes and shinning bungalows. Toru-Orua has electricity, banks, a university, police station and bases of military formations. A road now leads to the city. Many tarred roads also divide the town into streets. Dickson’s farm has added to the beauty of Toru-Orua. The governor is a great host. He devotes time to conduct his visitors round the farm. It is a ritual with social protocol; what the governor chooses to call induction. A visitor goes round the farm with the governor, beholds sections of the farm such as the plantain plantation, crop section, pineapple plantation and areas mapped out for aquaculture and poultry. The real induction begins at the massive sugarcane plantation. Here, a visitor is given a cutlass to harvest sugarcane stem of his choice. “The longer the stem, the higher your blessings”, Dickson says jokingly. So, a visitor tries to harvest the highest sugarcane stem he can lay his hands on. The tourist prepares the stem, cuts off a plantable part and plants the leafy part of the stem in a designated area. He poses for a picture with the governor. Then the real enjoyment begins when he chews the sugary juice as he discusses with the governor. The reception makes a visit to Dickson’s farm a huge fun. How did the governor develop love for farming? “It It started right in this community”, the governor says. “I farmed with my parents. As a matter of fact, part of this area is owned by my father. My father brought me here and set up my first farm around where my house now stands. This was my first farm in 1984, 1985. “My father had a large banana plantation around this same area and when I decided to build a house, a proper compound, I rejected my father’s offer to take his land which we have given to the university. I told him I wanted to build near the river, I started acquiring this place when  I was in the House of Representatives and it kept expanding until the way it is.” Dickson has been investing in farm years before he became a governor. Speaking about some of his farmland, he says: “The farm here is about 25 to 30 hectares. It is not too big but I intend to make full use of it. You can see the large fish pond under construction. There  will be a poultry here. There will be a piggery here and a ranch for cattle. The one in Yenagoa, Yenegwe,  I have about 30 hectares too. I have always had that from the early twenties, 2001, 2002. My farm in Abuja is about a 100 hectares.” Speaking specifically on fish farming, Dickson said: “My fish farms are very large. I have the largest fish farm in the state, hundreds of thousands of fingerlings and matured fish. We are constructing the preservation systems. We want to be able to preserve them for long to sell and package because there are thousands of big fish of all kinds in my pond. The ponds are like lakes”. Like most Ijaw farmers, Dickson likes growing plantain. When asked his favorite crops and plants, he says: “As an ijaw man, our first is plantain. We have planted a lot of plantain and we have produced many dozens of plantain needed for sale, even in my farm in Yenagoa, we sell every market day. “So, we have been producing and selling, we have banana, mango, pineapples, oranges and so on. But my main focus is going to be aquaculture, poultry, piggery, cattle; I am a herdsman; an  ijaw herdsman who does cattle rearing in a confined environment, ranching and that’s what we recommend to everybody.” In fact, the governor desires to return to farming after the expiration of his tenure on February 14, 2020. Speaking further about his Toru-Orua farm and his future plans, he says: “I started this farm a long time ago. I haven’t really had time to prepare it and am getting ready to do so. When I finish I will be into full time farming. “Let me underscore the importance of investing in agriculture. First to be able to provide what we eat and secondly to be able to create jobs and create wealth and each of us no matter how highly placed should be in a position to add to the investment in agriculture and sometimes it doesn’t take too much. You can all go to your communities acquire one hectare, two hectares and plant something. “Luckily our country is so well endowed that in every part, we can at least plant one crop or the other. So, for me agriculture is very paramount if we are serious about creating sustainable economy and if we are serious about creating jobs. By so doing we provide food sufficiency for ourselves. “In this farm I plant almost everything, for the past two ,three years we have actually been harvesting a lot of banana, a lot of plantain, a lot of cucumber, a lot of pineapples everything here and you have all joined me to harvest sugarcane and I have just formally inducted you all into my farm for which am grateful.So this is to encourage you all to tell the story of agriculture.” The governor advises the youths to change their mindsets of viewing agriculture as old people’s occupation. “That’s the mindset we have to change. Part of what I intend to do is to apply for , have already started talking with some  banks to help me raise a facility base on the security of my titles to enable me make all these investments as I get ready to leave office. ”I intend to stay here in my community and my farm  in Yenagoa so that I can make most of these investments to create jobs and also make profit. Farming is very profitable. We cannot meet our needs for pigs and eggs in this state and even other poultry products. We import everything. Everything is brought into Bayelsa. So, farming is a good thing to go into and those, who have gone into it have no regrets.” But the governor does not intend to concentrate only on farming after leaving office. “Age is still on my side and I have a lot of passion. Writing is one and teaching is another. I will likely go back back to school. I will like to involved in teaching; carrying out research on studies about my deep experiences in governors,” he says. The countryman governor appeals to youths to embrace agriculture and stop the habit of relying solely on government for survival. He implores youngsters to take responsibility for their lives and future. Dickson added: “That is the tragedy of an under-developed deprived environment like Bayelsa where everybody thinks that survival must come from government. They don’t know that first of all, they have to take responsibility for their lives and their future. We have made a lot of investment in agriculture  to make the involvement easier. “Look at the aquaculture  village in Yenagoa and the several others that we are doing outside Yenagoa. Right now we have capacity of 1500 to 2000 young fishermen that should be under training and they are  also making some money in the process. “If you go to Ebedebiri where the government poultry with about 35,000 bird capacity is located. There is currently a programme to see how young people can go there and learn. Although I have said that the University of Africa should take it over, there is another fish farm, two big fish farms, one coming up in Angalabiri constructed by the izonist another close to Yenagoa I think famgbe area. “Our biggest  investment is the cassava starch processing factory, which is the largest not just in Nigeria but the largest cassava processing factory in Africa. It is built by the Dutch and they are rounding off and they will be here to run it up for two years. There is a lot of money in it. “We need all the starch that is produced in Bayelsa and in the entire South-South to service that factory. It will be commissioned in the next two, three months. They have already finished installation and they are just putting finishing touches to it. “In the end, agriculture is in the hands of everybody, like am demonstrating, we have  directed all appointees, commissioners and others to set up farm and they are doing very well.” On his disciplined lifestyle, Dickson said: “l have never smoked. I don’t like taking alcohol and I don’t recommend that. At the end, our strength comes from God. I live a simple life dedicated to the service of our people. I am a man of faith, who also believes that God has a hand in what we do and what we accomplish and how we live our life. So, I relax a lot.”