Popular cleric in Edo State, Prophet Emeka Onu, founder of the Land of Solution Prophetic Mission İnternational, has denied sending assassins to kill Pastor Isaac Abraham of the Building Faith Prophetic and Deliverance Ministry. A viral video had shown one Oseni Ogbiti who was tied down confessing that Prophet Onu sent him to kill Pastor Abraham. But Prophet Onu who spoke to newsmen in Jattu, Estako West local government described the allegation as a tissue of lie and a calculated attempt to bring down his growing ministry. Prophet Onu admitted that Ogbite is a member of his church but denied sending him to kill Pastor Abraham. Onu said he was still in shock that his image has been dented. He said his mission is to win souls for the kingdom of God and not to kill other people or destroy lives. His words, “How can I send assassins to somebody I can handle personally? I was not contacted to state my side before the news went viral and in social media. “Of what I saw on the video, the man mentioned my name to save his life. In the video, I saw him said a lot of things that did not make sense, he spoke under duress because he was almost been nailed in the head. “I do not know Abraham nor do we have anything to fight over; what is probably happening is an attempt to tarnish my image, it was a set up. “I personally went to see the police on the matter without any invitation, to lodge complain on it because I must see to the end of this matter. Ogbite, who confessed in the video that Onu sent him to assassinate Abraham, denied going there to kill anybody. He said he only went to see Abraham to tell him to stop denigrating Prophet Onu. Ogbite stated that he mentioned Prophet Onu’s name when the mob wanted to kill him even though he went there with a soldier friend who is also a member of the church. According to him, “When I told my friend that I was going to warn Abraham for running down my prophet at every giving opportunity, my friend said it will not be right for me to go alone, that he will go with me. “When we got to the church and asked to see the pastor, we were told by his Personal Assistant that he was not around. I actually started to explain our mission to see him when my friend said I should allow him to do the talking. “It was after I told them about my mission they started beating me. They tied me up with a rope and forced me to drink urine. They attempted to knock a nail into my skull. I was under duress when I mentioned the name of Apostle Emeka to save my life.”