Telecoms giant  MTN Group Limited yesterday in Johannesburg,South Africa,announced the appointment of   the Emir of Kano, Mallam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, into its board. The appointment of the former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor is part of significant changes to MTN board, including that of  Mcebisi Jonas as Chairman. Mcebisi Jonas is a former Deputy Finance Minister of the Government of South Africa who served from 2014 to 2016. The group also established an International Advisory Board (IAB). It said: “ The MTN Group Board is of the view that MTN has entered a more stable and settled period which enables it to now effect an evolution of the board following recent challenging regulatory environments and competitive trading conditions. “MTN Group wishes to announce the following changes to the board over the next 12 months: *The Chairman of MTN Group, Phuthuma Nhleko, who was anticipated to step down from his position at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2019, will step down from the board on 15 December 2019 after overseeing an orderly transition of the board,including the establishment of the International Advisory Board. *Mcebisi Jonas has been appointed Chairman-designate and will assume the position of Chairman of MTN Group effective 15 December 2019. *Dr Khotso Mokhele will assume the responsibilities of Lead Independent Director with effect from 15 December 2019. * Further, Alan Harper, Jeff Van Rooyen and Koosum Kaylan will step down from the Board on 15 Dec 2019 after an orderly transition and handover to incoming directors. *Peter Mageza and Dawn Marole will step down from the Board effective 30 April 2020. Further to the above, we are pleased to welcome onto the Board His Royal Highness Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and Vincent Rague with effect from 1 July 2019. “His Royal Highness, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, is a Nigerian national, the Emir of Kano and a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Vincent Rague is a Kenyan national who worked for the International Finance Corporation for 24 years in a number of senior positions. “We are confident that the incoming directors will bring a wealth of experience, diversity of skills and regional experience to the board.” Mallam Sanusi Lamido is the  14th Emir of Kano.