Some of the Special Olympians sponsored by National Telecommunications Company, Globacom to 2019 Special Olympics Summer games in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, were formally received at the Mike Adenuga Towers, headquarters of Globacom, in Victoria Island, Lagos on Friday. The three athletes sponsored by the telecom giant were Chima Maduakor, Tejumola Ogunlela and Oyinkansola Givens Joseph. They made the nation proud by winning medals during the games. Chima Maduakor, despite being deaf and dumb, won an Olympic gold medal in the Shot-put event, Oyinkansola Givens Joseph won one silver and one bronze medal in badminton events, while Tejumola Ogunlela won two bronze medals in swimming events. Speaking at the event, State Head, SME, Lagos Zone, Globacom, Marie Macfoy, who congratulated the Olympians on their successful outing at the games, stated that Globacom is very proud of the athletes. “Their exploits at the tournament were achieved by the team’s winning attitude and hard work, determination and an irrepressible personal belief that all things are possible, even in the face of severe challenges”, she said. “Globacom is not new to Special Olympics sponsorship.  In 2011, we sponsored the Nigerian contingent to the Special Olympics held in Athens and the contingent returned with 27 medals,” she explained. Macfoy stated that the company’s sponsorship of the athletes is backed by its belief in the objectives of the Games which included ‘improving the lives of special children, helping them to reach their full potentials and creating greater social inclusion for people with intellectual disabilities’. She also reiterated Globacom’s commitment to sports development in the country. “I wish to assure you all that Globacom will continue to reward hard work and excellence in sports, whilst helping our youths to realise their potentials,” she concluded. In his remarks, Manager, Sports Programmes, Special Olympics Nigeria, Adeola Oladugba commended Globacom for providing the opportunity for the athletes to showcase their talents at the global level. According to him “If not for Globacom’s support, the three athletes might not have been able to go on to the world stage. Globacom has done extremely well”.