Winners have emerged at the 10th edition of Korea-Nigeria drawing and painting competition organized for primary schools in the Federal Capital Territory by the Korean Cultural Centre of the Korean Embassy in collaboration with Nigeria. The award ceremony which held on Tuesday in Abuja at the Korean Cultural Centre witnessed the crowning of Ruwo Wodi of Science Primary School, Kwali as the 1st place winner among the 150 pupils who participated in the competition. The Director of the Korean Cultural Centre, Lee Jin Su, in his remark said that the judges were particularly impressed by the level of awareness and creativity of the pupils in bringing interpretation and meaning to the theme of the competition ‘freedom’ through drawing and painting. “There was a lot of difficulty in selecting the winners because we had many wonderful pictures submitted by the pupils; the judges had a hard time picking the best. “It is however important to let the pupils know that apart from natural gifts and talents, consistency in practicing their art and craft is very important.” The Director of FCT UBE-Board, Dr. Adamu Jatau Noma, in his welcome address, said that the event which began a decade ago has been gradually institutionalized in our schools, and have been of tremendous benefits. Represented by the Deputy Director of public/private partnership of UBEB, Hajia Habeeb Barau, Adamu said that: “The cultural centre has a burning zeal to promote bilateral relations between Nigeria and Korea and this was clearly shown in the theme of this year’s competition ‘freedom’. “We cannot underestimate the role of mutual understanding in the economic and social development of any country. “The competition provides opportunity for cultural integration and understanding which an integral component of international relations is. “It is important to note that the transformation that is going on in the education sector in the vocational and technical education, one will quickly infer that drawing and painting would go a long way in preparing the pupils and instilling in them the sense of creativity, hence, leading to self-reliance and economic development.” The President of FCT Art Association, Mallam Audu Sanni, commended the Korean Cultural Centre for creating a window for pupils to express their innate creativity, hence, polishing and horning their talents. He however, urged teachers to improve on themselves and to utilize the opportunity offered to touch the lives of their students. The drawing and painting competition had 35 primary schools participating with a total of 150 pupils. Ten schools were selected for the final stage which produced Habila Jehoshaphat of LEA primary school, Peyi in 3rd place; Edache Damian of Smart Academy Abuja in 2nd place; while Ruwo Wodi of Science Primary School, Kwali, was the overall best in 1st place. Apart from the prizes given to the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd winners, there were other consolation prizes for the 4th to 10th place finanlists. 