A 56th minute penaly converted by Adebola Ajani was all Smart City FC needed to defeat Spartan FC in the final and emerge champion of the 2019 WGB/Lagos State FA Cup at the ‘Soccer Temple’ Agege Stadium on Sunday. The Winners Golden Bet-sponsored competition, which had a record entry of 87 men teams and eight women teams, also saw FC Robo Queens defied the heavy downpour to retain the women’s title by defeating Young Talent 99 Football Academy 5-2 in the final. In a chat with NationSport, Lagos State FA Chairman, Seyi Akinwunmi, who was satisfied with the level of competition at this year’s edition, said the association will give all the necessary support to the state representatives at the Aiteo Cup. “The turn out was very good. Winners Golden Bet has been extra supporting this year and the quality of the game is very good. You could see that the players, both for the male and female this year were actually young and it is very good for the future of the game in Lagos State. We are hopeful that either or both of the teams can go far in the national competition, Aiteo Cup. “They are our football clubs and we have been supporting our football clubs. We support of club in anyway. It’s not for public consumption how we do it, but we have always support our club. Eko football is a family and we will support them. “I’m not disappointed that the teams are not NPFL side, the FA Cup traditionally has always been an opportunity for giant killing. So we saw today that there is no bias as the best team in the competition won. Tomorrow, they can play MFM and got beaten by 5-0, but this is FA Cup completion,” Akinwunmi, who is also the first Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation told NationSport. President of Smart City FC, Anthony Adeboye said the team will put up a better representation at the Aiteo Cup. “We started this club two years ago and we were in the final last year. This year we are able to carry the trophy. It shows hard work and dedication. “I am highly impressed; this competition has shown a lot of talented boys. The semi final was played by grassroot teams and the final too featured two grassroot teams. That shows Lagos State FA are really working. “We played wonderfully well in the Aiteo Cup last year and will not say we were robbed. We played against premier league teams and the boys showcased what they have to offer. They played excellently but God of soccer was not on their side. “This year by God’s grace, I want to assure all our fans that we are going there to represent the state well. My target is to be the champion. We have the team and I believe we can challenge at the national level,” Adeboye, who is also the Senior Special Assistant to the Lagos state governor told NationSport.