An ‘hit and run’ driver on Wednesday crushed a student of the Federal University of Technology Akure (FUTA) to death. The 100-level student identified as Israel Anuoluwapo, died after being rushed to the hospital. The development led to protest by FUTA students, who blocked the major Akure-Ilesa highway to prevent movement of vehicles. They also organised a long procession in honour of their departed colleague. The FUTA authorities, in a statement, raised the alarm over increasing rate of motor accidents on FUTA axis of the Akure-Ilesa road. The university also urged the Federal Road Safety Commission, (FRSC) Ondo State Command to intensify patrol on the route to prevent a recurrence of such incident The statement reads: “The Federal University of Technology Akure has received with shock the death of one of its students, Israel Anuoluwapo, a year one student of mathematics. “He was knocked down by a reckless hit and run driver some 1000 metres from the gate of the University on the Ilesha-Akure Road on Tuesday April 30. “The student was immediately rushed to the University health Centre from where he was transferred to the State Hospital Akure due to the severity of his injuries. “He was thereafter rushed to the Trauma centre Ondo where he died later that day. “The University has notified and commiserated with the family of the student over the unfortunate incident and pray that God will give them the fortitude to bear the painful loss”. The peaceful procession terminated at the University’s gate where the Vice Chancellor, Prof O. Fuwape and Dean of students Affairs addressed them. To address the systemic recklessness on that route, the Ondo State Government has promised to start the immediate construction of speed breakers. Commissioner for works, Taofik Abdulsalam, also visited the scene of the incident to assess the situation for the commencement of work. The University also appealed to the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in the State to intensify patrol on the route to prevent a recurrence of such incident. Head of Media and Protocols of FUTA, Adegbenti Adebanjo, said the school had met with the state government to erect speed limit. Police spokesman, Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police(SP) said the matter had been resolved.