Thandi Swaartbooi is a professional lady drummer.  She came to Abeokuta, Ogun State for the just concluded African Drums Festival, well-prepared to present her case to Africans, more so, to fellow master drummers and Nigerians.  She admitted during the roundtable discussion on how to preserve the tradition of drums as veritable heritage evergreen on the African continent, that in her native country, South Africa, drums are almost non-existent.  She came with tears in her eyes.  Her presentation was emotionally charged.  She practically wept.  Her concern for this great loss in South Africa was deep, it wasn’t the type of concern that was faked.  She couldn’t even pretend about it.  On her face was written her worries. “We need other Africans to help us restore the drums, the dignity of this efficacious instrument”, she began.  “For many years of apartheid, years of struggle for freedom, we lost touch with the drums.  Those years helped to destroy the drums.  Today, we do not know where they are.  In fact, we do not have the drum tradition at the moment.  This is why, I plead, I appeal to fellow master drummers, those of you who know it, who hold the tradition dear to your hearts, to come to our aid.  We want the drums back so that we will begin once more to celebrate our traditions, our festivals”, she pleaded. Because of her love for her people, her love for what they hold dear in their different localities, Thandi has become a renowned master drummer, women leader and music instructor, moving from one place to another, helping her people.  In her role, she helps to nurture young musicians, dancers, instrumentalists and so on.  She didn’t wait for too much money or abundance of help to come her way before she plunged herself into this responsibility.  Thandi is well known in South Africa.  She is very committed to this responsibility.  She concentrates especially on fellow women, mostly the youths who she believes have to return to the music of their forebears. In 1997, she finally formed an only women music group tagged Women Unite.  She travels round to educate them, indoctrinate them on how to be professional performers and artistes who love the traditional instruments.  Early in her primary school Thandi, got exposed to dance, local forms of dances.  This was in the rural area of her native town called Gugulethu where she got used to music, dance and some forms of local musical instruments.  Soon after her schooling she went deep into herself to see how she could be of assistance to others. Today many schools, individuals and groups have benefited from her musical instruments.  Yet that core rudiments of African drums as they obtain in a typical African setting are still missing.  She is convinced beyond doubts that the drum is the King of musical assemblage in Africa.  The bigger the drum, the greater its impact on any musical arrangement. Even then, Thandi does not seem to lose hope.  She has intensified her efforts in her role to help her people.  At the moment, she uses her talent to train and create job opportunities for the youths.  She teaches women marimba, involving dances of diverse cultures, with some type of musical dance steps created by her.  In other programmes, she tries to discourage children from being on the streets.  To her, music can be used to keep them fully engaged. 