In this piece, Gbenga Adedara urges President Muhammadu Buhari to reward loyal party chieftains who worked for the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State during the last elections. The 2019 Presidential election has come and gone, with the attendant results in our memories, archives, stores and libraries for different usages, either for immediate or future analysis. You may recall that before the elections, there were many projections, analysis, postulations and predictions both by known and unknown, believable and unbelievable analysts. Without any doubt, there is not much difference in the prediction and the final results we got from the North West and North East of Nigeria. North Central came with little surprise, especially from Kwara State, as many did not believe that the “Otogee” factor will be that effective due to various factors.  South East and South South came as largely predicted, except that the figures were not as bogus as it used to be. Southwest actually came with some surprises here and there. The results from Oyo State is fairly surprising, while that of Ondo State is graviously surprising as many believed that President Muhammadu Buhari would clearly win in the state due to many reasons, especially given that the incumbent Governor is a member of the ruling party. Unfortunately, the ruling party lost the presidential election woefully in the state. Though, some of the members of the APC in Ondo state actually expressed some fears before the elections due to the rumours of the Governor’s involvement in anti-party activities, and these rumours could not have been believed before the elections. Our fact findings show that the results from Ondo State would have been worse if not for the efforts of some very few individuals like Senator Borofice  who was the flag bearer of the party in Ondo North Senatorial district, and the only Senator elected in the state on the platform of APC. Also, Ambassador (Comrade) Sola Iji, the Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Togo, also played a significant role. This man seems to have fore seen the looming danger when he took the bull by the horn by setting up an independent campaigns structure of the genuine progressives and party men and women across the nook and cranny of the State under the Buhari Osinbajo Re-election Group (BOREG). This group actually worked tirelessly and conspicuously for the re election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the State. Perhaps, the results would have been worse if not for their efforts. APC Stakeholders from Ondo State believe that Comrade Sola Iji and his likes should be rewarded with better appointment knowing well that he is a leader, a bridge builder and a  rallying point for a stronger, better and more united APC in Ondo State. A core Buharist, perhaps, these are the reasons many believe that Ambassador Sola Iji should be the Minister that would be appointed from Ondo State, especially, as many party stakeholders and faithfuls are favourably disposed to his nomination as the Minister from the State. Furthermore, he is from the southern part of the State, since the Governor is from Ondo North. Well, this may be another postulation that time will soon judge.