An American computer hard disk drive manufacturer and data storage firm, Western Digital Corporation, has said Nigeria remained central to its African operation. The firm which just expanded its product portfolio in Lagos, designs, manufactures and sells data technology products, including storage devices, data center systems and cloud storage services. Vice President, Sales, EMEAI at Western Digital, Nigel Edwards, said the firm creates environments for the survival of data which has become the next oil in the country. He said: “Western Digital creates environments for data to thrive; we help our customers capture, preserve, access and transform data. As a country with a significant percentage of digital savvy individuals, Nigeria is an important country for us. We aim to create value to consumers and stakeholders by providing innovative storage solutions. The introduction of an extended product portfolio is a step in the right direction – as we continue to provide improved performance and efficiency for our customers. We are offering new innovation to store and preserve data for today and beyond. With recent advancements in 3D NAND our journey of innovation continues to inspire those who dare to think big about the possibilities of data.” Director of Marketing for EMEA Western Digital, Gerry Edwards, explained that the new products would enhance diversification of Western Digital’s offerings in the country. He said: “We understand the magnitude of this market, which is why we have expanded our distribution channels, so that more people can have access to our products. Nigeria has millions of individuals who use data digitally, one way or the other – we have recognised this opportunity and provided storage solutions for their needs. We offer high-performance, high-capacity and high-quality storage solutions to fit the increasingly digital lifestyles of consumers.” The global data infrastructure leader reinforced its commitment to the local market with the introduction of a range of data storage solutions. The products are poised to expand its existing product portfolio and allow local consumers access a wide range of WD- and SanDisk-brand products. The products include SanDisk Extreme microSDXC UHS-I card, the first 1TB card in the world; SanDisk Ultra Loop with capacities of 32GB, 64GB and 128GB; and the SanDisk Ultra Trek USB 3.0 also available with capacities of 32GB, 64GB and 128GB are all now available and enhance overall drive capacity and performance for customers across Nigeria. Each product was specifically tailored to address capacity needs and provide convenient on-the-go, reliable storage solutions for customers. Western Digital’s product line also includes the SanDisk mobile storage solutions portfolio, with storage devices such as the iXpand flash drive, SanDisk Ultra Dual Drive m3.0, microSD and SD cards (SanDisk Extreme and SanDisk Extreme PRO). The portfolio also encompasses a wide variety of SanDisk external SSD and WD internal SSDs, including the new addition to the award-winning WD Blue solid state drive (SSD) portfolio, the WD Blue SN500 NVMe   SSD. Moreover, and with such a diverse portfolio, Western Digital strives to deliver a complete experience to its Nigerian customers through its efficient aftersales services.