As Guinness Nigeria, a subsidiary of Diageo turns 69 years of its operations in Nigeria, its Managing Director/CEO, Baker Magunda has catalogues its achievements in the past years. He said that currently Guinness Nigeria’s local content sourcing stands at 75%, and there are plans in place to increase this significantly in the coming years. “Guinness Nigeria Plc also supports agriculture through the company’s ‘Grow with Nigeria’ program, a local raw material sourcing scheme, which empowers indigenous farmers,” he added. Noting that Guinness Nigeria Plc is the first and only total beverage alcohol company in the country offering a wide range of products across categories, he said the company has been contributing to the economic and societal development of Nigeria for nearly seven decades. “As the first country to produce Guinness outside of Ireland, Nigeria is an extremely important market to Diageo. This year, we also celebrate being the first Country to launch and produce Baileys Delight, a variant of the popular Baileys Cream liquor and also the first country to produce Guinness Gold, a premium lager beer product,” he said. He said that through various initiatives and investments in community development and sustainability, Guinness Nigeria continues to be committed to the social and economic growth of the country as he said through its ‘Water of Life’ initiative; the company has provided clean water facilities to over 1.5million Nigerians in Communities across Nigeria. “Most recently to the D’Ka community of Kebbi State where, prior to the intervention, locals travelled about 10kms daily to access clean water and the company also works to consistently create awareness on the dangers of drink- driving, and encourage road safety,” he added. Further demonstrating its commitment to the health of Nigerians, the business has built three Guinness Eye Hospitals, which have impacted the health of thousands of people. Two of them still bear the Guinness name in Lagos and Onitsha. These are just a few of Guinness Nigeria Plc’s many initiatives which confirm the company’s commitment to not just do business in Nigeria, but to always support the country’s growth and its people.