A Badagry Customary Court sitting at the City Town Hall on Tuesday dissolved a 23-year-old marriage on grounds of battery. The court President, Mr Shakirudeen Adekola, dissolved the marriage between Florence Ajayi, 43, and Olubisi, 46, following a petition by Florence, who said Olubisi constantly beat her even for asking questions. Adekola gave the custody of three of five children produced by the mariage to the petitioner. The court president held that the remaining two children were above 18 years and were  at liberty to decide which of their parents to live with. “From the evidence adduced by both parties in court, it is very clear that this marriage has broken down irretrievably and both parties are better allowed to go their ways. “The respondent shall have unfettered access to the children of the marriage, and they are allowed to spend holidays and vacation with him,” he said. The court president ordered the parties to maintain peace between themselves, their families and communities wherever they would meet. “Olubisi shall pay to the plaintiff a sum of N20,000 monthly allowance for upkeep of the three children to be with the plaintiff. “Both parties are allowed to appeal against this judgement within 30 days from May 7. “Finally, violation of any of these orders shall be deemed contempt of court and shall be dealt with accordingly,’’ Adekola held. Earlier, Florence, who resides at Bayo Bus Stop, off 10 Shops, Aradagun, Badagry,  told the court to dissolve her marriage over constant beating by Olabisi. “My lord, my husband beats me anytime I ask him reasons for not sleeping at home. “Each time my husband answers phone calls from his concubines, he leaves the home and will not sleep at home that day. “As a trained nurse, I built shops inside my husband’s house where I sell medicines and attend to patients after returning from the hospital where I work. “Anytime, we have a misunderstanding, after beating me, he will go right to my shop and scatter my things and send away my customers,” she said. Responding, Olabisi,  who lives at Elijah Bus Stop, beside Apulu Church, Badagry, however, denied the allegations. 