Ekiti Peoples’ Democratic Party stakeholders have blamed the immediate governor, Ayodele Fayose for the abysmal performance of the party in the last elections in the State. The stakeholders said Fayose’s alleged dictatorial tendency and high handedness in running the affairs of the party without consultation caused the party’s defeat. They comprised of former house of representatives, serving house of assembly members and party members across the 16 local government of 177 wards in Ekiti. They further added that Fayose’s divide and rule tactics to maximize his selfish interest destabilize the State Assembly, thus, snowballed into the party losing control of the Local Government. The allegations were contained in a report jointly signed by PDP Ekiti State Repositioning Committee Chairman and Secretary Hon. Kehinde Odebunmi and Hon. Oladipo Ebenezer respectively and presented to concerned Party’s Stakeholders on Thursday at Ifaki-Ekiti. The stakeholders said the State Working Committee of the party was a titular head who was never in control of the party’s affairs but being teleguided by the former governor. They called on the aggrieved members of the party to return, saying they would be given sense of belonging unlike before when elective positions were decided by a single person. Following extensive deliberation on the report submitted, the stakeholders issued a communique signed by Dr. Jimi Oke. According to the communique, the stakeholders berated imposition of candidates on the party by Fayose, saying that has bred indiscipline and consequently caused low morale among the disciplined members. They called on the State Executive Committee to disclose the status of the new party’s secretariat which is under construction, stressing that information revealed that both the old and new buildings had been allegedly sold. “We submit that imposition of candidate in our party, PDP is inimical to the progress our party. That this has bred indiscipline among members and has caused low morale among the discipline members. “That the former governor, Ayo Fayose campaigned against the PDP and its candidate in the last election and he has not been checked or sanctioned by the party’s NWC. “That the stakeholders resolved that the status of the party secretariat which is under construction should be disclosed by the SWC of our party to all party members in Ekiti State. “That the PDP were all aware is the party to beat in Ekiti State but has to be restructured and allow discipline to remain supreme”, it said. They, however, called on the party’s National Working Committee to check and sanction Fayose to have allegedly campaigned against the party’s candidate, Senator Biodun Olujimi in the last National Assembly election.