Pupils of Halifield Schools, Lagos explored the diverse culture of countries such as New Zealand, Greece, Jamaica and Mexico in dance, drama and song presentations tagged One world, diverse culture and Joseph and his Technicolor dream coat. The two-in-one concert held at Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island Lagos, was part of the school’s commitment to building a total child that can confidently face the future as well as build one global village. The pupils’ presentation showcased New Zealand as a small island nation home to around 4.5 million people located in the Pacific Ocean. It is famous for its national rugby team, its indigenous Maori culture and its picturesque landscape, among others. Mexico on the other hand has large majority of Mexicans have been classified as “Mestizos”, meaning in modern Mexican usage that they identify fully neither with any indigenous culture nor with a Spanish cultural heritage, but rather identify as having cultural traits incorporating elements from indigenous and Spanish traditions. Oreofe Oyemade who represented Mexico said she talked about one of Mexico’s famous games referred to as Charrería, a modern bullfight which includes traditional folk dancing and equestrian events such as   charrería (or charreada). Charrería, like a Mexican rodeo, is the national sport of Mexico. Jamaican culture is mixed with diverse ethnic groups, stemming from a history of inhabitants beginning with the original Taino people. Pupils also showcased Jamaica as home of Bob Marley’s roots reggae, which is so much more than just Bob Marley. Bob is only one out of literally thousands of amazing reggae artists in Jamaica. They also mirrored Greece as the cradle of Western culture and democracy. The ancient Greek pioneered in many fields that rely on systematic thought, including biology, geometry, history, philosophy and physics. They introduced such important literary forms as epic and lyric poetry, history, tragedy, and comedy. On the essence of the event, Mrs. Halimat Oke said it was a show of different cultures, even though it’s one world, there are differences. “But these differences should seal the whole world because amidst the differences we still see things that pertain to each and every culture. Cultural diversity is a valuable resource for attaining developmental goals,” she said. She added that one of the reasons for the presentation was to promote long term study, which she said, is the best way to teach children not to forget. She added that it also affords learners to imbibe a lot of knowledge. “What these children have learnt during the time of practice they will never forget. They have learnt about different cultures and anthems most adults don’t know,” she said    