Nigeria continues its resurgence at the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup Africa holding in Kampala, Uganda to remain relevant after downing Ghana by 28runs in its third match of the competition. The match played at the Kyambogo Cricket Oval saw the Nigerians dominating their Ghanaian counterparts to record their second victory in the competition after losing their opening match to Kenya on Monday. On Thursday May 23, Nigeria will face their biggest test when they confront high-flying Namibia in the last match of the day in Lugogo. Namibia were the big winners on the second day of action on Tuesday after outplaying hosts Uganda in the main game. Having skipped to 53 for four, Namibia needed a stand from someone. Cue Karl Birkenstock, with an outrageous knock of 59 from just 28 balls. He smashed four sixes in the process, but also mixed that power with some deft reverse sweeps and deflections. There was also support from Christi Viljoen (33), as Namibia posted a competitive 168 for seven. That target was too far for the hosts, who capitulated to the pressure exerted by Viljoen, with the ball this time. After his runs, he then snapped up four for 15, as Uganda were restricted to 125 for eight. Smarting from their opening loss to Kenya, Nigeria opened their account when they got the better of Botswana on Tuesday by just 11 runs. Runs and wickets from Isaac Danladi were the key, as he made a measured 37 from 34 balls, while Abiola Ayannaike chipped in with 33. Though the West African middle-order collapsed from 94 for four to 119 all out, they had given their bowlers something to work with.Adithiya Rangaswamy was the spark for the collapse, taking four for 21 while Dhruv Maisuira took three for 17 on his international debut. Danladi, like most of the Nigerian seamers, was then a thorn with his accurate off-spin. He took two for 23, after Isaac Okpe had kicked things off with an excellent spell of two for 17. In the final analysis, Botswana were kept to 108 for seven, to lose by just 11 runs. Also on Thursday May 23 in Kyambogo, Botswana will take on Kenya while Uganda will battle Ghana