THE All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ifaki Ward II, Ekiti State has suspended former Governor Segun Oni for alleged involvement in anti-party activities. The party, which did not mention the alleged anti-party activities, gave the suspension order in a letter dated yesterday. It was addressed to the former APC Deputy Chairman (South). The letter was signed by the ward chairman, Shina Akinloye, and the secretary, Ogunyemi Taiwo, as well as 24 other executive members in the ward. APC executive members in Ido /Osi Local Government Area also signed the suspension letter through their Assistant Financial Secretary A. Suleiman and the Assistant Organising Secretary Olanrewaju Olamope. Oni was earlier summoned to defend himself over allegations levelled by some party members within seven days, which lapsed yesterday. The summon was contained in a letter dated April 24, which was signed by the Ward chairman and Ward Secretary. The letter of invitation was received on Oni’s behalf by one Segun Adetunji on April 25. But, in the suspension letter, the party said it took the action over Oni’s failure to appear before the ward executive to clear the allegations. The letter reads: “Subject to Article 21 Subsections I, II and X of the APC Constitution 2014 as amended, we undersigned executive members of the APC hereby suspend you indefinitely from our great party, based on your refusal to honour our invitation for investigation and fact-finding into the allegation of anti-party activities levelled against your person by the members of our party. “We are by the copy of this letter informing both the local government and state working committee of the party for necessary information and action.” In his reaction, the former governor said he was yet to be notified on his suspension. “I am not sure. There is a structure in the party. There is a way things are done in the party. “The constitution of the party is clear on cases of suspension. It clearly sites circumstances and outlines procedures to be taken to warrant and effect a suspension. “If any suspension exists, I need to be notified. And if such circumstances do not exist nor procedures taken in line with the party’s extant laws, then a suspension invariably does not exist,” he said. On his failure to heed the invitation of Ifaki APC Ward as conveyed in a letter dated April 24, the former governor queried the pedigree of people behind the said invitation. “Who are they? I am not a nobody in the party. So, I cannot be expected to honour such a faceless invitation. “Who are they? What is their pedigree? If a group of rascals signed a letter, how can they expect me to give any thought to such? Let those who wrote the letter show face and level allegations,” Oni said. The Ifaki born politician had challenged Fayemi’s victory at the May 12, 2018 governorship primary in which he came second after he had initially congratulated the winner. The ex-governor, in his suit, claimed that Fayemi was not eligible to stand as the APC flag bearer because he did not resign from office as Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the shadow election. But, the Supreme Court, in its judgment, finally dismissed Oni’s suit for lack of merit. It said Fayemi didn’t breach the law by resigning after the primary.