Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun says his administration has fulfilled the promise made to the people on homeowners’ charter programme, to ensure that successful applicants under the scheme receive title documents of their properties. Governor Amosun stated this during the 40th and final batch of the formal presentation of Certificates of Occupancy and Building Plan Approval to beneficiaries, at the Arcade Ground, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Amosun, represented by the Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Adewale Oshinowo, said 86.2 percent applications were executed out of 40,794 qualified applicants that fully paid for the C of O, saying 82.3 percent building plan approval out of 37,828 applications were also granted by the Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning. ‘’We have been able to fulfill our promise at ensuring that all qualified applicants under homeowners’ charter programme received the desired titled documents of their properties. The outstanding 13.8 percent qualified applications are work in progress, which would be processed and picked at the Bureau of Lands and Survey subsequently. ‘’82.3 percent building plan approval out of 37, 828 applications granted by Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning, 8.4 percent applicants refused to process their applications further and 9.3 percent would be processed and picked up at the Ministry”, he said. The Governor assured that other qualified applicants that are yet to receive their documents would be invited by the Bureau of Lands and Survey and Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning to pick up their land title documents. In his opening remark, the Director, Land Management, Bureau of  Lands and Survey, Mr. Fatai Adeboyejo congratulated the beneficiaries, describing the documents presented to them as  treasure to be valued at all times and used to create wealth. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Mr. Fashina Oluyinka from Isorosi, Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area said, the State government has done well for the people of the State.