Dean of the School of Media and Communication, Pan-Atlantic University Dr Ikechukwu Obiaya has confirmed the commencement of Master’s program in Film Production among the line of courses offered at the institution. Speaking in Lagos on Tuesday, the Dean also confirmed that the studies on the newly introduced course which will start in October with the program scheduled to run for five to seven semesters. Four key knowledge areas which includes; scripting and directing for the Screen; Cinematography; Editing for the Screen and Sound Design for the Screen will be covered during the semesters. And, according to Obiaya there would be specialisation options in seven major film production areas which includes; short film, documentary; interview and feature film. Others are serial drama, commercial filmlet and the music video. The program would produce industry-ready graduates that would provide manpower as both practitioners and academics citing there are many opportunities for graduates within Nollywood and in newer areas of the digital switchover in Nigeria. “The MSc in Film Production draws from the deep interest of the School in film, epitomised by its successful running of the Nollywood Studies Centre for a decade now and its rich repertoire of movie archives and training activities.” Mr Okechukwu Ogunjiofor, Paulo in the trail blazing Living in Bondage (1992) and Mr Femi Odugbemi, Director for West Africa of the DSTV MulitChoice Talent Factory Academy, were some of players in Nollywood industry who subscribed to the study program Others includes; Mr Kene Mkparu, founder of FilmHouse Cinemas and currently President/CEO of Komworld and Mr Dapo Adeniyi, promoter of the forthcoming Lekki International Film Festival starting in June. “The Digital Switchover (DSO) in broadcasting in Nigeria means there are opportunities for trained persons to work in content creation, production and marketing for the expansion that digital would cause in radio and television. “Programming would require new skills and capabilities that the MFP would teach. The history of the industry shows that it is one that creates new markets and vistas almost out of nothing. It is an exciting time to study such a course,” Obiaya added.