The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has taken some strategic initiatives to attract students of higher institutions to the securities and investment profession in Nigeria. The institute has also urged stockbrokers to deploy their diversified talents to boost its activities for enhanced global competitiveness. Addressing stockbrokers at the Institute’s 26th annual general meeting in Lagos, President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Adedapo Adekoje explained that the CIS had taken some strategic decisions to boost investor education, especially, among the students in the higher institutions. According to him, today’s youths are the future investors and should be exposed to the culture of savings and investment He noted that activities such as career talks, debate competition, use of promotional videos organising weekend revision classes and provision of study packs to assist them in preparation for examination. The institute implemented some key strategic initiatives to attract students of Nigerian higher institutions to the securities and investment profession during the year. Career talks were delivered in several universities including Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Augustine University, Covenant University, University of Lagos, Kogi State University, University of Abuja, University of Nigeria, Nsukka and Nasarawa State University, Keffi to sensitize students to opportunities in the profession. In addition, a test run of the CIS Inter-Tertiary Institutions Debate Competition was held at Obafemi Awolowo University. It recorded immense acceptance and success. The institute also organized a one-day students’ forum in Lagos with the objective of creating a platform for interaction between the Institute, examiners, tuition providers and students, and provide an avenue for exchange of ideas for the advancement of the Institute. Adekoje also explained that a temporary special window had been created for experienced academics, holders of CFA and CIIA qualifications and senior executives of regulatory agencies in the financial sector, including the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), The Nigerian Stock Exchange, Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) and the National Pension Commission among others. According to him, the institute has secured direct membership status of the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment, United Kingdom for stockbrokers in order to expand their professional horizon in the global capital market. He urged stockbrokers to deploy their talents to support the Institute in its efforts to implement an array of strategic plans to move the market to the next level. Stockbrokers commended the institute for its landmark achievements and approved all the motions, including amendments to the requirements for aspiring to become President and Vice President. 