Blind date can be so unnerving even for the confident ones. Basically, you just want to hook up with the person you haven’t met before. Few things strike terror into the hearts of men so much. What is the person going to look like? Are you both going vibe together?  What if it’s a total disaster? Here are some few pointers on how you can survive a blind date, START WITH A PHONE CALL Before going on a blind date, it is important to talk to your date  on phone, listen to her voice, get more details about your date, make plans about the date, ask her about her background  and what interests her so much, so when you go on that first date, though it’s blind, it’s not in the dark BE  POSITIVE Nobody like a curmudgeon, stay positive. Set your expectations to be neutral. Don’t be too negative or assume you are about to embark on a worst case scenario. If you keep thinking then the outcome would surely turn up to be a bad one, so when going for a blind date has a positive mindset. Give yourself and you’re a chance to have fun and enjoy each others’ company .Even if the date doesn’t end up in a romantic relationship, the both of you might end becoming tight friends which is also a good thing. DON’T BE TOO ANXIOUS Don’t be too full of disquietude when going for a blind date, Anxiety kills your self- esteem and questions might begin to pop up in your mind which can lead to negativity. It is okay if you are nervous or anxious but it should be at a minimal level. Build up confidence and set out for your date. The outcome result would be positive. WEAR SOMETHING SMART AND LOOK MODERATE Remember, you’re meeting someone you don’t know or seen before. If you’re overdressed or under-dressed, you’ll make him or her feel uncomfortable. What you should target is that your date should notice you that you’ve made effort to look presentable. If you’re a woman, don’t go for any outfit that makes you feel conscious. That means skip the 6-inches which might make you stumble or prevent you from taking a comfortable walk alongside your date as well as the tiny dress that you need to pull down and adjust every few minutes. If you’re a guy, avoid overly causal clothes. You can still wear something that looks great and feels comfortable without going the t-shirt and thongs route. The most important thing is that you wear something appropriate for a first date. BE YOURSELF, DON’T FORM WHAT YOU ARE NOT If you find your date very attractive, there’s no need to form be yourself don’t embellish any stories about yourself or even brag about yourself just so you can impress him or her. Fine you want your date to find you appealing in return but being fake or feeling arrogant isn’t the way to do that. This might just cause your date to feel intimidated or see you as someone who is proud and up yourself.be warm and interesting but above all adopt the code which states “BE YOURSElf” It’s good to talk about your accomplishments or success in life, in as much as it is appropriate to the conversation and was not brought up to brag about yourself. CHOOSE A SUITABLE PLACE FOR THE DATE This is a blind date and so you don’t want to be stuck in an upscale restaurant for a full course dinner with someone who might turn out to be not your type. If your taste is not the coffee shops and parks, arrange to meet in a place where you’re sure you will have a swell good time. That way, it can be by the sea shore, or anywhere that is pleasant. ALWAYS TAKE ENOUGH CASH You don’t know the kind of person you want to meet but it is advisable that you take your own cash when going for a blind date to be on a safer side. Who knows your partner might fuck up and just escape and leave you alone to sort the bills. Just play safe. LISTEN ADEQUATELTY AND CAREFULLY; Some people just want to talk about yourselves. Use this opportunity to learn about your date if he/she is worthy to be in a relationship with. Every person has a story to tell. You may be missing an epic tale if you’re too busy talking about yourself. In the case of you listening you might not understand something so just ask questions to be clear about it. CREATE A SENSE OF HUMOR Laughter is the best medicine for a blind date, just make the place lively. Say things that are funny but not stupid. Ensure the date is not a dull one, make the date a memorable that he/she would even want to request for a second time. PREPARE YOUR OPEN-ENDED QUESTIONS: You don’t want to appear like you’re cross- examining your date. If you’re a naturally curious person, then stick to open-ended questions. That way, you’re leaving the door open for your date to tell you more about himself/herself. AVOID BEING JUDGEMENTAL Love, at first sight, is great but don’t be too quick to dismiss someone if you don’t feel an instant connection. You may find that your impression of your date a second time around is quite different to the first, and much better. Try to keep an open mind and don’t be too critical. 