The Director-General of the Industrial Training Fund (ITF),Sir Joseph Ari, has urged graduates seeking for white collar jobs to stop having  the perception that skills acquisition is only preserved for the illiterates and never-do-well in the society. He, therefore, advised the generality of  Nigerians , irrespective of educational background to take advantage of the numerous skill acquisition intervention programmes introduced and implemented by the scheme to facilitate the achievement of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration on job and wealth creation. Ari , said the state of unemployment in the country is quite worrisome , as even in the face of existing vacancies in several sectors of the national economy , as revealed by surveys conducted by the ITF and other organisations,  youths still roam the streets without any form of gainful employment . The DG boss who spoke  at the graduation ceremony of 300 youths in Bauchi , Friday , who  benefitted from the National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP) , courtesy of ITF, therefore said hands on skills should not be seen as dirty and preserve for the illiterates and never -do- wells in the society. Sir, Joseph Ari who was represented by  the zonal director in Bauchi strate, Suleiman Abdullahi Ningi therefore urged parents to encourage their wards to embrace skill acquisition. He said further that since inception, the ITF through the NISDP and other skill acquisition programmes has equipped over 450,000 Nigerian youth nationwide and over 4000 youths in Bauchi with skills for employability and entrepreneurship. “Our Commitment to skill acquisition is based in the fact that it is the most sustainable solution to combatting unemployment, reducing poverty and youth restiveness in the country. It is incontrovertible that any society that neglects the development of its human capital is bound to retrogress in terms of growth and development. “In Nigeria , the situation is especially  worrisome as even in the face of existing vacancies in several sectors of the national economy , as revealed by surveys conducted by the ITF and other organisations, youths roam the streets without any form of gainful employment giving rise to crimes and other social vices that have beset out dear nation today ” “Similarly, parents and guardians have to begin to see hands-on skills as vocations and as real alternatives that could lead to a meaningful life  The era of white- collar jobs for all by government is well and truly over. The perception that hands on skills are dirty and preserve for the illiterate and never -do- wells in our society must change .Parents and guardians must therefore encourage their wards to acquire skills” He said He said further that the NISDP  focuses on skill acquisition to create jobs to stem rampant unemployment and breed new generation of entrepreneurs, in order to transform the economic landscape of the country. Mr Ari did advise the beneficiaries of the NISDP to make the most of the opportunity provided by the ITF skills acquisition programmes not only as a source of living but to contribute to the Nigerian economy. He said the ITF is working vigorously to equip Nigerians with lifelong skills in Agriculture, Construction, Transport and services sectors and others. Earlier in his welcome address, the Area Manager of the ITF in Bauchi,Richard Baba,   said the organization has recorded tremendous success courtesy of the tireless effort put together by the management of the fund under the able leadership of the Director General ,Sir Joseph Ari. He said the NISDP was solely fashioned out by the Federal Government and ITF to take away the teaming unemployment youth from the streets of the nation. He therefore advised the trainees not to kill their dream but nurture it by putting into use the skills acquired and the starter pack given for their benefit and other people in their locality and the state as a whole. Meanwhile , the representative of the 300 trainees, Adamu Abdulkadir has also urged his follow trainee to take advantage of the opportunity by contributing their quota to the community and the state in its entirety. Highlight of the graduation ceremony includes presentation of certificate,and starter packs to the trainees. The youths were trained on Catering and Event Management, Tiling and Plaster of Paris (POP) and Aluminum Fabrication.