Ondo State Commissioner for Health Dr. Wahab Adegbenro has praised the Nigeria State Health Investment Project (NSHIP) for facilitating improved health care services at the Primary Health Care (PHC) level in the state. At a media chat in Akure on the activities of NSHIP in the state at the weekend, Adegbenro said NSHIP, which now operates a modified Performance Based Financing system, provides a platform to reward performance through the availability of bonus which, according to him, will be made available to health workers. He hinted that efforts are on to sustain the project at its expiration in 2020. According to him, the government has scaled up the number of mother and child hospitals to seven, and also introduced the Contributory Health Scheme. He, however, reiterated the government’s resolve in ensuring that the people access qualitative health care. Executive Secretary, Ondo State Primary Health Care Development Agency Dr. Francis Akanbiemun noted that the project, which started in 2011, has improved tremendously, especially in maternal and child health issues. Akanbiemun explained that the modified performance based financing makes it possible for assessment to be carried out by the community. He praised NSHIP for infrastructural upgrade at the PHC level and reiterated the government’s support for the various PHC facilities across the state. NSHIP Project Coordinator Dr. Paulinus Omode noted that NSHIP was piloted in the state in December 2011 in Ondo East, and spread to other councils in 2014. He explained that the initial approach embraced the use of quantity verification payment with condition quality and sanction applied after ex-post verification. According to him, NSHIP is set to make use of the modified Performance Based Finance (PBF) approach which entails no quantity verification and counter verification, payment no longer based on number of services verified, quality verification and counter verification remains, introduction of lots of quantity assurance survey and PBF bonus which is conditioned on quality among others.