The weekend is here and it’s time to relax, unwind, forget about the stressful week, meet new people, hang out and most importantly, spend time with family and friends. Sometimes, a weekend trip is all you need to have a fun, memorable, and rejuvenating experience. If you live in Lagos or you plan to visit for the weekend, here are 10 fun places in Lagos you can visit. 1. Get Arena Located opposite Lagos Oriental Hotel, Get Arena offers the finest Go karts in Lagos. It’s an ideal location for a family outing or a group hangout. You can create your own racing league, enjoy corporate competitions or tournaments for the adults and the kids. After an exhilarating ride, you can feast on a salivating spread of fine dishes and most sumptuous cocktails.  2. Omu Resort Omu Resort offers so many recreational activities to enable you to loosen up and erase, completely, the stress of the week. The resort comes with a package deal that includes – Zoo, Amusement park, Go kart, Quad biking, Archery, Wax Museum, Kayaking/Boating and lots more.  3. Hi-Impact Planet Amusement Park Although not located in Lagos (10 minutes drive from Berger), Hi-Impact Planet Amusement Park is a place to hang out with your kids and give them a treat after a hectic school week. It has a world-class amusement park with exciting outdoor rides, amazing indoor games for kids, and the family to have an unforgettable fun experience.  4. Lekki Conservation Center Lekki Conservation Centre is a park that offers an escape from the everyday hustle life of Lagos and it is located on Lekki Peninsula. It prides on its canopy walk that happens to be the longest canopy walk in Africa.  5. Barracuda Beach Resort Located in Lekki, the beach resort is one of the best private beaches in Lagos. It is an ideal location for family gatherings, corporate retreats, and team bonding as well as time out with friends. Barracuda Beach offers a serene private getaway to locals and tourists alike.   6. La Campagne Tropicana Resort One of Africa’s most visited beach resort, La Campagne Tropicana, is a tropical getaway situated on a piece of isolated nature along the Lekki Expressway. The resort lies on the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, bordered by Ikegun Lake.   La Campagne Tropicana offers comfortable accommodation with 29 well-equipped chalets, luxury tents, a private swimming pool and the perfect beach for picnics. Each en suite tent at the overlooks the beach and comes designed with a private bathroom, a flat-screen television, a minibar, a fully-equipped kitchen, tea/coffee making facilities and a private balcony. 7. The Mall Lagos has several malls in different locations and most of these malls have cinemas like Filmhouse, Silverbird, Genesis Deluxe, and Ozone Cinemas. Also, you could grab something to eat and play games with your family and friends at the mall. Some of the malls in Lagos are Maryland mall, Maryland, Ikeja City Mall, Ikeja, Leisure mall/Adeniran Ogunsanya mall, Surulere, The Palms, Lekki, Novare Lekki mall, Lekki, E center, Yaba, and Festival Mall, Amuwo Odofin 8. Nike Art Gallery Nike Art Gallery is an art gallery in Lagos owned by Nike Davies-Okundaye. The gallery is arguably the largest of its kind in West Africa. Housed in a five-storey tall building, it boasts a collection of about 8,000 diverse artworks from various Nigerian artists. You can go there to learn about Nigeria’s history, try your hands on crafts, take loads of pictures, take a cup of coffee at the cafe and it’s totally free! 9. Freedom Park Freedom Park is a memorial and leisure park area in the middle of downtown Lagos in Lagos Island, Nigeria which was formerly Her Majesty’s Broad Street Prison. It was designed by the Architect Theo Lawson. The Park was constructed to preserve the history and cultural heritage of Nigerians. Freedom Park will transport you to what life was like in Nigeria in the past through theater and drama events, old school live bands, prison setting with its popular amphitheater where you watch plays like a Greek.   Fun Fact: The park used to be a prison but was remade to stand for something better, alive and peaceful. 10. Terra Kulture Terra Kulture is a one-stop venue for the creatives. If you and your family/friends are interested in music, visual arts, culinary, film, fashion, design or dance, then this place is perfect for you! The Terra Kulture building is home to a restaurant, a craft shop, a library, a language school and theatre, and its central feature; the art gallery. It is proud to have hosted readings by renowned Nigerian authors such as Wole Soyinka, Sefi Atta, Chimamanda Adichie, and others for book readings.  Have a blissful weekend!