The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has vowed to check the influx of fake and substandard goods such as building materials in the Southsouth region of the country.  The agency said the current upbeat activities in the seizure of these substandard goods are as a result of the constant sensitisation campaign backed by the SON Act No. 14, 2015. Goods worth billions of naira have been seized so far. There were been reported cases of bursting of large warehouses with fake and substandard re-bagged cement, iron rods, tyres, fake  cables imported from China, substandard electrical appliances, keys, locks and doors. SON Director-General, Osita Aboloma, who spoke at a sensitisation forum in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, said the seizure and ongoing prosecutions are clear signs that the organisation is reaping the immense benefits from the SON Act as observed when the powers and sanctions were limited, thereby making it inadequate to confront the menace of substandard products in the country. He lamented that these life threatening products could cause large destruction of life and properties if not checked. He advised manufacturers to always certify their products so as to meet the required standards, urging all interested parties to stay clear of dealing with substandard products or risk sanction, prosecution or jail terms as a result of their illicit actions. SON Regional Coordinator, South south, Saleh Babaji, who represented Aboloma said the Act clearly stipulates that all products manufactured in Nigeria must be certified to the Nigeria Industrial Standard (NIS) through the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme (MANCAP), while imported products must comply with SON Offshore Conformity Assessment programme (SONCAP) along with other certification and registration schemes as prescribed. On the reason for the nationwide sensitisation and awareness, he responded that it is to ensure that Nigerians are informed about standardisation and seek cooperation with stakeholders in ensuring that the Act enhances  quality assurance in their processes to boost economic diversification.