Mr. Emeka Okwuosa, an engineer, is the Group Chief Executive Officer of Oilserv Group. In this interview with Assistant Editor EMEKA UGWUANYI, he says indigenous oil firms are already playing in the deepwater terrain of the oil and gas sector. He stresses the importance of Nigeria’s two massive gas pipeline projects – OB3 and AKK. He also speaks on the need to drive technology growth in Nigeria, among others. THE Obiafu-Obrikom-Oben (OB3) pipeline is said to be a game changer and you are playing a key role. When is it getting to the final stage and how will Nigerians feel the impact of the strategic project? Let’s put OB3 in proper perspective. No pipeline of that size or capacity has been built in Nigeria. You may recollect where we are coming from in the 1970s, ‘80s, and ‘90s, when we had the likes of Willbros Group and McDermott International, among others and there were no Nigerian players. But even at that, if you look at all our pipeline infrastructure, nowhere hasa 48-inch pipeline been built, but that is what we building. Let us also put this in perspective. It is not just about the pipeline we building. We also have the Gas Treatment Plant (GTP) at Oben, which is part of our scope.This is a GTP that will handle two billion standard cubic feet per day (2bscf/d) of gas. This has never existed in Africa. When we talk about OB3, it is not just about building a pipeline. Our own section, don’t forget there are two lots there. We are building Lot B that will take the gas from mid-point to Oben plant plus the Oben plant itself. For our pipeline, we finished it three years ago, but the treatment plant took a longer time because the location was changed from Oben North to the GTP location and it took us two years to go through the re-engineering and getting the approvals. But the story is clear: the pipeline and the GTP are going through pre-commissioning in our section. The management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) visited the facility last month. By September, our own lot would have been done. With the completion of your Lot, will the pipeline be in operation without the other party working on Lot A completing its section? To some extent, no; but it depends on how the owner of the pipeline wants to use it. One thing you have to know about the technicality is that we have a pipeline going to GTP Oben, but we have a 36-inch line we built from Oben GTP to Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System (ELPS), which is Oben North; that is a bi-directional pipeline. This means you can take gas from the GTP in Oben to ELPS or take from ELPS to GTP. So, the answer is yes and no. Yes, in the sense that from the 36-inch pipeline, which we have completed, you can take gas from ELPS to Oben to Ajaokuta when we commission it. But the other section cannot be completed except Lot A is completed and is able to evacuate gas from Obiafu-Obrikom to Oben. What are the inhibiting factors to participation of indigenous companies in  deepwater terrain? Do you see indigenous companies operating in that terrain in the nearest future? We are already operating in that terrain in reality. When you say operating in the deepwater, you look at it from two different points. Are you looking at Exploration and Production (E&P) ownership, which is operatorship or are you looking at services? I will talk from services point of view. From the services point of view, Nigerians have been participating all the way from Bonga, Akpo and Usan, which are deepwater assets. All these have had Nigerians’input. There are two key issues with participation in the deepwater arena. It is about technology and capital. Both will take time normally to scale up. Nigerians are participating, but we are only scratching the surface. There is still more opportunity for participation. Now, how do we increase that? Like the Managing Director of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo), Bayo Ojulari, said, we require, basically, to assemble capacity and integrate that capacity by working together to have synergy and to deal with bigger scope. But we are in the integration of the FPSO (Floating Production, Storage and Offloading) vessel, which is the issue of topsides. Nigerians are in pipelines, flow lines and risers and drilling. We are quite in a lot, but it is very competitive and capital intensive and we have to slowly built it up as soon as we can because we have proven capacity, but we need to do more because there is so much out there. How do the indigenous players collaborate to be competitive and add value to the sector? We have been adding value, but not to the extent that we want it. So, the way we can achieve this is by collaborating and synergising among entities and all PETAN members and be able to handle bigger scope and compete with international service providers. Why is there no such collaboration? It is the Nigerian factor. Everyone wants to do things in his own way and it is not the way to go. For instance, if you go to houses that have flats, if it is 20 flats and you have 20 tenants, instead of one tenant providing energy and everyone connects to it and shares the bill, you will see everybody with his own generator. It is a Nigerian factor. It is about understanding that the way to create value requires working together and not as individuals. It is a mindset thing but we will get there. Oilserv is good in nanotechnology and the future of oil and gas is technology. Robotics does a lot of works in the industry. What is your plan in incorporating technology in your operations? We are already incorporating technology in our operations. Many years ago, you could not find any Nigerian company that could do horizontal directional drilling. You would have had to go abroad for people to come and do it. We have deployed that. We have been able to cross rivers with 48-inch pipeline, which would mean drilling and opening the line to 64-inch, which is a major challenge because it collapses a lot. We are encouraging technology a lot as a company. In the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), in the past eight years, we have been sponsoring nanotechnology and it has got a lot of possible applications across board. But, in the oil industry, you can talk of the drilling solutions and materials. But the fact remains that in such technology, we are still on the research stage from where it develops into deployment stage. Deployment requires teaming up between the research entity and the industry. It is a process and that is still at the preliminary stage. Also in UNN, we have sponsored the science park, which they call – the Lion Science Park, the first of its kind in Nigeria. UNN is the first to set up a science park and it was done in collaboration with Ideon Science Park in Sweden. It is a big thing going on in Nsukka. What are we doing there? Incubation of technology from the students at various levels and we help them to develop it, and we link them to industries that can invest and take it to work. If you have a project like this, you may not achieve 100 per cent of your initiative, but if you achieve 20 per cent, you are making a major headway and it will end up like the Silicon Valley. It is things like this that Oilserv encourages to drive technology in Nigeria. There have been talks about the role of robots in deepwater operation. Do you think that is possible in Nigeria? Anything is possible but what we should be asking ourselves is, how do we put that side by side with the Nigerian initiative and benefits? If you take robotics totally the way you see it, you displace human capital and if you displace human capital, what happens to our economy? I won’t say it is not in our interest to deploy that and I won’t say you can stop that because you can’t stop a moving train. You would have to realise that overtime, it may take 10 to 20 years or more, and that may become the norm, but what do you do? You train people to develop such technology, you train them because somebody has to manage that. You will create a different skill-set to drive that, but you cannot completely take out the human interface. What stage is the AKK project? The Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano(AKK) project is very unique, not just what it would achieve, which is to move gas to the northern part of Nigeria to drive industries and create job opportunities. If the North does not have energy, unemployment continues, security problem continues, everybody will suffer. Secondly, AKK is significant because it is the first time a project of that magnitude is being done as engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) and finance. It is not like the previous projects where the NNPC or the International Oil Companies (IOCs) award you a project and pay for it and you go ahead and execute and collect your money. In this project, we (the contractors) are providing the money and to provide such amount is not easy. The total value of that project for the two Lots is about $2.8 billion. This is not the kind of money you raise in Nigeria. You have to go and raise that capital outside the country and for you to raise it, you need security. That security instrument is a process, and part of it requires the Federal Government’s nod. For instance, if you are backing up the financing with the tariff you will raise from that pipeline, don’t forget that most of that tariff, for example, will be in naira. A financier, who is overseas, doesn’t know what you are talking about in naira. So, you have to provide an instrument of convertibility that has to come from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and guarantee that every collection in naira will be immediately converted to dollars. That is the typical instrument. These things take time to get through the government agencies. So, we are going through that process and we are almost there. We have almost finalised the security and we have also started with the early works -engineering. As we speak, the AKK has started; that is the point I’m making. Does the spate of kidnapping and insecurity in the north affect the project? We are Nigerians, if there is kidnapping, we will deal with it. We are not going to stop developing Nigeria because there is kidnapping. In construction, we are tested and we are knowledgeable. We worked 100 per cent between 2002 and 2007 when kidnapping was the norm in the Niger Delta region. Oilserv remained there. We worked in the swamps, maintained all the pipelines, so there are ways to do that. We are Nigerians, we work in Nigeria and we must create capacity in Nigeria. That is not going to be an impediment at all. It is a concern, but we have procedures to deal with that. What is the state of the oil and gas industry and what does it hold for service providers? Oil and gas industry is a very active industry all over the world and, particularly for Nigeria and theme of this year’s OTC panel discussion which hinged on deepwater services and opportunities, tells it all. The Nigerian oil and gas industry has come a long way. Clearly, the oil and gas industry will continue to be relevant and drive the economy, but not quite as much as we expected it in terms of integration into the  economy as far as Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contribution is concerned. There are many structured manners that can be put in place to achieve that. Some of these were discussed at the panel session. What is important is that available opportunities in services, whether it is in deep offshore, land or swamp, less than 20 per cent of that opportunity is being tapped in terms of value, so I can say the opportunities in the oil and gas industry are still huge. Can you tell us something about Oilserv that will encourage upcoming service firms or those intending to come into the subsector? Oilserv was set up on a sound basis and principle. That’s the basis of sound knowledge of engineering and clear plan to grow technology and grow the company organically. When we started in 1995, it was a very small company.  It was only the other employee and I and we slowly built it up. Now, we built it up by reinvesting whatever money we make and acquiring latest technology. It’s not just about technology acquisition, but by knowing the principles of these technologies. For my background, I’m a cerebral engineer and I worked in 12 different countries before I came back to Nigeria. I was principally focused on developing engineering capacity. Along the line, we moved on to look at the best way of achieving the engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) work we have. We later introduced the welding works. Welding is at the core of pipeline construction and the major threat in welding is the fact that using traditional welding system, which is the manual welding system, will involve welders association. Some of them are not there to work, but to create problems and you can’t control the quality of output too. We moved on to develop automatic and semi-automatic welding system where it is more like being in a production line in a factory. We trained our own staff and they became the welders and because it is not manual welding but automatic, so we are not bound by certain rules of the welder association. With this, we are able to do as much as 25 joints a day. Manual welding can’t do more than six joints a day. That’s how we sped up. The other technology is our Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) technology system. You may realise that in building pipelines, you cross rivers, creeks, and all kinds of barriers. If it is water, you will dredge it, drop the pipeline, and cover it up. But by doing that, you disturb the water system, damage the environment and you may muddle the water. If you don’t restate it very well, you create additional problem down the road, which can be erosion of the water bed. We developed a system where we can drill from one bank to the other without touching the bed of the river. In crossing roads, in the past, we have to cut the road; imagine cutting an eight- lane road. Today, we do cross-boring system by going from one end to the other without disturbing vehicular movement on the road. These gave us advantage over others. We invest in human resources. We won the AKK project because it was through a bidding and we came out best.  We are the only company in Nigeria that can deliver such a project. We are the first indigenous firm to graduate from being a construction firm to full EPC company. To be a full EPC company is expensive. It requires investment and dedication. If you look at AKK, you realise we got the first section, which is the most important. If you don’t get the first section right, you don’t have a pipeline. The OB3 is undergoing pre-commissioning. A project of that size, the largest pipeline in Nigeria for gas, which is 48 inches in diameter and 67 kilometres is not a small project. For you to do pre-commissioning, you have to clean up the pipe, pressurise it. Just imagine 48″by 67km pipeline and the volume of water you have to fill it. It has to be sectionalised, fill the water, pressurise and clean it up to meet all the standards before you can remove the water, dry it up.  To dry alone, because you can’t mix water with gas which you intend to transport, you will use a compressor with high pressure and temperature and pump. Just imagine the volume of air you have to pump into 48″ diameter by 67km pipeline. Sometimes, it can take up to three months to dry.