The joy of the people of Nteje, Umunya, Nkwelle Ezunaka, Awkuzu and Ogbunike in Oyi Local Government Area of Anambra State knew no bounds as the Federal Government continues work on the abandoned Umunya-Awkuzu portion of the Onitsha-Enugu Expressway in the state. For many years, that portion of the expressway claimed lives because of the extent of dilapidation. The Onitsha axis of the expressway was reconstructed by the former governor of the state, Peter Obi. The money amounting to over N40 billion which the state government spent on the reconstruction has not been repaid by the Federal Government. The jubilant mood of the communities was displayed during the visit of the Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Babatunde Fashola to the state to inspect work on the road. The 18km road has been a nightmare to motorists over the years, but four kilometrest of it has already been completed. The Minister declared that the entire project would be completed on or before 2021. Drums were rolled out by the affected communities with different dancing troops to entertain the crowed and visitors. The traditional rulers of the communities led by Igwe Roland Odegbo of Nteje were on hand to receive the federal government delegation with pomp. The youth were not left out with placards singing praises of President Muhammadu Buhari and his government for coming to alleviate their sufferings Fashola, who was represented by the Director, Highways in the Federal Ministry of works, Engr. Yemi Oguntomiyi said he was satisfied with the progress and quality of work on the road. He said during the last visit by the Minister on the road, the contractor promised that one lane of the road would be completed to lessen the hardships of the people, knowing the importance of the road not only to the region, but the entire country. Also speaking, the Anambra State Controller of Works, Engr. Adeyemo Ajani, said the contract was awarded in 2015, while the contractor moved to site in 2018. He said work had progressed well, adding that since the contractors were not lacking anything, it was possible that the work would be completed in record time. Not only that, the Minister used the moment  to flag off the construction of  Housing scheme embarked upon by the federal government at Umunya. The 236 hectares of land situated  at the Umunya -Awkuzu communities was donated to the government in 1987. According to Oguntomiyi, the target of the federal government was to provide accommodation for 21,000 persons when completed. The traditional ruler of Umunya, Igwe Chris Onyekwuluje, said Awkuzu and Umunya were happy,as the government’s presence was being felt in their areas. For the traditional ruler of Nteje, Igwe Roland Odegbo, the reconstruction of the expressway and the Housing scheme, had shown that president Buhari has good plans for Igbo. He commended Anambra state Governor, Chief Willie Obiano for being apostle of truth, adding that he continue showing the light for others to follow in the Southeast. 