A suspected drug peddler has said he makes over N3.6 million yearly from the illicit trade. Olukoya Ayodele, 26, told operatives of the Lagos Rapid Response Squad (RRS) that he has been in the business since 2016. His colleague, Victor Godwin, 30, described factory workers as their major customers. RRS said in a statement yesterday that the duo were arrested in Alausa, Ikeja, following intelligence report by its operatives’ decoy that was mandated to uncover illicit drugs being distributed in the area. The suspects are into Indian hemp, Skunk, Tramadol, Refnol, Diazal and others. Ayodele, a graduate of Information Management and a member of the Black Axe Confraternity (Aye), was arrested with charms. RRS said Ayodele claimed that he used them for protection in his student days. He was quoted as saying: “I armed myself with these charms to protect myself from getting killed by rival cultists. I learnt charm making from my father, who is an herbalist. It makes it easy for me to prepare charms for myself and friends. “I came to Lagos after I graduated in 2015, in search of greener pasture, to work as a factory worker. But the work was too stressful. I later began to work as a motor boy in the same area and added drug peddling to it, to augment the low income from the motor boy hustle. “I make over N3.6m annually from the sale of hard drugs and have been in the business for three years. The charms also helped me to transact my business and prevented me from getting caught by security operatives, as the charm shielded me from arrests carried out in the area.” Victor, a boutique owner in the area, said he used the proceeds from the drugs to supplement his income. He added that the proceeds assisted him to pay his rents and prepare for marriage. “I sell hard drugs to factory workers in the area. They use it to work because their work is energy-consuming. I sell one capsule of Tramadol for N300, while Indian hemp and Skunk go for N100. The drug business is lucrative, but I regret my involvement in the illegal business,” Victor said The suspects, The Nation learnt, have been transferred to the narcotics section of the command for further investigations.