Minister of Federal Capital Territory, Mohammed Bello, has said that due process was followed in the demolition of  the controversial Caramelo night club in Abuja. The Federal Capital Territory Development Authority (FCDA), through its Department of Development Control (DDC), had on Monday demolished the controversial Caramelo Lounge, a popular strip club located at No 630, TOS Benson Crescent, Utako District Abuja,  for allegedly contravening the FCT land use regulations. The FCDA authorities also revoked the Certificate of Occupancy (C-of-O) issued on the property. Mohammed, who was responding to a question on why the building was not confiscated rather than demolished, said the action taken was as a last resort following a breach by the original owner. He added that the land has also been forfeited to the government. The minister told journalists that government’s action was not meant to deprive anyone possession of assets in the federal capital city as it is for every one. However, the government, he said, is determined to see that the master plan is not violated. He stressed that the master plan makes provisions for all activities including night clubs, saying that it does not allow a person to convert a building meant for a clinic into a night club. He said: “I’m quite interested also with the way I see the feedback from the wider community. “I have had cause to discuss with many of your colleagues where many people felt that this minister has not been demolishing. “As a matter of fact, `he is not demolishing so he is not working’ – it is due process, my brother. “If you check the record, you will be surprised how long it took to reach that painful decision of having to demolish that (property). “As a matter of fact that all the regulations were there, that property is no longer owned, it has been reverted to government because it is very clear, check any C-of-O, you will see the conditions. “If there is a flagrant abuse and there are no efforts to correct that abuse, it reverts back to government.