A Nigerians are affected by ‘Traumatic Stress Disorder’ caused by our undeclared war with thousands killed and kidnapped and 2-4m IDPs and Leah Sharibu@16 from Dapchi. Family security is uppermost for Nigerians this inaugural day for the 2019-2023 political cycle. There was the needless brutal murder of Dr Kelvin Izevbekhai, Chemistry lecturer, shot at the Okada junction. I actually escaped by God’s grace an attack on March 17th 2018 at 3pm at Km 41 on the Ibadan Lagos Road. The insecurity has murdered sleep. Trust is gone. USAID estimates that Nigeria has lost $13b or N4.6trillion to Herders clashes with farmers but no costing for lost loved ones. What is the cost of the okada invasion, a political policy disaster? It is shameful that governors and others will today swear an Oath OF Office  they intend to immediately break. Many of their predecessor leaders at federal and state level did not pay salaries and pension, or promote staff as and when due. They sacked at will, destroying the dignity of labour and the security employment and causing a cancer of corruption-driven activities to replace lost income. This plunged extended families and also market commercial activities into financial insecurity leading to this cycle of bribery, corruption, violence and kidnapping.  The wealthy and secure also steal. From their podiums our governors survey needy suffering citizens who are filled with suspicions and fears. While we blame ISIS, Boko Haram and herders and marauders, we must blame the political failure to obey the Oath of Office. This has resulted in underpowering, underbudgeting and corruption – all self-inflicted wounds destroying Nigeria. We have 5,000MW but require 150,000Mw. We have the Apapa gridlock costing N5 trillion/year. Neighbouring countries import our goods. We have no shame, just gain and naira/dollar rain. Beyond flyovers, in 2019-2023, Governors should provide better transport and travel in different developmental directions. No ‘launching’ flyovers. Nigeria requires better projects. Some states have enough IGR to become first world countries but corruption prevents them. Beyond selfishness, citizens want interstate, interagency and federal/state cooperation for more useful projects like the Lagos Lekki bridge. Governors must capture ‘Internally Generated Ideas’, IGIs, and identify and strategise ministries to work with neighbouring states and institutions, NGOs and CSOs. Beyond Governance guest houses and weekly parties, a state should ensure its citizens benefit from expertise. Beyond a ‘Pothole Filling Department’, governors should build bridges and roads in a completely new direction in every state area annually.  Re-taring a road for 50 years is necessary, but not development. Beyond the state capital, governors must rotate State Executive Council meetings around the state to bring government to the people. Beyond personal arrogance, governors must be civil. Beyond personal agenda, governors must resurrect abandoned development plans made by selfless citizens and organisations and incorporate UN SDGs, Federal Government’s ERP and the South West DAWN project and Summits. Beyond selfishness Governors must embrace citizen empowering innovation through linkages with intellectual tertiary institutions -state, federal, private- for research and strategies needing little funding to empower citizens. State media must look beyond IGR to ‘Empowering Enlightenment Messaging’ promoting good practices, individuals and activities’ and breakthroughs. For example Ibadan has CRIN, FRIN, IITA, several others and UI which has 75 + department, 400+ professors and an army of research students. The state can also take its problems to the resident University for solution. Beyond the corruption and politics of Abandoned Projects, Governors must complete them to be productive and useful. Beyond headline clips, governors should read newspapers for honest evaluation and ideas for a brighter tomorrow. Increasingly traditional rulers are in the firing line of marauders. Why disarm the citizens only to have them slaughtered that very night? Post attack shows of force are meaningless in this our undeclared war. Our constitutional ‘No Go Areas’ are complemented by geographical NGAs, with orphans with no name or language growing up with no memory of homes now claimed by marauding herders. Unfortunately all Nigerians are traumatised at home, work or in transit or in government Ministry, Agency and Department, MAD. Who is clean from gateman to GM? Remember ‘clean’ is also transparency in choices, policy, performance, reporting. It used to be said that corruption is what you refuse to talk about on NTA! Governments must suppress the ‘need for greed’, corruption and bad policies causing government’s failure to provide regular livable wage salaries, single digit housing, transport loans, guaranteed pensions, quality healthcare, quality education and housing, a conducive trading/business environment, convert demands for 1 or 2 years rent in advance for lodging into monthly rent payments and combat DISCOdarkness -aka NEPAlessness. These force us all to become our own LGA and pension provider. Most pension offices and education ministries greedily and corruptly feed off the aged and the children– a sin. Yes, Nigerian police and troops have paid the supreme price with little compensation. Nigerians have also died in custody of compromised security agents with no justice or compensation. As government offices replace yesterday’s governor’s picture with today’s governor, will things change? Developmental progress is as simple as ABCDEFGG=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance. Here Immediately! Each Nigerian in the Presidency, NASS, Judiciary, and state from President to you can stop our ‘B&C’ immediately from this 2019-2023 inaugural day 29/5/2019 . It is merely takes making the ‘Avoid Bribery & Corruption Decision’ – personal, collective, corporate and government. What will 2019-2013 bring? We cannot survive more corruption.