LG electronics has commissioned a new free wash centre tagged “Life’s Good with LG Wash,” equipped with state of the art facilities to meet the laundry needs of people living around Mgboba community and its environs. The Wash centre is the second free laundry outlet is situated at the LG Fouani showroom on NTA road, Mgboba, Port Harcourt. It was launched by top management staff of LG Electronics West Africa operations. The event was attended by Mr. Hari Elluru, Head of Corporate Marketing Division, LG Electronics West Africa operations; Mr. Jiung Park, General Manager, Home Appliances Division, LG Electronics West Africa operations; Mr. Mahmoud Youssef, Branch Manager, Fouani Nigeria Limited Port-Harcourt; alongside other key staff, media and general public. It is important to note, that the pilot initiative of the Free-Wash CSR initiative was first launched in Ogba area of Lagos state just over a year ago, with the intention of replicating it across strategic locations in the country. The free wash centre is designed to operate on a daily basis in order to improve the living conditions as well as support the daily washing needs of people in the area. The Corporate Marketing Head LG Electronics, Mr. Hari Elluru in his opening remarks said, “The whole idea about the project is to encourage proper hygienic living amongst the people. It is instructive to note that this initiative is LG Electronics modest way of saying thank you to her esteemed consumers living within this community for their unwavering support and believe in our brand and most importantly for patronising us.” Also commenting at the occasion, General Manager, Home Appliances Division, LG Electronics West Africa operations, Mr. Jiung Park said, “This is want I truly call giving back to the society because the real beneficiaries of this project are directly the people, whom I believe will utilize it very well to make life better for them. You can be rest assured that life is always good with LG. The facility is fully equipped to operate optimally.”