TWO hotel workers were yesterday before the Ikeja Magistrates’ Court for allegedly stealing N6, 054, 000 from their employers. They are  Ibrahim Ologun, who was accused of stealing N5.9 million, and Dotun Akingbade, said to have stolen N154, 000. Ologun, who was arraigned before Magistrate I. A. Abina, was also accused of carting away some valuables. Prosecuting Sergeant Ishola Samuel said Ologun committed the offence in March 2018 at 10, Ajaba Street, off Ashipa Road, Ayobo, Lagos. He alleged that the defendant collected N1.7 million from the hotel and failed to remit the money into the company’s account. “The defendant also stole a generator valued at N900,000, a double door refrigerator, a plasma television, mattress and standing and ceiling fans all valued at N500,000,” he said. The prosecutor alleged that the defendant also stole N2.8 million meant for the supply of essential commodities to the hotel. “He converted the money to his use. The complainant and owner of the hotel, Mr. Adetokunbo Eboda, knew about the stolen money when the hotel’s account was audited,” he said. Samuel said the case was reported to the police and the defendant was arrested. Magistrate  Abina granted the defendant N300,000 bail with two sureties in the like sum and adjourned till June 10. Akingbade was arraigned before  Chief Magistrate A. A. Adetunji also in Ikeja Prosecuting Inspector Matthew Akhaloude said the defendant committed the offence in February 2018 at Dansoky Hotel, 3, Prince Ademola Adunola Street, Ijaiye, Ojokoro, Lagos. The defendant, he alleged, stole N154, 000 from the complainant, Prince Ademola Adunola. Akhaloude said the defendant conducted himself in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace by selling the wines of the hotel and diverting the money to his pocket. He said the defendant, who had barely spent six months in the employ of the complainant, also sold some of the hotel’s property, without the knowledge and consent of the owner. The prosecutor said attempts to recover the money from the defendant failed. Akingbade pleaded not guilty. Chief Magistrate Adetunji granted him N200, 000 bail with two sureties in the like sum. She said the sureties must be employed, provide evidence of two years tax payment to the Lagos State Government . Their addresses  will be verified and the sureties must be relations of the defendant. The case continues on May 31.