LAGOS State Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu has assured Lagosians that he will implement his campaign promises and break new grounds in good governance. He promised to hit the ground running, following his inauguration on Wednesday at Tafawa Balewa Squares, Onikan. Thanking Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, his campaign team, led by Tayo Ayinde, the party officers led by Chairman Tunde Balogun, and supporters, including Muslim members who are fasting, he noted that the governorship election went well. Noting that party members looked forward to the inauguration with excitement, Sanwo-Olu said as from Thursday, the new administration will begin to deliver dividends of democracy to Lagosians. The governor-elect spoke in English and Yoruba at the Lagos APC victory rally held at the Police College, Ikeja at the weekend. Party elders, chieftains and followers were in one accord at the event where the ace Fuji musician, Alhaji Wasiu Ayinde, entertained the crowd. At the ceremony, party leaders and campaign directors received certificates of service from Sanwo-Olu in recognition of their commitment to the party. The party officers include Balogun, Ayinde, Cardinal James Odumbaku, Alhaji Ganiyu Badmus, House of Representatives member Jimi Benson, Bolanle Akinyemi-Obe, Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya, Sesan Daini, and other elected local government chairmen. Sanwo-Olu, who stormed the venue around 11.48 am, gave a hint on the direction of his administration, saying that policies, programmes and projects would be dictated by the needs of the people. He promised to immediately tackle the challenges of flooding, traffic management, schools and hospitals, job creation and empowerment for artisans. He said his administration would not condone laziness, urging intended beneficiaries to develop their talents, interests and abilities. Turning to local government chairmen, Sanwo-Olu said they should strive to replicate at the grassroots the expected growth strides of the administration. Acknowledging refuse disposal as a major challenge, he said disposal bags would be evenly distributed to get the heap of refuse off the environment. He said the government would enlighten and mobilise churches and mosques to play a role in the dissemination of vital information on environmental sanitation and cleanliness. Ayinde, who thanked the party faithful, spoke on the efficacy of prayers, which worked well for him as the campaign manager because his team approached the assignment with determination and spiritual prayers. Noting that the campaigns were Herculean tasks, he said Sanwo-Olu lived to expectation as a sellable candidate. He said the flagbearer’s youthfulness and dynamism were captivating to the electorate. Ayinde thanked the campaign team members for their loyalty, saying the directors approached the tasks with dedication. He noted that Sanwo-Olu was appreciative of their individual and collective efforts.