Thousands of Badagry residents and tertiary institution students yesterday defied the heavy rain to protest the dilapidated  Lagos-Badagry Expressway. They described it as a road of anguish and pain. The Badagry correspondent of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) said the protesters blocked the  Badagry roundabout for hours earlier in the day. They stormed the roundabout with placards bearing inscriptions such as: “Fix Lagos-Badagry Expressway, our businesses are dying”; “Bad road, our pregnant women are having miscarriages”; “We are not at war, remove checkpoints on our road” and “We are losing man-hours.” Women Arise Initiative (WAI) President Joe Okei-Odumakin, who led the protest, said the road had become a route of anguish and pain. She said: “We are in the rain today not because we like it, but because we want to make some demands; we are moving from Badagry to Mile 2. “We are here because the Lagos/Badagry Expressway has continued to serve as a route of anguish and pain. The state of the road is deplorable. “We are seeing our economy ruined; we have seen women having still births. We have seen our road becoming a road to the hospital and mortuary. The time has come for us to rise up in unity. “The time has come for us to demand that the government should fix the Lagos/Badagry road. We are here to demand that the road that leads to the economic hub of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub-region be fixed. “We have endured this for a very long time. Tourism in Badagry is now at its lowest ebb. We know the concession started in 2009 and years after contract for the road was awarded, nothing serious has been done about it.” Gunuvi Rights Initiative of Nigeria (GRIN) Chairman Bokoh Oluwole said they were protesting because of the bad state of the road. “This is the first major international road in Nigeria, and the road is Trunk A. It is an international route, an international haulage route. This road serves industrial hubs, and the government generates a lot of income from the route. “This road construction began during the Babatunde Fashola administration and it has been on for over a decade. People are dying. At my bus stop, we lost two children recently because of the nature of the road. Some road users are sometimes compelled to ply one-way. “Those who go to Lagos to buy goods from Badagry now find it difficult to transport their wares without incurring losses’’. A commuter, Sesan Akingbade, said the Federal Government had forgotten   the road users, adding that its deplorable state was making life difficult for the public. Said he: “I work in Ikeja, so I go through Igbo-Elerin everyday. I spend over N1, 500 going to and returning from work and do over five hours in transit daily. It is gradually telling on my health. “It is very unfortunate that an international highway will be in such a state. “Any serious work on this road will take more than two years. The Federal Government should, therefore, begin work on the road in earnest, as a matter of urgency.” A commercial vehicle driver, Dele Ilori, said the road had become a death trap. The protesters marched to Ijanikin, where they were joined by students of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin.  Lagos State University (LASU) students joined at the Igbo-Elerin junction. The protest paralysed the expressway for over two hours. 