An Igbosere Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, on Tuesday sentenced a maid, Edeh Ngozi, who stole N22,104,000 worth of jewellery and luxury goods while hypnotised, to three years of community service. Mrs. M. O. Ope-Agbe convicted Ngozi, 22, following her plea of “guilty” to a two-count charge of conspiracy and stealing. She ordered the convict to carry out her sentence for three hours everyday in designated Lagos communities, for three years. “The sentence takes effect with immediate effect,” Magistrate Ope-Agbe said. The Maroko Police Division, Lekki, Lagos, arraigned Ngozi on March 14, on a charge marked: N/17/2019. Prosecuting Inspector Rosemary Ehimegbe said Ngozi, from Ebonyi State, committed the offence on March 11, at 16, Professor Kunmi Akingbehin Street, Lekki Phase I. Ehimegbe said Ngozi stole one Rolex wristwatch, AP wristwatch, gold wedding ring, neck chain, gold necklace, set of earrings, green crystal and diamond jewellery, three Sekunda wristwatches, two Michael bangles, a set of white gold necklaces, fresh water pearl, set of necklace and earrings, gold and silver bangles, all valued at N22,104,000, property of the complainant, Roy Oshinbolu. The offences, the prosecutor said, contravened sections 411 and 287 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015. Ngozi pleaded not guilty. Magistrate M.O. Ope-Agbe granted her N10million bail with one surety in the like sum. But in the course of the trial, Ngozi changed her plea to guilty. She told the court that she was hypnotised by two men in a taxi she boarded on her way to the market. She said the men cajoled her to go to her employer’s home, take all the jewellery that she could find and bring them. She said she was employed by the complainant on January 16, on a salary of N35,000. Ngozi said: “On March 11, 2019, I boarded a cab at the bus stop on my way to Jakande Market, Lekki. On the way, the two occupants inside the cab brought out a powdery substance and blew it in my face and I couldn’t get myself again. They commanded me to take them to my employer’s home where I packed all my employer’s jewellery and handed them over. They put me in the cab and drove off. On the way, they collected my phone and pushed me out. That was when I came to my senses.” She said she immediately raised the alarm and stopped a bus, which pursued the criminals, but they couldn’t catch up and the bus driver stopped. “That was when I went to the police and reported the incident. It is not my intention to steal my employer’s jewellery,” Ngozi said.