Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi  has pledged his administration’s for the take-off  of  three proposed Command Secondary Schools in the state. Speaking while receiving a delegation of the Army Education Corps from the Army Headquarters in Ado-Ekiti, Fayemi, represented by his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, described the establishment of the schools in Ekiti as a landmark achievement. The delegation led by Director of Personnel Headquarters, Army Headquarters, Maj.-Gen. Julius Oni, visited Isan, Ijero and Ikere,the three towns where the schools would be located -to assess their suitability or otherwise for the projects. Fayemi said: “As you are aware, education is the main industry of Ekiti State. Therefore, spirited efforts are on to ensure that Ekiti continues to be a leader and pivot in the education industry. “The schools will be sited at Isan- Ekiti, Ijero-Ekiti and Ikere-Ekiti for geographical spread representing the three senatorial districts in the state. “I am sure you have visited the entire temporary as well as the permanent sites. It is my hope that you found the sites suitable and acceptable for use. “Ekiti people are accommodating and hospitable and you will be welcome everywhere you go. Let me quickly assure you of the support of the government and good people of Ekiti State.” On his part, Oni disclosed that Fayemi had written a letter to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, requesting the establishment of the three command schools across the senatorial districts. Oni added that having visited the three locations and assessed the sites and available facilities, the panel would write a report to be submitted to Buratai for further action. He said: “We express our gratitude to Governor Fayemi for the warm reception accorded the team since Sunday. “A few weeks ago, there was a letter written to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, personally signed by the governor for establishment of three command schools in the three senatorial districts of the state. “The Chief of Army Staff places a high premium on the development of education. In fact, one of his vision is to enhance the development of education in areas where Army units and formations are established. “He quickly constituted a team to pay a visit to all the sites and equipment available for the take-off of the schools. “In the Army, we strive to attain a high education standard in our command secondary schools. We ensure that facilities, equipment and staff conform to a very high standard to ensure that a conducive atmosphere is created for teaching. “We will put up our report and submit to the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai, who will, in return, forward same to the state government.” The three schools are expected to commence academic activities in September when a new academic year takes off.