The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has kicked against the deployment of a Customs Strike Force with the power to intercept and effect cargo seizure in the ports. LCCI Director-General,  Muda Yusuf said the move by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) will hurt investment and further complicate the already difficult cargo clearing process. He said it will undermine the Ease of Doing Business policy of the Federal Government and negate the Presidential Executive Order on the streamlining of ports processes. He said: “Some of the implications and consequences are as follows: The directive confers vast discretionary powers on the Strike Force which makes the cargo clearing process vulnerable to arbitrariness and coercion which could undermine the integrity and credibility of the process. The deployment of the strike force to the ports suggests a distrust and lack of confidence in the resident customs officers who were deployed to the various commands by the Comptroller-General in the first place. “The appropriate thing to do in the circumstance is for the CG to replace these officers with trusted ones rather superimposing another set of customs operatives on the system.  This new deployment would make the entire process chaotic, cumbersome, costly and inefficient.  It could also create an additional credibility problem.” He said LCCI is concerned that over the past two years, the scanners at the Lagos Ports Complex have not worked.  The persistent dependence on physical examination for cargo releases has not only been laborious and arduous, it is also time wasting. “The Lagos Ports are the largest ports in the country handling over 1.5 million 20-foot containers equivalent (TEUs) annually. This underscores the enormity of the consequences of physical examination of containers for the efficacy of cargo clearing. It is incredibly detrimental to the cargo release process and the economy.  It is imperative for the Federal Government to expedite actions on the procurement of scanners for the ports in order to put an end to the physical examination of cargo and make the system technology driven. The LCCI submits that the deployment of the Strike Force to the ports should be reversed forthwith. Where the Comptroller-General does not trust the resident officers, they should be replaced with trusted ones rather than creating overlapping responsibilities and authorities which would further muddle an already arduous cargo clearing process.  Delays in the cargo clearing often results in high and avoidable demurrage to importers; high interest cost on funds used for import transactions, disruption of business processes including manufacturing activities, and many more.