In a recent report from influential US tech magazine, ZDNet, analysts note that there has been a price drop in LCD panels, and as such, issues related to “burn-in” – particularly in LG OLED TV displays – have once again been put under the microscope. Burn-in is a display issue in which certain aspects of an image shown on a TV screen – for example, a channel logo or a game status bar – are either not expressed properly, or remnants of that image remain on the screen, appearing longer, as though it is branded or embedded onto the display. This has been noted as one of the crucial flaws of OLED TV display technology. Along with added scrutiny to its own OLED displays, ZDNet notes that LG Display has a much broader ecosystem to be concerned about, with more than 15 manufacturers as members of LG’s “OLED Alliance.” As the world’s largest Liquid Crystal Display (LCD) maker, there is an even greater chance for burn-in to spread beyond LG Display’s own OLED TVs, but also to TVs of competing manufacturers that receive OLED display panels from LG Display. According to reports from market research firm, IHS Markit, there are currently a total of 15 companies manufacturing OLED TVs for the global market, including LG Electronics, Sony, Panasonic, Hisense, Philips and Bang & Olufsen. “One reason the burn-in caused by LG’s OLED is more noticeable is because, among the red, green and blue (RGB) light emitting colors that constitute OLED, blue pixels fade quickly as they have a relatively shorter lifespan,” ZDNet notes in its report. “Though LG may have short-term solutions to counteract this problem, these solutions are offset by the fact that the TV’s resolution and features, such as HDR, are taxing the TV’s need for more power, causing the blue pixels to eventually disappear.”  ZDNet’s recent commentary comes on the heels of several reports over the last few years related to burn-in issues. In August 2018, Canadian IT review website, RTINGS, announced in a YouTube Live video that through their testing, they noticed that burn-in on OLED TVs set in after as little as three months, following a 4,000-hour broadcast TV test. In addition, during SID Display Week 2018 held in Los Angeles, burn-in occurred on one of the LG OLED TVs on display, which was purchased only three weeks prior to the event. The burn-in issue has not been solely isolated to the US market. In May 2018, LG Electronics had to replace all 30 of its OLED TVs installed in the Terminal 2 lounge at South Korea’s Incheon International Airport. Due to burn-in issues, these TVs were replaced with LCD TVs after just four short months. Additionally, it was reported that even when the OLED televisions were powered off, a white solid line would appear on many of the screens. Although LG Electronics has taken a stance to reassure its customers that burn-in doesn’t easily occur in an ordinary TV viewing environment, more and more consumers have become vocal about their own experiences with burn-in. A quick search for “OLED Burn-in” on YouTube warrants a high volume of criticism from those who have experienced the issue first-hand, as well as a number of burn-in tests comparing Samsung’s QLED TV and OLED TV to show how the two displays differ on this very critical issue. While OLED TV manufacturers have introduced functions such as “pixel refreshers” – an algorithm designed to move fixed images slightly – as a means of combating burn-in, the majority opinion holds that these types of features are not a fundamental solution. As part of a technical measure to ensure OLED burn-in does not occur in a bright or static image, some companies have experienced errors in which the screen becomes excessively dim. Sony, for example, has noticed a “dimming down” phenomenon in some of its OLED TVs. Due to the characteristics of an OLED TV, resolving the burn-in issue is nearly impossible unless the display technology is fine-tuned.  “In general, a TV’s lifespan is between 7 to 10 years, so durability is very important,” an industry official said. “TV usage has increased over the years which has been met an increasing demand for high-quality images – specifically with the introduction of OTT and streaming services. Unless there is some resolution, the market will turn away from OLED if the burn-in crisis cannot be solved.” 