The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has released the withheld Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination results of 4, 536 candidates. The board stated that the results were released following the consideration of a committee that reviewed the results of 4, 760 candidates that were earlier withheld for multiple facial matches with different names during registration for the examination. JAMB’s Head of Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, broke the news in a statement on Friday in Abuja, the nation’s capital. He stated that the release became necessary following facial match recognition carried out by specialised software and Information Technology (IT) experts. “Following the consideration of the Committee on the 4,760 candidates whose results were withheld due to multiple facial matches with different names during the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME) registration exercise, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has released the results of 4,536 absolved of complication. “The release became necessary following facial match recognition carried out by specialized software and IT experts,” the statement said. He also said the board has released the UTME results of 231 candidates who sat for the examination at the Nigeria Navy Secondary School, Abeokuta, Ogun State. Benjamin said the board has, however, suspended the centre for “acts not acceptable to the board.” He said the results of 127 candidates would be subjected to further physical examination while those of 97 candidates established to have been involved in multiple registrations and other forms of infractions have been withheld. According to him, candidates whose results would be subjected to further physical examination would be contacted and must appear before an inspection team to clarify other likely areas of multiplicity. He said the 127 candidates have been grouped into zones for convenience and easy accessibility. “The board has also released the result of 231 candidates who sat for the examination at the Nigeria Navy Secondary School, Abeokuta, Ogun State from diligent investigation, it was discovered that all that transpired was not the fault of the candidates. However, the centre has been suspended for acts not acceptable by the Board. “Out of the number subjected for screening, the Board would subject the results of 127 candidates for further physical examination while the results of 97 candidates established to have been involved in multiple registration and other forms of infractions have their results withheld. “Those to be subjected to further physical examination would be contacted. They must appear before an inspection team to clarify other likely areas of multiplicity. The 127 have been grouped in zones for convenience and easy accessibility. “The candidates in South West would converge in Lagos at the West African Examination Council (WAEC) office, Yaba, Lagos, while those from Ibadan and Ekiti respectively are to converge at the JAMB office in Ibadan, Oyo State. “Those in the South East Zone are to converge in Owerri, Imo State, while those in the North East would be screened in Gombe JAMB Office, the North West would be held in Kaduna. Some candidates from North Central states such as Kwara would converge in Ilorin, while those from Plateau, Nasarawa and the Federal Capital Territory Abuja would converge at JAMB National Headquarters, Bwari, Abuja,” the statement added.