TO improve on its achievements in the last four years, the outgoing Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, has called on the ministry’s management staff and other stakeholders in the health sector to sustain the implementation of health policies. The minister specifically listed policies, such as the National Health Policy, National Strategic Health Development Plan1 and II and Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF) as some of the key policies that need to be sustained for the overall development of the nation’s health sector. Prof. Adewole said this at the valedictory management meeting and handover organised by the ministry in his honour, adding that before he was appointed, he  worked with the ministry for several years in various capacities, beginning from the late Prof. Ransome Kuti’s time. His appointment as a minister, he said, gave him the opportunity to sit in the center and drive the affairs of the sector directly. “For us, over last few years, we have done our bit. The health sector is a very challenging one, such that, one can never complete the assignment; the best one can do is to do one’s bit and leave. In the last four years, you supported us to develop the National Health Policy with the support from the former Minister of Health, Prof. Lambo. We also developed the National Strategic Health Development Plan II and now we are fortunate to be implementing the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund. “Over the years, governments put on policy without plan or the plan would come four or five years after the policy and when the policy or plan comes, there would be no money; but what is unique about this tenure is that, we are fortunate we have the policy, we have the plan and we have the money. That is what has become the ‘game changer’ in terms of health sector restructuring,” he said. The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Abdulaziz Mashi Abdullahi, commended Prof Adewole for his open-door policy and that when he assumed office with poor knowledge of health matters, the minister assisted him to understand the health sector quickly. Directors in the ministry praised Adewole and the Minister of State for Health, Osagie Enakhire, wishing them well in their future endeavours.