Food experts have advised owners of local fast food brands in the country to focus on the trend in consumers’ needs for the sustainability of their businesses. This was the fulcrum of a communiqué issued at the end of the first Food Entrepreneurs Round-table Summit organised by a food consulting firm, Food Doctors of Nigeria Limited (FDNL). The Chief Executive Officer, FDNL, Joseph Awesu, explained  that in recent times, the  fast foods business also known as Quick Service Restaurant(QSR), was facing tough  competition, while foreign brands operating alongside these local brands are excelling in the business. This, he said, necessitated the summit, aimed at ascertaining the challenges confronting the local brands and proffer workable solutions for them to remain in business. “We discovered that our local QSR brands are going out of business while foreign ones coming into Nigeria are doing well.  The fast food industry is currently experiencing a tough competition that only strategic and innovative QSR operator can survive.  Some chains that are perceived to be closing up are actually undergoing a cycle having experienced their climax at an early age.” The food experts  stated that consumers satisfaction, feedback resolution, lack of required skills and understanding of the business environment by either the owners or  management of a QSR chain,  timeliness, ease of ordering and quality of menu are some of the major challenges facing the business. The communiqué highlighted that franchise of the QSR chain could pose a threat to the sustainability of the business if not well planned and managed, adding that the ease of registration and visitation to NAFDAC Office has remained difficult challenges. It further pointed out that most fast food outlets are always paraded by various NAFDAC consultants thereby hindering the free flow of the business. Noting that the country’s population of over 200 million people, its young workfoce and income are potential factors for QSR business to strive on, the food experts resolved that there was need  for local brands to invest in their businesses, explore all marketing strategies necessary to sustain the business, staff motivation  and training of QSR operators. The summit, which held in Lagos recently, had in attendance, Managing Director of Nugata Consult, Jane Omojokun; Food Safety Auditor, O. Egbewole; Internet Marketing Expert,   Akinwole Olutola; representatives of NAFDAC and Chief Executive Officer Eat n Go,  Pat McMicheal, among others. 