To commemorate the 2019 Lafarge Global Health and Safety Days and as part of its Sustainability strategy 2030, Lafarge Africa, in partnership with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Lagos State Blood Transfusion Services and Rotary Club of Lagos, has delivered a health and safety sensitization programme for motorists. Lafarge Africa and FRSC urged motorists in Nigeria to ensure that they are aware of health and safety procedures as this would further reduce road accidents, even as the current data from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) show a marginal decline in the number of road accidents in the country. The Head of Safety, Health and Environment for Lafarge Africa, Mrs. Folake Odegbami alluded to this at the joint health and safety campaign programme held recently for members of the National Union of Road and Transport Workers (NURTW) at Ojota Motor Park in Lagos state. Odegbami stated that Lafarge’s commitment to Health and Safety informed the company’s decision to collaborate with critical organizations focused on improved safety across the country. According to the January 2019 Road Traffic Crash (RTC) Report by the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), a total of 540 fatalities occurred, while 3,383 were injured following 950 road traffic incidents across Nigeria in January 2019. It is estimated that 7,827 persons were involved in preventable accidents(although the figures indicated a decrease of 21 percent in fatalities). Compared to December 2018, the report showed a 14 percent decrease in crash incidents and 14 percent decrease in the number of people injured in the month under review. Responding to the reports, Odegbami stated:“Critical at this point is the issue of health and safety among motorists in Nigeria. Although our intervention today is targeted at commercial drivers, our message applies to both commercial and private vehicle drivers.” In his remark, the Deputy Corp Commander and Head of Operations, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Lagos State, Olalekan Morakinyo, commended Lafarge for taking the initiative to drivers at grassroots level, which helps to improve safer driving and saves lives. He encouraged participants to be deliberate in their actions and attitude towards safe and healthy living. The Branch Chairman at NURTW, Ojota Park, Apostle Olaoye Samuel, also lauded the company for being proactive in their approach to safety and urged members of the union to be law abiding. As part of activities marking the Global Health and Safety Days campaign, Lafarge Africa also held a voluntary blood donation exercise for employees in partnership with the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Services and the Rotary Club of Lagos. This is in recognition of the critical need and impact of blood donation for societal good. 