Barclays, Citigroup, JP Morgan, MUFG and Royal Bank of Scotland were yesterday fined 1.07 billion Euros (about $1.2 billion) by the European Union for rigging the multi-trillion dollar foreign exchange market. All the five banks have correspondent banking relationship with local banks in Nigeria. Speaking on the fines, the President, Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), Aminu Gwadabe, said the negative impact of the fines on the banks will also affect financial institutions that have correspondence banking relationship with them. “Yes, there are implications as all the indicted banks represent correspondence banking agents of many Nigerian banks that rely on them for the confirmation of their trade obligations abroad. Any wrong perception of the indicted banks will directly or indirectly affect our local banks’ positions,” Gwadabe said. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has set new rules  for banks planning to establish correspondent banking relationships with foreign lenders. The apex bank, in the Anti-Money Laundering/ Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) Policy and Procedure Manual insists that it will guard against establishing correspondent banking relationships with high risk foreign banks, such as shell banks, with correspondent banks that have historically allowed their institutions to be used for Money Laundering / Financing Terrorism (ML/FT). The European Commission said the banks formed two cartels to manipulate the spot foreign exchange market for 11 currencies, including the dollar, the euro and the pound. “These cartel decisions send a clear message that the Commission will not tolerate collusive behaviour in any sector of the financial markets,” European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said in a statement. The EU competition enforcer said most of the traders knew one another on a personal basis and set up chartrooms with names, such as “Essex Express ‘n the Jimmy”, because all of them, except “James”, lived in Essex and met on their train commute to London. 