A splinter group of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP), known as All Sectorial Units (ASU), has called on the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) and other pension paying bodies to immediately stop sending all deductions from the pension of its members as check-off dues to NUP. In a communique signed by ASU National Chairman and Secretary, Alhaji Rasaq Ope and Mr Franklin Erinle respectively, the pensioners, who identified themselves as pensioners from Federal parastatals and private sector companies, said their action was based on  the fact that they have formally and permanently severed all ties with NUP. Erinle explained that ASU are pensioners both under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) and Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), who have been operating under the NUP for many years. He said their relationship with NUP was voluntary and exit is also voluntary. The group, however, said consequent upon its disassociation with NUP, it has adopted the interim leadership of a newly approved pensioners body known as Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN) and pledged loyalty to its leadership. The communique reads: “A communiqué of the Executive Committees of former members of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners, All sectoral units issued after our meeting with representatives of NUP at the NCAA Pensioners Office, old Local Airport, Ikeja, Lagos on May 08, 2019. “We met and agreed thus: That henceforth, all ties with the Nigeria Union of Pensioners, National Headquarters both at Abuja and Ibadan are permanently severed. That, with immediate effect, no deductions from the pension of our members, as check-off dues, should go to the Nigeria Union of Pensioners. “That we adopt the interim leadership of the newly approved Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN) as our leaders, as we consider each and all the Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners present at today’s meeting as bona fide members of FEPPPAN. “We are grateful to the Minister of Labour and Employment for the judicious use of the discretionary powers conferred on him by the Trade Union Act 2004 to regroup the Nigeria Union of Pensioners. We also thank the Registrar of Trade Unions and the entire workforce of the ministry for their understanding and cooperation.”