For a week in April, a selected group of six journalists and five lawyers participated in the 2019 edition of the Bisi Alimi Foundation (BAF) Media and Justice Fellowship held at a hotel on Victoria Island, Lagos. The fellowship is in its third year. UK-based gay rights activist Alimi is Nigeria’s most visible homosexual, and BAF is a vehicle to “accelerate social acceptance of LGBT people in Nigeria.” LGBT stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. A participant said: “The fellowship had sessions involving Bisi Alimi himself, who shared his story of being gay and HIV positive; and two lawyers – a British lawyer who talked about the struggles of being an LGBT person in the UK and a Sri Lankan lawyer who talked about how India decriminalised gay rights. It also examined how the Same Sex Marriage Prohibition Act in Nigeria was passed by former President Goodluck Jonathan as a political tool to satisfy the masses.” According to the foundation, “The Media and Justice Fellowship is an initiative designed to train and support Nigerian journalists to report on LGBT issues in a balanced and fair way.”  The organisation campaigns for “the rights and dignity of LGBT people in Nigeria.” BAF is faced with daunting challenges because LGBT people in Nigeria are viewed unfavourably.  The disapproving, if not hostile, reaction to LGBT people in Nigeria is symbolised by the Same Sex Marriage Prohibition Bill 2013, signed into law by former President Goodluck Jonathan.  According to the law, which criminalised homosexuality, anyone in a same-sex marriage or union could face up to 14 years in prison. Also, it is illegal for anyone to operate or participate in gay clubs, societies and organisations, or to officiate, witness, abet or aid the solemnisation of same-sex marriage, which attracts a 10-year jail term. In addition, such gay partnerships concretised overseas are considered invalid in Nigeria.  The law states that “Only a marriage contract between a man and a woman shall be recognised in Nigeria.” Nigeria’s LGBT community has not known peace since the law came into effect. A report described what happened when the police raided a gay club:  ”In July 2017, at club Owode in Lagos, 70 men and boys were arrested by police. The area had been on alert after a spate of violence. According to Daniel Okoye, a paralegal helping LGBTQ people in Nigeria, the police saw the arrests as an easy way of extorting money. ”In the majority of these cases the police extort funds from them, knowing that any court case will out their sexuality,” says Okoye. “For most of them, their single wish is to pay and get out, and the police use it against them.” Blackmail, prejudice and persecution have forced members of the LGBT community to go underground, and even flee the country.  The point is that the anti-gay law hasn’t succeeded in preventing people of homosexual orientation from expressing their sexuality because they cannot behave otherwise. Central to the issue is the nature of homosexual desire in human beings. Is it biologically driven or socially acquired? Interestingly, there is reported evidence of homosexual behaviour in certain animals, including mammals, birds and fish. According to modern research, homosexuality relates to all sexual behaviour between animals of the same sex, that is to say, “copulation, genital stimulation, mating games and sexual display behaviour.” It is curious that there is a greater focus on males than females in this matter, for lesbians have relationships too. However, it is noteworthy that lesbians and gays are not the only victims of social intolerance in Nigeria. Bisexuals also suffer for their sexual orientation. A case in point is the experience of one Osaze Osayande, a Nigerian who was forced to leave the country because of his bisexuality. He was a member of a secret gay/bisexual group in Lagos. In December 2016, members of the group got information that the police had declared them wanted.  The following month, the police raided their rendezvous, the residence of one Samson Ndem. Osayande, who was living at Ndem’s place with some other members at the time, managed to escape arrest. He took refuge in the home of his cousin, who was also bisexual. At this point, Osayande experienced a higher level of stigmatisation. His parents disowned him, his family and friends rejected him. He became depressed.  He nearly lost his life in an incident; he was mobbed by antagonists because of his bisexuality. Then he took the decision to leave Nigeria in May 2017, for personal safety reasons. Lesbians, gays and bisexuals caught in the act attract mob justice in Nigeria. Two months after his exit, the police raided Ndem’s residence again and arrested several LGBT people. Osayande’s story shows that being LGBT is a huge burden in Nigeria. It is noteworthy that a 2017 survey indicated that the acceptance rate of lesbians, gays and bisexuals among Nigerians was on the rise. The survey, conducted by NOIPolls, an organisation for country specific polling services in West Africa, was commissioned by The Initiative for Equal Rights (TIERs), a non-profit organisation working to protect the rights of sexual minorities. The Social Perception Survey on Lesbian, Gays and Bisexual Rights report indicated a rise in family acceptance from 11 per cent in 2015 to 13 per cent in 2017. A 2015 survey conducted by NOIPolls had showed that a majority of adult Nigerians, 87 per cent, supported the anti-gay law. The 2013 survey had showed that 92 per cent supported the bill. According to NOIPoll’s 2017 findings, 39 per cent of Nigerians said LGBT people should be allowed to have access to public services, a 9 per cent increase from 30 per cent of respondents in 2015. The report highlighted the finding that 17 per cent of respondents answered in the affirmative when asked if they knew someone who was lesbian, gay or bisexual- a family member, friend, or someone within their locality. Participants in the survey were selected from the country’s six geo-political zones through a proportionate stratified random sample design. The survey method involved a random nationwide sampling of 2,000 respondents whose views were obtained through telephone interviews. In the final analysis, LGBT rights are still intensely controversial in the country, and LGBT people have no peace of mind. The trouble with sexuality in Nigeria is that the heterosexual imagination doesn’t accommodate the possibility of other orientations.