SO much has happened in the last two years due to the innovations and incentives put in place by the new Chairman of Adamawa State Board of Internal Revenue, Alhaji Hammanadama Njabari, in order to motivate the staff to put in more efforts in revenue generation. There is no disputing the fact that since his appointment as the Executive Chairman of the board, he has done tremendously well done in rejuvenating the board in the area of generating revenue that goes directly into the coffers of the state by enhancing the welfare of the staff as well as introducing enhanced salary package, that has been approved by the State House of Assembly and awaiting the assent of the governor. More importantly, he placed great emphasis on the training of the staff. For example, he approved in-service training for a lot of staff members to further their education with some pursuing degree courses and others going in for diploma and higher diploma certificates, etc. The revenue generation profile of the state has astronomical risen up due to the incentives he put in place, which also blocked loopholes hitherto used by some unscrupulous elements in the board in siphoning of the revenue generated by the board. He has also reinvigorated the board towards achieving the essence of its existence as a revenue generation organ of the government. This he did by ensuring that those saddled with the responsibility of collecting taxes and revenue live above board. In a discussion with this writer, the Chairman of the board said, when I assumed office last year, I found the board as an organisation with low activity, low morale and I have taken it upon myself in the last two years to put things in the right way and manner. I have planned everything according to available resources. According to him, tax collection method of the state has been reformed through initiation of some laudable methods such as private-sector investment and land ownership, which goes directly into government coffers. Alhaji Hammanadama Njabari has also discarded the old method of taxation that was riddled with corruption and inefficiency. It can be said that he has successfully transformed the Adamawa State Board of Internal Revenue so much that today, the people of the state are happy for it. Njabari believes only sustainable internally generated revenue can guarantee accelerated development as it would complement what the government gets from federal allocation. It is therefore in the light of this fundamental belief that he blocked all avenue (s) hitherto siphoned out. As a corporate entity that is charged with generating revenue for the government, the board under him introduced a dress code for all the staff so as to appear corporate and official. Today, both the male and female members wear suits. This has gone a long way in enhancing the image of the board.  In fact, it is important to stress the point, his appointment as the Chairman of the board is quite remarkable for the board as he has really changed the narrative within a span of two years. It is therefore a thing of joy in Adamawa State that there was a robust agency, that is assiduously working round the clock to see that there is substantial revenue in the kitty of the government. The Chairman is a square peg in a round hole in the art of generating revenue in order to complement what the state is getting from the federation allocation every month to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. He laid the foundation for sustainable revenue by exploring all avenues of revenue generation in the state.  