The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends that every country should have a doctor (physician) to patient ration of 1:600. However, according to recent reports in the press, quoting the country’s chief physician (Minister of Health), the doctor to patient ration in Nigeria is about 1:4000, considering that Nigeria’s population stands at about 200million. There are some reports also, allegedly quoting the Labour Minister, that Nigeria has no shortage of doctors. Based on these alleged official declarations, let us take a brief look at the facts. Based on the WHO recommendation above, it thus means that Nigeria needs about 330,000 doctors at a minimum to meets its needs. However, Nigeria has no fewer than 90,000 doctors and just about half of which are in active practice. According to the Health minister, 50 per cent of these are distributed around Lagos and Abuja axis. Yet, Nigeria ranks among the top 10 poorest healthcare systems and in the top end of worst human capital development in the world. The indexes are frightening. Despite these, doctors that are based in Nigeria are doing their best to meet the monumental challenges that they face each day. Even at this, the confidence of an average Nigeria in the health system is weak, thus necessitating the wealthy to seek healthcare services abroad. They spend over US$1 billion yearly abroad. That said, the topic for today is patients’ rights even in the midst of the weak healthcare system. Healthcare service providers are providing services to the consumers. Therefore, healthcare clients or patients are consumers too. These consumers fall within the Consumer Protection Act. The patients have rights, responsibilities, duties and privileges just as the service providers themselves. All of these are enshrined in Nigeria’s legal system. It’s disheartening though that clinical injuries that are negligently caused are also rising with lethal consequences for all concerned. But there is good news: patients are becoming more aware of their rights and healthcare providers are becoming more conscious of their responsibilities. The law forbids abuse. Patients should not abuse the legal provisions that exist to protect them to the detriment of the medical profession. With this in mind, I will set out the provision of the law that specifically relates to patients’ rights as stated in the National Health Act of 2014.  Just as for doctors, nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, psychologists and all healthcare professionals are subject to the law and not just the doctors alone. Apart from the code of conducts that regulates the respective healthcare professionals, which also provides safeguards for patients, consumers of healthcare service are also protected under the National Health Care Act of 2014. I have copied verbatim here, such, rights and safeguards under sections 23-28 of the National Healthcare Act 2014. Let us call these provisions our own Nigerian “Patients’ Bill of Rights.” Section 23 (1) every health care provider shall give user relevant information pertaining to his state of health and necessary treatment relating thereto including: (a) The user’s health status except in circumstances where there is substantial evidence that the disclosure of the users health status would be contrary to the best interests of the user; (b) The range of diagnostic procedures and treatment options generally available to the user; (c) The benefits, risks, costs and consequences generally associated with each option; and (d) The user’s right to refuse health services and explain the implications, risks, obligations of such refusal. (2) The health care provider concerned shall, where possible, inform the user in a language that the user understands and in a manner which takes into account the user’s level of literacy. According to Section 24, the federal ministry, every state ministry of health, every local government health authority and every private health care provider shall ensure that appropriate, adequate and comprehensive information is disseminated and displayed at facility level on the health services for which they are responsible, which shall include: (a) The types of health services available; (b) The organisation of health services; (c) Operating schedules and timetables of visits; (d) Procedures for laying complaints; and (e) The rights and duties of users and health care providers. According to Section 25, subject to applicable archiving legislation, the person in charge of a health establishment shall ensure that a health record containing such information as may be prescribed is created and available at that health establishment for every user of health services.  