•Treason is a serious crime; yet FG should deal with trouble makers through due process The word treason does not just stand as any seven-letter word in the English language. It carries with it huge semantic, political and social implications. In fact, the Oxford English Dictionary defines treason as, ‘the crime of betraying one’s country, especially by attempting to kill or overthrow the sovereign or government’. The punishment for treason differs from country to country. It ranges from long prison terms to the maximum – death. It is any government’s worst nightmare and no government takes it lightly even as mere rumour. The fact that any act of treason attracts the death penalty in most cases seems to make it a highly abhorred crime. It is in the light of this that concerned Nigerians are worried over the recent statement from the Federal Government alleging that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate at the last general elections, the former vice president of the federation, Atiku Abubakar “had activated plans to replicate the Venezuelan situation in Nigeria”. Earlier in the year, the Chief of Army staff, Lieutenant-General Tukur Buratai, had also accused the former vice president of a similar offence, alleging that the PDP presidential candidate was instigating the military to disobey the orders of the president during elections. Even though the PDP presidential candidate and his party have denied the allegations, we appeal for caution on both sides. This year marks the 20th anniversary of uninterrupted civilian democracy in a country with a chequered political history that saw the military taking a greater number of years in governance through coups and counter- coups. The country has not truly recovered from the impact of the military adventure in Nigerian politics. Treason is a grave crime not only against any government but against the people as democracy is supposed to be a government of the people by the people and for the people. Any discontent with the electoral process must be sorted out by the judiciary, which in a democracy is the third leg of the democratic tripod after the executive and the legislature. We applaud the fact that the PDP has taken its grievances to the election tribunal and hope that it sticks to that legal route of seeking redress. However, on the other hand, we are worried at the spate of allegations and accusations that can heat up the polity in a country that has a sordid political history, with post-election violence claiming lives and property. We urge the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to display leadership by being patient enough to gather evidence if it has any, and go the whole hog by following due process  to prosecute anyone caught in the web of treasonable felony. The interplay between the three arms of government must be allowed to flourish at all times if our democracy must mature and grow. No one should underestimate the impact of treason on any government. However, there is need for extreme caution so that allegations and counter-allegations do not develop some obstructive personalities of their own in a country with deeply polarised political interests. Words are too powerful and must be used with absolute caution if our democracy must grow. Differences in political parties must not be given the verve to divide the people. The survival of any democracy depends on the viability and nationalistic fervor displayed by its politicians. Both the government and opposition must display absolute loyalty and patriotism in ways that build rather than destroy our hard won democracy. The conduct and utterances of both the government and opposition must at all times inspire progress and national cohesion. Allegations and counter-allegations, including name calling can only build walls instead of bridges of unity and progress. The international community holds Nigeria in very high esteem, given its strategic position in Africa. It therefore follows also that the country’s politicians must begin to live up to the reputation by playing politics of dignity and respect. The government must be accommodating of opposing views without being too permissive in ways that can give room to political truancy, and neither should any act of treason by lightly handled but facts must drive any allegation. Treason is not a walk in the park.