Meristem Group has been adjudged the best forecasting research team in Nigeria, further demonstrating the underlying success points of the investment and wealth management group. At the awards organised by Focus Economics, Meristem Research was awarded the overall best forecaster in Nigeria in 2018 ahead of many global forecasting institutions. Also, for the second year running, Meristem Research won the award for best forecaster of Nigeria’s Exchange Rate, along with being the best in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) forecasting for the country. Focus Economics is a leading provider of economic analyses and forecasts for 130 countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Americas, as well as price forecasts for 30 key commodities. The company is supported by an extensive global network of analysts. Since its launch in 1999, Focus Economics has established a solid reputation as a reliable source for timely and accurate business intelligence. Head, Research Meristem Group Kemi Akinde said the awards show Meristem Group’s investment in adequate human and technological capabilities to ensure that the group provides timely and accurate information to its clients. According to her, being voted as the best overall research team is a confirmation of the importance that the Meristem Group places on research and analyses as a backbone of decision-making. “We are highly delighted to have won these awards. We know we place much emphasis and invest so much in our research capabilities and being confirmed by a global organisation is an exciting one for us,” Akinde said. She assured that Meristem will continue to adhere to best global practices to ensure that it continuously surpass the expectations of its clients and other stakeholders. The latest awards come on the heels of several awards won by various subsidiaries of Meristem. Meristem Stockbrokers Limited recently won the Best Stockbroking Firm award at the 2018 Banking and Financial Industry (BAFI) Awards organised by the BusinessDay Media Limited.   