President Muhammadu Buhari has restated his administration’s commitment to boost business and investment opportunities by reviving train and railway services, building roads and improve on the Power sector. The President spoke yesterday at the 59th annual general meeting (AGM)/Conference of National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) in Kaduna, with the theme: Regional Integration in Africa: Potentials for Growth and Expansion of Nigerian Businesses. President Buhari, who was represented by Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru, said his administration was re-strategising more effective ways to tackle security challenges in the country. The President assured the nation that the Federal Government would do everything possible to ease doing business in Nigeria and further make the country the investment destination for investors from all over the world. He added: “When this administration came on board in 2015, there were challenges of railway maintenance, power and other issues. Between 24 and 26 states could not pay their workers’ salary. That was the picture as at May 29, 2015. “But through God’s intervention, we continued work on over 300 roads that we met, while we awarded other 100 plus roads. Some are completed; some are ongoing. This is to ease transportation and movement of goods and services. Railway work is ongoing to move cargoes from one place to another; power is also improving. “We are improving the ease of doing business to attract investment, in which Kaduna State ranks number one, and Jigawa ranks number two. As a government, we don’t want a repeat of what happened in Angola and Venezuela. So, we are doing everything possible to diversify our economy.” The outgoing NACCIMA President Iyalode Alaba Lawson said the AGM/conference provided the leadership, members and other stakeholders of NACCIMA the opportunity to discuss in-depth issues about the chambers. She said: “The AGM/conference is an opportunity for us to share experiences as we work together to move the nation’s economy forward. “NACCIMA understands the importance of synergy between our associations and stakeholders in the local and international business environment; hence the conference is an avenue to foster better collaborations and viable networking opportunities for our entities.” 