A suspected traffic robber was  killed and two others were arrested during gun battles  in Okokomaiko on the outskirts of Lagos,  the police said yesterday. The police also arrested four cult suspects at Fadeyi on Ikorodu Road. In a statement, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP),  named Adigun Ganiyu, 26, and Justice Igboanusi, 29, as those arrested in the Okokomaiko incident at the weekend. Ganiyu, Elkana said,  was arrested  at Cassidy bus stop around 10:20pm by policemen from Okokomaiko Division during an operation. “One of the hoodlums was injured and he later died. Ganiyu  was arrested. The other gang members escaped. One double barrel gun with a live ammunition and two expended cartridges, as well as a motorcycle used by the hoodlums were recovered. “The suspect confessed that he and his accomplices are responsible for traffic robberies at Okokomaiko. He is helping investigators with information about his fleeing colleagues,” said Elkana. Igboanusi, who lives at 11, Jinadu Street, Ajangbadi, the  spokesman said, was arrested on Saturday night around Church bus stop, Ilemba Hausa, in  similar circumstance. He said a patrol team intercepted a gang operating with a motorcycle around 8:30pm, who were shooting sporadically. “Justice Igboanusi, 29, was arrested and a short double barrel gun with one live cartridge was recovered from him. Other gang members escaped. Investigation is on. The suspects will be arraigned,” Elkana said. In a related development, Rapid Response Squad  (RRS) operatives also arrested a suspected traffic robber, Emeka Ohiaeri, around Ikeja on Wednesday night. He was alleged to have snatched a phone from a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member. Ohiaeri was spotted by an RRS operative, who trailed him, recovered the phone and arrested him. The phone was said to have been handed over to the owner at the RRS headquarters last Thursday. He was reported to have told detectives that he had been stealing phones, bags and wallets since he arrived in Oshodi years ago. Ohiaeri allegedly confessed that he has a customer for the stolen phones. The suspect, it was learnt, has been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba. Confirming the cult suspects’ arrest, Elkana said efforts were on to get other members of the gang. The suspects, Yusuf Waziri, Mufutau Abogunde, Tega Michael and Alabi Sulaimon were arrested on Wednesday by policemen from Isheri Olofin Division around 8pm. It was learnt that two AK47 rifles, two Beretta guns and other ammunition were recovered from them. The suspected Eiye cultists were said to be part of a gang called ‘Ereko boys’, who had been on the police watch list. They have been transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS).