As a young girl, Laila Johnson Salami had a keen interest in politics and this dream made her study Politics and International Relations. The passion also gave birth to an empowerment initiative for young women called the We-Rise Initiative.
In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about her passion, clinching a Nigerian Centenary Award in the United Kingdom and recognised as a Youth Ambassador, challenges, lessons learnt working with charities and being inspired by two of her aunties, Mobola Johnson and Lola Shoneyin. LET’S start with some of the memorable moments as co-host of On the Couch with Folarin Falana aka Falz? I would say that the most memorable moments for me as co-host of ‘On the couch’ would definitely be the moments of research and discussions prior to our interviews. There was always something to laugh about and something new to learn from every time. Episode wise, I would say the best memories were created when we interviewed Olasubomi Okeowo! What has been your experience creating content and what inspired you? I moved back to Lagos two years ago with a degree in Politics and International Relations. Prior to my degree, I already knew I wanted to work in the media but with a high interest in politics. I felt it was a great course to study while dedicating a lot of time to part-time jobs and internships as a journalist. My experience creating content is a new one every time. It brings such an adrenalin rush to me because it’s my core passion. That being said, I have always been motivated to learn through my industry and I have lent my developing skills to several forms of media distribution including television, radio, writing, podcasting and voicing. This has led me to encompass a multimedia front and although it has been challenging at several points, it continues to make me a stronger and stronger journalist. What inspired the We-Rise initiative that you founded? My passion for the empowerment of young women stems from my personal experiences growing up as well as influence from great women around me who encouraged and empowered me and others around me. I had already founded an NGO prior to the We Rise Initiative called Our Vision NG, however, it was difficult to sustain at the time based on the model we were using. I wanted to downscale to ensure that I could maximize my potential and I felt motivated to create a new platform for young women that I could execute not only in Nigeria, but also in the United Kingdom as I lived there at the time. Although I have not gotten the We Rise Initiative to where it needs to be yet and what I’d like it to be, it is certainly a work in progress and the greatest blessing are the hardworking and consistent young women and men that have volunteered with us for years with a core belief in our vision and our mission. This second wave of inspiration definitely makes the We Rise Initiative mean more to me day by day. What are some of the memorable moments doing this? There have been so many. From the awe my late mother felt when I asked her to Chair the organization, to our first conference, Elevate Her, to our most recent event, Hear Me Too. Tell us about your experience working with several charities and the lessons learnt? It’s been a great experience! I guess my passion for charity began in secondary school where I was Head of Charity during my final year and we managed to raise over £25,000 for charities around the world. But I’ve learnt that there’s a huge difference of course between donors and social enterprises and the latter should be the focus of all organizations keying in to sustainable development. The largest social enterprise in the world, BRAC, definitely has an inspirational and enterprising model that I believe a lot of NGOs should look in to. However, whether your focus is donations or enterprise, charity is charity and charity is so important. We should all see giving back as a duty. What are some of the high points working as a Correspondent for the Commonwealth? Definitely the network that comes with it! My work at The Commonwealth led me to become a contributor to the Financial Times for example. Beyond that, the opportunity to story-tell on behalf of young Nigerians is an honor that I don’t take for granted. In 2014, you were given a Nigerian Centenary award in the United Kingdom and regarded as a Nigerian youth ambassador. What does that award mean to you? I was shocked when I got the email! 17 year old me? I was absolutely shocked. I didn’t know if it was a spam mail! But it means a lot to me. My passion for Nigeria knows no bounds and being recognized for the little things I try to do here and there definitely gave me the solid motivation I needed to continue. If not for that award, I may not have seen value in what I was doing at such a young age and what I am still doing. It led me to want to do more and generated a ripple effect that has determined my pathway in life. What are your views about young people and Nigerian politics today? We’re disempowered, deliberately. And it’s such a shame. Systemically, young Nigerians are kept out of the political system and therefore our futures are really and truly determined by people already living their own futures. I believe we just have to remain consistent in our approach, we have to keep on speaking up and breaking through the glass ceiling. Eventually, we’ll get there. It’s just difficult to trust the process but what other options do we have? Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? Definitely my mother, Diana Johnson. She taught me everything that I know today and if I can be just half of the woman that she was in her lifetime, I’ll feel fulfilled. Her passion for youth empowerment, women’s empowerment and humanity in its most genuine form resonate within me – I am definitely my mother’s daughter! She also encouraged me to be exactly who I am and if not for that encouragement, I doubt if I would have had the courage to be who I am today. What are things that you treasure most in life? Family, humanity and spirituality. I treasure the things that keep me grounded as a good grounding is a strong foundation for all else! If you had to advise young people today, what would you tell them? Regardless of societal expectations and unsolicited pressure, stay true to yourself. What is your definition of style? I strongly believe that style is representation-representing how you feel, what you stand for and who you are. The diversity of style is so important. Style is also influential in several dynamic ways. I guess it’s just hard to give one definition to a topic that comes with so many feelings! How would you describe our designers today? I would describe Nigerian designers as the future in the least cliché way. The whole world is looking to Nigeria’s fashion industry and finding ways to key in to our creativity and culture. Nigerian designers are some of the most hard-working citizens that we have on all levels. From our designers in Aba to our designers in premium concept retail stores, we have range, dynamics and so much culture that embodies us. Nigerian designers honestly just need more investment and we are in dire need of a strong design academy. The little things (in the grand scheme) can honestly go a long way for us. What are the other things that occupy your time? Being at the beach! I am a water baby – my mother always took my brother and I to the beach on weekends growing up and I guess that’s where my love began. Being able to get away sometimes and relax with minimal phone signal is so important to me. And enjoying the best of Lagos! What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the media? The media is absolutely shackled in Nigeria. Freedom of speech and expression is a no-no and it honestly just needs to end. Beyond that, our journalism standards need to be improved. It upsets me when I read headlines and articles from national news providers and there has been no editorial check before publishing! We need to step up our game and we also need to give young people more opportunities in the media. Why are our stories being told by people who hold a small demographic of the populace? Why are we constantly undermined and disempowered from being in a position to tell our stories? These are things that need to change. We also need to be braver! Tell us about hosting a show with Folarin Falana aka Falz? When Falz and I decided that we were going to interview presidential aspirants last year, we knew we were doing something that young Nigerians have never had the opportunity to do before. But we’ve opened that door now with the hope that more will follow suit. These are the little things that can make the greatest change. Tell us about the people you admire / role models? My mother is my greatest role model as I mentioned. She was the first feminist I ever knew, she was the bravest woman I also ever knew and she broke all barriers throughout her lifetime that hindered her. I’m also greatly inspired by two of my aunties – Lola Shoneyin and Mobola Johnson. Beyond my immediate relations, I deeply admire Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Oprah Winfrey and Ellen Degeneres. Lastly, Thomas Sankara is one of my greatest role models. I am heavily inspired by everyone I’ve mentioned. What are some of the things that you would not do in the name of fashion? I wouldn’t lose my comfort in the name of fashion! There are so many occasions where I have gone out in outfits I have been styled in that I don’t feel represent or depict me… and it’s not worth it. Comfort is always key! An outfit always looks better with confidence. What are the items that you treasure most in your wardrobe? My black high waisted trousers is something that I treasure a lot because I can wear them with almost anything. In addition, I also treasure my swimming costumes because I am always at the beach and definitely my 70s and 80s clothes that I have from my late mum. If you had to advise young people today, what would you tell them? My 2019 advice to young Nigerians will definitely be to keep on learning. We honestly need to continue to reorient our mindsets for the greater good and build a better society.