As the first tenure of the Buhari-led administration is winding down in less than three weeks, a chieftain of ruling All Progress Congress (APC) in Edo state, Stanley Osifo, has called on the president to do more in the area of intelligence in his second term to subdue the spate of insecurity that had plunged Nigeria into a dangerous adventure in the last few years. Speaking with The Nation in a telephone chat in Lagos on Saturday, Osifo said in the view of myriad of security challenges inherited by Buhari administration in 2015, the president has done his best and deserves commendations from Nigerians. The business mogul turned politician noted that the issue of security is a collective effort of every Nigerian to join hands with government to ensure a safe society. Osifo warned that politicization of security issue in Nigeria is one major problem that must be condemned by all Nigerians to let the nation off hooks of various degree of crimes that bedeviled the nation. The APC stalwart noted that given the reports that were issued by the military, one may not be far from truth that security challenge in Nigeria has a political undertone. Responding to the case of unemployment and poverty which many adjudged as factors responsible for proliferation of terrorist groups in the country, he opined that those factors should not be yardsticks to join band wagon and unleash mayhem on society. He urged Nigerian youths on collaborative efforts with government to harness opportunities waiting for them in an enabling environment which Buhari-led administration has been doing its best to provide. He tasked the president to look beyond party line for his cabinet members in second term and get the right persons for the right positions who will reflect the uprightness he is known for across the globe. “The issues of security challenge have always been in the country and most time politics usually comes in to create division among Nigerians along ethnic and religious considerations. But if we say we are Nigerians, why destroying our own country, why killing, kidnapping, banditry amongst other things that are happening in the country?” “So I advise Mr. President to endeavour do things differently in his second term from the way it has been done in the last four years,” he counseled. 