The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was established in 2,000 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration to resuscitate the hitherto neglected oil-rich region that has mainly sustained Nigeria’s economy. Some of the objectives for which the NDDC was established were to facilitate the rapid, even and sustainable development of the Niger Delta in a bid to transform it into a region that is economically prosperous, socially stable, ecologically regenerative and politically peaceful. Some of the commission’s core mandates include the formulation of policies and programmes for the development of the Niger Delta in the areas of transportation, health, employment, industrialisation, agriculture, housing and urban development, water supply, electricity and telecommunications. The mandates also include survey of the Niger Delta in order to ascertain measures necessary to promote its physical and socio-economic development, preparing master plans and schemes designed to promote the physical development of the Niger Delta region as well as assist the member states in the formulation and implementation of policies to ensure efficient management of resources. Niger Delta region comprises nine states of Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Edo, Ondo, Abia and Imo. The corporate headquarters of the NDDC is located at No. 167, Aba Road, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. On April 23, the Rivers State Internal Revenue Service (RIRS) sealed off the corporate headquarters of NDDC in Port Harcourt, over alleged N50 billion tax debts. As at the time of filing this report, the NDDC office is still sealed. The Chairman of RIRS, Adoage Norteh, insisted that the NDDC’s head office was sealed off because the commission refused to make its financial records available for audit. He said: “The place (NDDC’s corporate headquarters) is sealed off. We got a court order to seal off the place. We went to court and we stated that we were frustrated by the antics of NDDC’s officials. The commission was assessed last year, with officials of the agency admitting that NDDC was indebted to RIRS to the tune of N671 million, which they refused to pay. “When we sealed off the NDDC’s office last year, they then paid the debt. We told officials of the agency that we were going to audit their books, but since last year, they refused to allow us have access to their books. “The N50 billion that is being talked about is our best of judgment. That is the amount we assessed, because NDDC’s officials refused to open their books. If they have nothing to hide, why would they not show us their records? For many years, these people have refused to open their books.” Norteh also expressed optimism that the disagreement would soon be resolved. He said: “We are talking with them now. They are asking that we should come and do the audit and that whatever we come up with, they will pay. I am reluctant, because we have gone beyond that process. We have gotten a court order. “We would not have gone to court, if they had done the needful. If they said it is not N50 billion, they should tell us how much they awe. We are not interested in sentiments, we are interested in the records.” The Director, Corporate Affairs of NDDC, Charles Odili, however, declared that the commission was not owing RIRS to the tune of N50 billion. He said: “NDDC as a responsible corporate organisation, wishes to state clearly that it has not defaulted in meeting its tax obligations to RIRS. The commission is surprised that the state revenue agency is claiming an outstanding N50 billion. Our records show that this is not correct. It is rather curious that the RIRS would rush to seal the gates of the commission, disrupting activities at its headquarters, without any form of notification. “We have had cause to discuss our tax obligations with officials of the RIRS in the past and all the grey areas were resolved amicably. It is, therefore, an act of bad faith for the revenue agency to begin to take actions that impugn the reputation of an interventionist agency that is serving the people of the Niger Delta region. The commission has, as recently as January this year, settled its outstanding tax obligations to the RIRS. “We have cleared all Withholding Tax (WHT) on enterprises and Pay as You Earn (P.A.Y.E.) up to March, 2019, including arrears. If there is any other issue of outstanding tax obligation (underpayment), it will only come up after reconciliation. “Until then, we cannot establish or determine underpayment or overpayment. And our books are open for audit or reconciliation. It is not right for only one party to claim to have established that there is underpayment or overpayment. That can only come to play after a thorough audit exercise. “We can, under the circumstances, safely say that the RIRS came to seal off our premises without due process, as notice of non-compliance was neither issued nor served on NDDC, before the RIRS’ action.” Odili also called on RIRS to remove the sealing order at the main gate of the commission, to enable both parties to enter into a dialogue and resolve their differences. Responding, NDDC’s Director, Corporate Affairs also stated that there was no politics in the impasse involving the commission and RIRS. He said: “NDDC, as a responsible organisation, is mindful of its corporate social responsibilities and will, at all times, meet its legal financial obligations. This explains the stand of the commission on the issue at stake (sealing off of NDDC’s corporate headquarters in Port Harcourt). “The commission feels strongly that due process was not followed and thereby denying NDDC fair hearing, when the RIRS opted to surreptitiously procure an exparte order, instead of reaching for dialogue and peaceful resolution. The commission was also not served the court processes to enable it to defend itself. It is equally curious that the court order was obtained from a provincial division of the Rivers State High Court, sitting in Omoku. “As a Federal Government institution operating in Rivers State, the NDDC will always pursue the sacred creed of harmony and good conscience in its operational modalities.” Odili also gave an assurance that there were ongoing efforts to amicably resolve the matter, in the overall interest of the entire people of the Niger Delta. On April 29, Niger Delta women and youths peaceably protested in Port Harcourt against Governor Nyesom Wike’s administration’s sealing off of the corporate headquarters of the NDDC. Dressed in black, the protesters carried placards and banners with various inscriptions, even as they chanted anti-government songs. Some of the inscriptions on their placards and banners were: “N50 billion tax on NDDC is anti-people. We say no to it”, “NDDC is purely for development of Niger Delta region”, “Leave NDDC out of Rivers State politics”, “President Buhari, come and save us in Rivers”, “NDDC is touching lives, allow it be” and “PMB, save us from gangs and cultists” and “we say no to unnecessary political interference in the affairs of NDDC,” among others. In a chat with reporters, one of the protesters, Ronin Jaja, said the sealing off of NDDC’s corporate headquarters had brought untold hardship to most families in the Niger Delta region. Jaja said: “From the little businesses we do here, we are able to take care of our families. The development clock is ticking already; let no one delay the development of our region, because of politics.” Another protester, Degi Tekena, noted that the people of Bayelsa State were willing to host the NDDC’s corporate headquarters, if the government and people of Rivers State no longer needed the commission’s head office. Tekena said: “If Rivers State does not want to host NDDC again, please, we have a place for the commission in neighbouring Bayelsa State. “This is one of the commissions that have been living up to their expectations, especially in areas of training and retraining of our youths, creation of employment opportunities and other developmental programmes in the Niger Delta.” Tekena also stated that the parties should resolve the matter quickly to allow for smooth operations of NDDC, considering the commission’s numerous interventions in the Niger Delta region and its people.