From all fronts, the society is bedeviled by several social ills. They range from robbery, kidnapping, cybercrime, cultism, examination malpractices and teenage pregnancy. As efforts are being made by government at all levels and other stakeholders to deal with these social vices, MIKE ODIEGWU reports that in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, Girl Preneur 9ja (GP9ja), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) is particularly worried about teenage pregnancy. In the circumstances, it has organised skills acquisition programmes through which they will realise their potential and become fulfilled in life. Miss Ebiladei Mike is seven years old. At her age, she makes good bags and shoes. She is excited that she can make school bags and sandals for herself, her mother and her sister. With the resilient spirit of a true Ijaw girl, Ebiladei learnt her craft in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital in a skills acquisition programme organised by Girl Preneur 9ja (GP9ja), a non-governmental organization (NGO). “It was a rare opportunity that I took with both hands. I was not supposed to attend the programme. My elder sister brought the flier home and I decided to follow her to the venue of the training. “On getting there, Madam Cynthia Oye was surprised. She saw me and wondered what I came to do at the venue. We got talking and she allowed me to learn with others. I went through the list of skills and I chose shoes and bag-making”, the little Ebiladei said. Cynthia Oye provided the opportunity. She added GP9ja as part of programmes and activities of her consulting firm, Procot Management Concept (PMC). Oye, who is the Chief Executive Officer and Principal Consultant (PMC) said she founded GP9ja following her observations of the challenges women experience on the streets of Yenagoa. She lamented the vulnerability of the girl child and lack of opportunities for female children to live their dreams. She noted that the unsavoury situation had led to increasing cases of teenage pregnancies. “If one moves around Yenagoa, one will notice young girls who are expectant mothers. The unpleasant situation was a source of worry to me and I began to think about what to do in order to ameliorate the trend. Since I don’t have the capacity to do what the government and multinationals can do, I decided to come up with a model that can help take these girls out of the streets. “Our aim is to identify some of these girls and create an opportunity for them through which they could be empowered so as to help them to realise their potential and become fulfilled in life. The model is to make them resourceful and independent people by mentoring them to become business owners. “We all know that there is no job out there but most of them are endowed with skills. But what they lack is an opportunity to discover these skills. That opportunity is what we are providing,” she said. Niger Delta Report learnt that throughout the period of the training, the girls were enthusiastic so much so that they had to attend all sessions. They were full of joy as they participated in various responsibilities assigned to them. They demonstrated that Bayelsa women are not lazy but willing to maximise any opportunity provided for them. They chose from a wide range of skills provided by the organisers of the programme. The skills provided were fashion and design, bead-making, shoe making and making bags with ankara, make-up artistry, culinary arts, baking and confectionery. Oye said the beneficiaries were subjected to periodic examinations to underscore the seriousness of the programme. She also said they were taught essentials of business management, customer relations and book keeping. “Within two weeks; they could talk about business plan and customer service because we took our time to teach them about all those issues. They were in classes even on weekends,” she said. The CEO said she had been able to give free training to 45 girls, even as she noted that when the invitations were sent out, only interested girls within the age bracket of 15 to 22 years were requested to indicate interest. But she observed that some girls above 25 years pleaded to be allowed to benefit from the programme. “I was particularly impressed by the zeal displayed by that seven-year-old girl, Ebikadei Mike. She came with her elder sister and begged to be accommodated. I had some chat with her and decided to allow her in. She was punctual and ended up as one of the best in her class,” she said. Oye said following the success of the first edition of the training, she would like to expand the next edition so as to accommodate more people. She appealed to philanthropists, corporate organisations and multinationals and the government to support the project which empowers the girl child. “Everything we did was free. I had to do everything from my little resources and with little assistance from few people. It was taxing but each time I thought about the joy the participants derived from the programme, I felt fulfilled. We hope that more people will show keen interest in the programme. Then we will be able to provide more opportunities by expanding the programme,” she said. On what motivated her to embark on the gesture, she said: “We know that females are subjected to unwanted pregnancies, rapes and other social problems. If we have them engaged meaningfully, the level of cases will reduce. “So, being from Bayelsa State, I thought it wise to start from home and this is the first edition of the programme. It is totally free. If we regard the situation as appalling, then we should be able to proffer solutions to them. “Soon it will be a seasonal event. We hope, by God’s grace, that we will have four seasons every year. This season’s event is in Yenagoa. We don’t know where we will hold season two. It can be anywhere because we want to take the event to everywhere part of the country. “I am thrilled by the way the young ones have access to information these days. We didn’t go door-to-door. We had it on social media, website and flyers in few places. Initially, there was an age bracket of 15-22 but we saw people who are 23 and 25 then we decided to extend the age bracket”. The Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson visited the training centre. He commended Oye for her initiative and reiterated government’s commitment to create job opportunities for young people. He said the recent employment of 1,000 people into the state civil service and the huge investment it had made in the education sector was evidence of government’s deliberate efforts to secure the future of young people of Bayelsa. Iworiso-Markson expressed his joy that the girls acquired various skills which would transform their lives and make them self-reliant. He said the skills would keep the girls away from social vices and illicit conducts. He urged the girls to practice what they had learnt at the programme,  promising to provide some form of support to ensure they start up their own businesses immediately after the training programme. He said: “I am excited coming here and seeing what is happening. With programmes such as this, we will have a reduction in teenage pregnancy and social vices. I want to encourage you all to take this training serious. “You are the future of Bayelsa and the future millionaires if you are willing to work hard. This opportunity you have now will determine that. For us as government, we have been trying with the investment we are making in education and the recent employment of 1,000 people. I am sure most of you are aware of what we have done at St. Jude’s. “I want to thank the organisers of this programme. In my own little way, I will support these girls by providing little start-ups to enable them to begin their own businesses.” At the end of the training, Oye and her outfit prepared the beneficiaries. She organised a workshop with a theme, “Awakening the Entrepreneur in You”. Resource persons were invited to motivate the ladies and instill confidence in them. She also gave awards to the best among the participants and starter parks to the beneficiaries. Speaking at the workshop, the Business Development Manager, Yah-doubra More-rich Parker described the girl child as the vulnerable ones in the society, even as she said the programme brought out the potential in the girls. She stated that the girls would henceforth become independent and resourceful in the society. She also called on well-meaning individuals and corporate bodies to partner with GP9ja to train more girls. Also speaking, one of the guests, Mr. Jackresse Isang praised Oye and her team for their efforts. He appealed to the government, multinationals and other corporate organisations to get involved in the project in order to better the society. He said: “I want to thank them for giving these young women a wonderful opportunity. They have become entrepreneurs and good citizens of Bayelsa and Nigeria. I want to encourage us all to support effort such as this. There are a lot of people who need to be empowered. When you empower women or the girl child you are empowering the country and making us a great nation”. The beneficiaries commended Oye and her team. The little Ebikadei said: “I feel very happy. I chose bag and shoe making so that I can make bags for my sister and my mum. My mum will no longer buy school bags for me. I will make all my school bags now.” One Gbaranma Timinipre, who emerged winner as the best business planner thanked the Procot Management for helping them fulfill their dreams. But the Operation Manager, Miebi Great Tiedo urged them to cherish and practice all that they had learnt in their businesses.