President Muhammadu Buhari has said that his decision to retain cabinet Ministers in the last three and half years in spite of pressures from some quarters is because of their unique skill, strength and leadership qualities. The president made this known during a valedictory session of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday. He observed that the ministers, who exhibited spirit of teamwork, were more rational in making decisions aimed at tackling the numerous challenges facing the country. President Buhari described the cabinet members as “a reflection of the Nigeria we aspire to achieve.’’ He said “You will recall that when we started this journey, our country was facing numerous challenges. “We inherited a broken economy which eventually went into recession in the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2016. The situation was further compounded by insecurity and massive corruption. “Many would have given up. Indeed, many outside commentators said our situation was well nigh hopeless. However, we all came together and pushed forward to deliver our campaign promise to rescue our country from its parlous state. “Although we all had a common vision, we frequently had heated debates in this room on the best way to achieve our goals. These differing views are what made the decisions we took all the more rational. “It is this quality that made me retain my cabinet for the full term. Each of you in this room has a unique skill and strength. “We are a reflection of the Nigeria we aspire to achieve – A diverse but tolerant nation where no one is silenced and where every opinion should be heard and considered.’’ `I want you all to leave this meeting proud to have served your nation to the best of your ability. “You should be proud to have been part of the government that liberated the local governments previously under Boko Haram rule. “You should be proud to have contributed to our food security and economic diversification agenda which led to the revival of our rural agrarian economy
Continue on Page 2