Nigeria, as the largest producer of oil in Africa, and among the top 20 producers in the World, continues to enjoy a flourishing and promising oil and gas sector. But many of the senior level jobs within this sector are occupied by expatriates. This is due to the shortfall of local human capital expertise to take the available jobs. From the report published last year on Punch News Online, Oil and Gas Trainers Association of Nigeria (OGTAN) noted that there are attractive jobs in Nigeria’s oil and gas sector. However, the country lacks competent manpower to take up these jobs.  The group further explained that the dearth of indigenous manpower is the major reason why oil companies bring in experts. The President of OGTAN, Dr Mayowa Afe, in a discussion with a Punch News correspondent said “There is a gap between the university and the industry. The industry requires a minimum standard for graduates and if the university graduate doesn’t meet that requirement, he cannot be engaged in the sector. There are jobs in the oil and gas industry but there are very few competent Nigerians”. One may begin to wonder on the number of local institutions in Nigeria that are offering courses on Oil and Gas. Reports from MySchool.ng, a local online education news media, disclosed that only four local institutions in Nigeria offer courses on Petroleum Engineering. This suggests a level of shortfall on the availability of institutions to offer courses in the Oil and Gas sector. According to Energy Mix Report, “The Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry has developed, focusing on increasing indigenous participation in the industry. This is reflected through the Nigerian government initiative of increasing local contents. And also, in ensuring that indigenous companies have a greater part in developing oil and gas assets”. Consequently, the local content Act enacted on April 22nd 2010 provides a framework for increased participation of Nigerians in the Oil and Gas Sector. It also set a threshold for involvement of Nigerians in activities within the industry. This is through the utilization of local human and material resources and services in the upstream sector. Many Nigerians seeking educational degrees in Oil and Gas Management currently resort to varsities abroad for their studies. While those who cannot afford international education go for the highly competitive local varsities with limited slots offering these programmes. Many Universities in the UK, USA and some parts of Europe offer courses on Petroleum Engineering and Oil and Gas. However, tuition fees for these studies could go between GDP 15,000– GDP 25,000 or slightly more. This makes the accessibility limited to only those who can afford them.  Are Nigerians aware that they could bag a degree in Oil and Gas Management online? Availability for Nigerians to study for a Degree in Oil and Gas Management may be limited locally. However, there are other opportunities for Nigerians seeking for an internationally recognised degree in the field of Oil and Gas Management. Unicaf University is a pan-African institution, with established campuses and learning centres in 11 African countries. UNICAF offers undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes of top quality through online and blended study system. The UNICAF education system brings an ample opportunity for students in Nigeria seeking internationally recognised degrees. The Unicaf University MBA in Oil and Gas Management offers an insight into the energy sector. It also focuses on environmental issues and changing patterns of viability in exploration and development. The programme prepares graduates to operate effectively in executive positions within the oil and gas industry. Students can also study in their home country through the online study system of Unicaf University. They can still study for these degrees “on campus” in one of the campuses or Study Centres of Unicaf University in Africa. Some of the study centres of Unicaf University in Africa are available in Rwanda, Zambia or Malawi, among others. UNICAF’s Scholarship in Oil and Gas Management UNICAF offers partial scholarships to Nigerians seeking international education. More than USD 90 million worth of scholarships were already awarded to students across Africa. Also, about 20,000 students across Africa have benefited from UNICAF scholarships. Application for the Unicaf University MBA in Oil and Gas Management Candidates in Nigeria with interest in Unicaf University’s MBA in Oil and Gas Management can apply by visiting the application page here. Candidates should fill out the application form to express interest for the programme. Applicants will be contacted by a student adviser from Unicaf University within 48 hours of application. Josephine Chikwue (Educationist and Writer)