Oleh, the headquarters of Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State, over the weekend, found its way into the world’s hospitality map as one of the biggest hotels in the Niger Delta region of the country; Dantinajo Gold Resort, was officially inaugurated. Aside from holding a beacon for Oleh and its people, Dantinajo Gold Resort is also an example of how a national economy can be grown, according to former Nigerian President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who was the Chief launcher of the facility. Speaking about how and why the hotel was built in Oleh of all places, the owner of the investment, Daniel Elozino Omoyibo an Engineer, said his primary aim in building the facility was the economy and well fare of his kinsmen in Oleh. He reasoned that the first beneficiaries of the investment would be hundreds of young men and women from the immediate environment, who would find employment at the facility, then those who would continue to make livelihood from providing goods and services for the daily running of the place. “My main reason for putting up this edifice is to make sure I bring out the unemployed youths out there and empower them, reduce unemployment in Nigeria, Delta, Isoko and Oleh”, he said. Declaring that Dantinajo Gold Resort is the best in the oil-rich region, Omoyibo noted that the hotel boasts standard facilities, adding that it can compete with any world-class hotels in service rendering and management. He said: “The hotel has 85 rooms; 53 standard rooms, 12 suits and 20 apartments. Some of the facilities here are a swimming pool, a gym, a conference hall, a restaurant and a bar.” In addition to all the fine facilities the hotel boasts of, the residents were excited about the economic benefits the hotel is expected to provide for them in Oleh and many Isoko from other surrounding communities. Some of those who spoke at the event expressed how happy they were about the new hotel. They regarded it as an added ornament to the landscape of Isoko land, something that can be found in other more developed towns and cities, a thing to honour their homeland. One of the guests at the inauguration ceremony, Mr. Matthew Onoriode, commended Omoyibo for bringing “a dream to reality in Oleh”. According to him, many people in the same position as Omoyibo and with equivalent wealth would have failed to see the beauty and economic value such an investment could bring to a town such as Oleh. “This is very commendable and it should be emulated by other well-to-do Nigerians. Some other people would have thought building this kind of edifice in a town such as Oleh wouldn’t bring them as much returns as they would wish, but such people are mistaken because in no distant time, our brother will start counting his gains in multiple folds. “This is the first A-list hotel in this part of the world and one certain thing is that all visitors and fun-seekers in the whole of Isoko and some Urhobo communities will now find their ways here,” Onoriode said. The hotel facility, built on a massive space in the heart of the town, which also serves as the headquarters of the Delta South Senatorial District and host to the Law Faculty of the Delta State University (DELSU), is expected to serve an array of clientele, ranging from occasional visitors, to company employees working far away from home, to hosting big political meetings and other.