Despite government efforts to curb the smuggling of used and substandard tyres into the country and the associated dangers, it appears the trade has deferred all efforts and the tyres still enter the markets in their large numbers, reports Charles Okonji According to experts, used or substandard vehicle tyres portend great danger to the motoring public. Recent statistics from the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) indicate that between 2012 and 2017, tyres were responsible for 5,562 vehicle road crashes in the country. Further analysis of FRSC statistics showed that in 2016, there were 2,486 vehicles using about 10,024 used tyres. Out of this number, 39 percent of the tyres are not expired while 61 percent are expired. New tyres constituted 50 percent while, 35 percent are fairly used tyres with the remaining 15 percent as re-bore tyres, while 9 percent are complete worn out tyres as against 91 percent that are not complete worn-out. Common dangers of used or substandard vehicle tyres include tyre busts, puncture chances, worsened grip, brake weakness and increase chances of aquaplaning (hydroplaning by vehicle tyres). Irrespective of the above dangers, used and substandard vehicle tyres are still smuggled into the country in their droves every day and sold openly in the nation’s markets. As at 2018 Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), the federal agency that enforces product quality control in the country disclosed that only two Chinese nationals, Taolung Shen and Xu Yan sold over N5b worth of substandard tyre in the country within one year, indicating that business is lucrative to smugglers and at such, will not give in cheaply. SON says whether used or unsued, tyre expires five years from the date of manufacture. Adding that though most of these substandard tyres may not have been used, but they are classified as substandard once the tyre is five years old from the manufacturing date. SON says it destroyed used tyres worth over N50 million recently in Enugu alone. Speaking with The Nation, Director of Media and Publicity, SON, Bola Fasins says used tyres is costing the country huge economic loss as well indiscriminate loss of lives to the extent that government ignore but to put more stringent measures to curbing the illicit activity. He disclosed that SON’s concern is about the quality of products including tyres, lamenting that in terms of quality, there are no standards for used tyres. “The only kind of product in Nigeria for which you can talk about some criteria for used ones are auto-mobiles. But for tyres, there is no standard for used tyres. So every used tyres as far as we are concerned is substandard. “And by Nigerian import procedures they are contrabands, they are not things that concern us, you know at the point of entry because they are not even supposed to enter at all because they are contraband. They are not allowed to be imported, so if they come in and those who say maybe due to cross border may have some point, you know, I would rather say more to illegal entry point which are all over the place particularly the round borders, but our focus is on the quality of new tyres whether locally manufactured or imported,” he stressed. He has a word of advice to importers of such products. According to him, SON is now better positioned to deal with their products under the SON-CRAP regime and the offshore conformity assessment program. The program is aimed at checkmating them by confirming their quality status before importers of such products can even make payment for them from Nigeria. This according to him, is because the program will ensure that until a product certificate is issued confirming the quality status, it remain unacceptable in Nigeria, and you can’t even open a Form ‘N’ because a product certificate is needed to be attach to the form ‘N’ before any bank can open any letter of credit for for payment. “That is for imported ones. As at today, there is no local tyre manufacturing company in Nigeria. So what we have is beyond the issue of the certification offshore, we also put them all under our registration procedure. So, that is how we monitor what is in the market. “Like I said, we don’t have standard for used tyres, so there is no criteria for checking standard of used tyres, every used tyre is substandard. The reason is that tyres have specifications, tyres also have life span. From the day of manufacture, tyres cannot last beyond five years whether used or unused,” he disclosed. The SON director flayed the much touted ignorance of the motoring public on the dangers of used tyres, saying anyone that can afford a vehicle should equally afford new quality tyres. “I don’t subscribe to the issue of ignorance; anybody who can afford an auto-mobile can afford to buy new tyres. There is no vehicle that you are going to buy that will cost you nothing less than N800,000. Let me emphasise that for the worst kind of used-car or second-hand or third-hand car, you will be paying in hundreds of thousands. How much are new tyres, so there is no issue of ignorance, people do it knowing what they are doing. It is penny wise, pound foolish. Everybody who can afford an auto-mobile can afford new tyres,” he stated. On commercial vehicle operators, particularly those operating within the metropolis, he described the act as unfortunate. Saying that it is even more reggretable that they make use of third-hand tyres (those already discarded with the vulcaniser). “What that tells you is that used tyres are not only imported, they are also generated from within and that is where the education of stalk-holders needs to be improved upon. If you have used your new tyres and they have spent their life span, tear them off; don’t drop them for any vulcaniser because they will sell them off. It is our collective responsible that everyone of us ensure that those tyres cannot be recycled. So it is not only about importing them, we also generate used tyres from within,” he admitted. In his submission, the Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf noted on the contrary that the first problem is the capacity for enforcement. “I think that is the major issue because tyres are not small licenses. So, the country should have the will and the capacity to enforce, because enforcement is key to preventing the importation of used tyres. “The second point is the cost of new tyres. Majority are struggling to put their vehicles on the road whether personal vehicle or commercial, and when people struggle they look for what they can afford, even when it is very risky. You know, they want to manage than go for a new tyre. But when people don’t have much choice they fall back on used tyres, so if the disparity between the new and the used is too wide it could also create that kind of incentive, but what is most important way to curb the menace is effective enforcement.” The LCCI Bose stated that the government should find a way of bringing down the cost of new tyres, arguing that if the tariffs on the new tyres are too high, it should be brought low to encourage its patronage. “In fact there was a time they even put it on list of 41 items prohibited, I don’t know if they have removed it. That also creates problem for those who are in the business of importation of tyres. And in the medium to long term, we used to have Dunlop and Michelin that were producing tyres in Nigeria. “If they produce it here, I think perhaps it could be cheaper; it will benefit the economy even more than importing. So, those are the things I think are the causes and those are the things I think can be done to correct the situation,” he maintained. With the cost of new tyre ranging from N25,000 to as much as N87, 000 depending on the size and make of the tyre, majority have jettisoned the implication and settled for used tyres. Considering the dangers associated with the use of second-hand tyres, the government in 2016 placed a ban on the importation of the product into the country, as its position was that already used and expired tyres from other countries are partly responsible for the high rate of fatalities on Nigerian roads. However this outright ban resulted in massive smuggling of the product through the borders that are termed to be porous, while some their find their way through the Nigerian ports as the used tyres are stuffed in most imported vans, and they are grossly not declared as investigations revealed. Some vehicle owners that pleaded anonymity expressed that they prefer the patronage of used tyres instead of buying some of the new tyres that would likely cause crash for them as they do not trust most of these imported new tyres. On the contrary, most commercial operators and some car owners said that as long as the economy remains at its present state, that it will rather be impossible for them to buy new tyres because of its high prices. However, the absence of tyre manufacturers in Nigeria and the high cost of brand new imported tyres have been seen as the major reasons why the illicit business is gaining momentum. Though, some experts have argued that as long as the product is sold openly in the Nigerian market, smuggling of such product may not stop, hence advising that the government should put policies in place that prohibit display of such items on the streets and the markets, as well as enforcing it stictkly. Finding shows that the following are the trending prices of tyre across various markets in Lagos, where the product is massively consumed.  Used tyres are sold from between N4,500, N7,000, N9,500, to N17, 000 depending on the specification, while the brand new tyres are sold from N25,000 , N29, 000 or N32, 000 or N50, 000, N68,00, N78, 000 N85,000 and above. A tyre dealer, Mr. Tunde Ogunlade, blamed the use of second hand tyres on weak policy enforcement, adding that the government could do more by equipping all the enforcement agencies to properly push the substandard tyres out of the markek. Ogunlade lamented that the used tyre has been a threat to them that import brand new tyres, adding that if action is not urgently intensified, they may be thrown out of market. It could be recalled that Nigeria has continue to be ranked among the world’s highest market for fake and substandard products.  It is evidenced by the indiscriminate display of all sorts of poor quality goods and products littering the open markets, shops. The DG of SON, Mr. Osita Aboloma some time ago said; “Fake and substandard products chased away good products from the market, leading manufacturers to closing down and hundreds of thousands of Nigerians becoming jobless. We must understand that as we keep importing into Nigeria, jobs are created for the exporting countries. It is however, a job loss for Nigeria. “The SON is trying its best to make sure that goods in Nigeria are not substandard, and closures of industries are not malicious. Producers and dealers of fake and substandard goods do not pay taxes. They do not observe obey laws on the environment and labour. They engage slaves as labour and pay pittance to their employees. Such practices are detrimental to the development of an economy.  