The Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE) yesterday grounded activities at the Standards Orgainsation of Nigeria (SON’s) Abuja office over allegation of corruption, poor welfare and irregular promotion among others. Its Chairman, Federal Capital Territory Council (FCT),  Comrade Aliyu Maradun told reporters that the Director General of SON, Osita Aboloma, has been involved in contract scams including awarding multiple contracts and contract splitting. “We are aware of people who were employed here and under six months they were promoted more than five times and there are people here who have spent 20 years stagnated. “Some people are on secondment and have refused to go at the detriment of the people here who are supposed to occupy their positions,” he said. Comrade Aliyu urged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrput Practices Commission (ICPC) probe the operations of the organisation. The workers also sought an improved workers’ welfare and the implementation of the directive of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment on voluntarism. But the President, SON Branch, Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), Ayodele Folayan, dismissed the allegations of AUPCTRE, describing the protest as “uncalled for.” Folayan said there is an on-going process to resolve issues relating to welfare of workers and the protesters should return to the negotiating table for a solution. SON spokesman, Bola Fashina, said the protesters disregarded the directive of the Ministry of Labour on voluntarism and not SON. On promotion arrears, he said budgetary allocation has been made, adding that the cash provided has already been approved in the 2019 budget by the National Assembly. Fashina said SON is on the verge of developing a condition of service for the workers, saying the protesters needed to reconvene with the committee to discuss it.