Muslims across Nigeria has converged on Owo in Ondo state for a Jumat service in honour of the late Olowo of Owo kingdom, Oba Victor David Olagbegi-Olateru. It was held at the Central Mosque, Owo. Oba Olateru- Olagbegi’s death was officially announced on April 18 at 77. The crowded religious service, was led by the Chief Imam of Owo Kingdom, Chief Sheikh Ahmed Aladesawe, who described the departed monarch as a man of  honour, amiable, gentle and accommodating with good responsibility to Islamic  programmes despite the fact that he was a core Christian. He said” The late king is a king of honour blessed with glorious children. He accepted two major religions. “Though he was a Christian to the core, he never degraded Islam. In fact some of his children are Muslim.”. Aladesawe added that the ancient town witnessed tremendous development during his reign, saying the entire state would miss the late king’s generosity and immense roles. The Chief Imam prayed for the repose of the deceased. Speaking with reporters, Wife of Oba of Lagos, Olori Adenike Mariam Rilwan-Akinolu, a younger sister to the late monarch, described him as a kind loving brother loved by everybody. Olori Rilwan-Akinolu said she became worried when the news of the exit of late Olowo filtered in. “We just celebrated his 20th anniversary on the throne and not too long that we heard his death. l became worried because he was too kind to me and to everyone as well. He and my husband, Oba of Lagos had good rapport, always communicating because my brother taught my husband in Law school and they are both kings” she said. Similarly, a leader of Oba of Lagos delegation, Chief Ajayi Yusuf Akinlaja, stated that what he heard about the late king was highly commendable. “I knew him as our brother-in-law and I heard about his generosity to Owo Kingdom, the state and the southwest in general. “I know that Owo people will miss him a lot though traditionally king does not die but changes” he stated In his remarks, one of the foremost chiefs in the town, Chief Jamiu Afolabi  Ekungba,  said that the late monarch never allowed fame and popularity to weigh him down. Ekungba added that the king was very humble, accommodating and listening, saying that he would be missed by not only Owo people but Nigeria because he impacted many notable Nigerians whom he taught in Law school. He noted that Owo town had astonishing and rapid development during the reign of the king. Ekungba described Oba Olateru Olagbegi as a devout Christian of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) but that he saw himself as king to Owo people and not failing his expected roles in any of three major religions. “He would stand with Muslims, donate and contribute towards their development and as well respected the value of culture and traditions of Owo,” Ekungba said. According to him, the fear that is permeating the ancient town especially among the kingmaker is how to present somebody that will not be too low to qualities of the departed Monarch. The Caretaker Chairman of the local government area, Adebayo Benjamin explained that late Oba Olateru Olagbegi was fatherly, intelligent and a great man of honour. Oke prayed God to give the deceased family, Owo kingdom the fortitude to bear the loss.