Despite making it to the final of the men’s 4X200m at the just concluded IAAF World Relays Yokohama 2019 in Japan, Team Nigeria failed to make the men and women list of qualified relay teams for the 2019 IAAF World Athletics Championships holding in Doha, Qatar. From the 45 countries that featured in the IAAF World Relays, Nigeria women team failed to progress to the second stage of the 4X100m and 4X400m events while their male counterpart made it to the final of the 4x200m but were disqualified in the final round of the event. In the list of qualified teams released by the world athletics body yesterday, Ghana and South Africa are the two African teams that made it to Doha 2019. According to IAAF, at the end of two days of enthralling athletics action at the IAAF World Relays Yokohama 2019, the relay fields for the IAAF World Athletics Championships Doha 2019 have started to take shape. The World Relays has always existed to serve two main purposes: to trial innovative and exciting relay events, and to offer a qualifying opportunity for up-coming major championships. This year in Yokohama, 10 of the 16 World Championships spots in the men’s and women’s 4x100m and 4x400m were up for grabs, along with 12 of the 16 available spots in the mixed 4x400m. The remaining available places will be offered to the highest placed teams on the world lists at the end of the qualifying period on September 6, 2019. The qualified teams are in 4X100m; Men (Brazil, USA, Great Britain & Northern Ireland, China, France, Jamaica, Turkey, Italy, South Africa and Netherlands. Women (USA, Jamaica, Germany, Brazil, Italy, Australia, Ghana, Denmark, Trinidad and Tobago and Kazakhstan. For 4X400m, the teams are Men (Trinidad and Tobago, Jamaica, Belgium, Japan, Great Britain & Northern Ireland, South Africa, Australia, Italy, France and Czech Republic. Women (Poland, USA, Italy, Canada, Jamaica, Great Britain & Northern Ireland, Switzerland, France, Netherlands and Belgium. The qualified Mixed teams are USA, Canada, Kenya, Italy, Poland, Brazil, Germany, Belgium, Jamaica, France, Japan and Great Britain & Northern Ireland. 