Kenya’s long-distance runner Simon Cheprot was outstanding during the road race as he was a lifesaver to Kinrono Kipkeomi of Kenya which made him dazzle at the just concluded 7th Okpekpe 10 kilometre Road Race in Edo state, Nigeria. Cheprot, who finished in twelfth place, made a kind gesture as he stunned the large crowd at Okpekpe, when he would have finished in the sixth place but came across his Kenyan counterpart athlete who was struggling to make his way to the end then Cheprot stopped to help the athlete finish up the race. Former Governor of Edo state, Adams Oshiomhole, Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu and some other dignitaries present at the event recognised the full worth of the charming act made by the 25-year-old athlete as instant reward came his way which  totaled $10,000. Speaking to an overwhelmed Cheprot, he said: “The reason why I helped him was due to what I have learnt from my father and my pastor back in the days, so I never had to think it twice. I did this like he was my friend because last year I did the same, I make sure I do something good for my future and the tomorrow of my children too. “This was unbelievable to me because I didn’t know I will reach this stage of appreciation because I felt I was doing something that is normal but all the same I give glory to God. My plans for the money are to invest in the Church and my children’s future. Cheprot who have participated four consecutive times in this race and has twice represented Kenya at the IAAF World Half Marathon Championships and won a team gold medal in 2016. He also urged Nigerian athletes to continue striving hard and never relent in their struggle to become successful in life. Also speaking to Kenya’s Kinrono Kipkeomi who fell close to the finish line on what happened to him during the race, he said: “When I was in 7.5km we were a group of five guys, so I thought that when I get to 9km I will struggle to fight with those guys but eventually when I got to 9km/half, I fell near to the finish line. I was striving because I knew I was position six when three guys overtook me then I didn’t want them to pass me by. I saw that I was already in the eight position again. I was seeing the finish line but I couldn’t get to it so I was to crawl but immediately I saw a guy who came to help me finish up the race. I was going to surrender but the guy came to my rescue; it was so difficult. While appreciating the kind act of Cheprot, Kipkeomi said, “Simon is a good and caring guy after he helped me. Though I am surprised at his kind act because not all athletes will do that.