What started in the living room for Olajide Omotayo has now become a career for the 23-year-old table tennis star. The former Asoju Oba Cup champion is one of the few Nigeria athletes that grew through the ranks from a cadet through to senior level. 
Olajide Omotayo’s skills in table tennis was polished in Somolu, a suburb in Lagos State and from there he has worked his way into the Nigerian team starting as a cadet to becoming an integral member of the Nigerian team to major competitions in the world. The Italy-based star shares his romance with table tennis with OLALEKAN OKUSAN. When Olajide Omotayo made his first international appearance for Nigeria as a cadet at the 2008 International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) African Junior and cadet Championships in Alexandria, Egypt, little did the youngster know he was embarking on a journey of no return. And more than 10 years after his baptism in Egypt, Omotayo has established himself as an integral member of the Nigeria’s senior team to several international tournaments. Unranked at a time but now rated 136 in the world by ITTF, Omotayo recalled his romance with table tennis. “It was my elder sister that introduced me to table tennis,” began Omotayo. “She noticed the love I had for the sport and she started teaching me that at a stage our dining table in our living room in Somolu became our board and we were fond of playing against each other.” Despite the popularity of football in Lagos, Omotayo said his love for table tennis was unrivalled. “I also love football but my love for table tennis was far greater and beyond my father’s imagination. It was after my father noticed my interest in the sport and he began to tell me about his exploits in it. Unfortunately, his personal racket was inherited by my sister who started the sport before me,” he recalled. With the interest being fired up by his family, the young Omotayo was also looking up to the exploit of former national junior champion – Lanre Jegede who later introduced him to his first coach. “I was also looking up to Lanre Jegede who was then the national junior champion ad he was living in Somolu too and he took me to Coach Ismail Surmer. It was the support that I got from Jegede and my coach that really motivated me to continue the sport. “Later Jegede moved abroad and whenever he comes to Nigeria, he would devote time to teach me new things in the sport and provide equipment for me as well. At this point he has made the national team and he was also playing professionally in France. So I could say that Jegede really supported me as a young player,” he added. For the opportunities that table tennis has given to Omotayo, the 2018 African Championship semi-finalist said: “Table tennis has given me opportunities to travel, meet so many dignitaries and also made me popularly and I can conclude that table tennis is my life. I did not have any regret taking to the sport because table tennis has given me so much in life and it is a part of me now. “Without table tennis I would be incomplete. Apart from actually playing the game, I have learnt so many things which can help me in life. I have met so many different people and have been exposed to different cultures and also travelled all around the world.” Being one of the few fortunate Nigerian athletes who started representing Nigeria at major competition early in life and Omotayo admitted noted:“It is a great honour to me and I’m really grateful for where I am today and the opportunities that have been given to me by Nigeria. There are many good and talented players in Nigeria and so for me to have the opportunity to represent Nigeria means a lot to me and I will always strive to make my country proud and always do my best.” Omotayo would not forget in a hurry the experience at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia; as well as the scintillating outing at the African Championship in Mauritius which is the turning point of his career in recent times. He recalled:“The 2018 Commonwealth Games was one of the greatest experiences for me. It was a cherished silver medal for Nigeria and the most amazing part is that I was actually part of the team and I made an impact. I also got to play alongside Aruna Quadri and even played doubles with Segun Toriola. Also, table tennis was the first sport to fetch a medal for Nigeria at the Commonwealth Games, so that was a great achievement to be part of this great team. “Also the 2018 African Championship in Mauritius became my best performance so far because one month before the competition, I lost against an Egyptian in front of the Lagos fans at the Nigeria Open and I felt so bad about it but with  the help of my teammates I was able to get back on my feet and look ahead.” “We did very well in Mauritius to win the team event and also qualified to represent Africa at the 2019 World team Cup in Japan. Getting into the semifinal in the singles event was really shocking to so many people.” With a dream of making it to the top 50 in the world and also conquer Africa, Omotayo said: “My biggest dream is to get to the top 50 in the world and win African championships as well as African Top 16 Cup. I also want to qualify for the Olympic Games and other goals I set out to achieve in my career.” On whether table tennis is lucrative, Omotayo said: “Yes it is profitable if you can make it to the top level and also get sponsorships and endorsements. The sport is also evolving very fast and more companies are acknowledging the sport so I see a brighter future for table tennis.” Omotayo who now wears dreadlock said his decision to wear dreadlock was to look unique in the sport. He also believes he still has the capacity to play table tennis for more than two decades. “At 23, I am still seeing myself playing for another 20 years. After that I will see how I feel and I will take to coaching. I will continue to play depending on what my body allows. I think with my style I will be able to continue as I just have to always keep fit,” he admitted. Having seen better days in the sport, Omotayo said he has also been faced with some worst moment that nearly forced him to quit. “I was part of the trials for the 2015 African Games in Lagos and I was among the players who featured in three stages of the trials where I defeated most of the players except two of them. Unfortunately I did not make the team because of my last matches which I lost. So it was really a tough moment for me as a player because I was so closed to making it to Congo Brazzaville,” he said. Despite neck deep into table tennis, Omotayo will also want to get education:“I am planning to further my education immediately after the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games because I think getting education is very important for every athlete as this is what remains after retirement. I will continue playing table tennis professionally but I will not ignore my education at all,” he disclosed. With the aim of embracing coaching after retirement, Omotayo revealed his plans. “Once I stop playing professionally, I will like to go into coaching and give back to the community. I have learnt a lot from people who have coached me and from my own experience as a player. I intend to update my knowledge by attending coaching courses in order to garner the required knowledge.” Omotayo admitted that the feat achieved by his compatriot – Aruna Quadri has been the motivating factor for him. “Success inspires me a lot and my daily motivator is Aruna Quadri that sometimes before I sleep I end the day by watching some of his matches. Globally, he has placed Nigeria on the world map and I wish and pray that I follow his footstep. “Aruna Quadri has been inspiring me because I could remember vividly that three years ago I travelled to US where I played some tournaments and then I was without a club having stayed for years in Nigeria without any tournament. So I was in U.S in 2016 with the aim of dumping my dream of playing table tennis professionally to stay back in US and work to make some money. “While there in the U.S I was watching Aruna Quadri playing at the Rio Olympic Games and I realized that aside from him most of the top players are getting old and this will give young players the chance to make the team. So I called Aruna Quadri and he began to motivate me not to give up but continue to work harder. It was later I got a team in Italy where I am still playing now. But I must admit that Aruna Quadri has been a motivator to me and he is always there to inspire and motivate me,” he added. Narrating his drift to Europe, Omotayo said: “I met an Italian whose name is Luciano Esposito on Facebook. We chatted sometimes but never met until a few years later when he came to Nigeria and saw me play. I was about 15 at the time and he would constantly come to Nigeria for the next few years and practice with me or watch me play matches. Once I was 18 he then assisted me to move to Italy. This Italian has played a big role in my life as he stands as my father by regularly motivating me as well.” Before every crucial match, Omotayo psyche himself up with music. “Before any major match, I listen to music and I also take time to watch motivational videos that keep me positive and hungry. Mainly I listen to music and picture myself playing already. Also sometimes I go to YouTube and watch videos of my opponent so that I can get an idea of what I will face before the time and visualize what to do,” he said. Meanwhile, Omotayo is hoping that efforts would be put in place to raise the profile of table tennis in Nigeria. His favourite colour is black while rice and beans remain his best food. The former national junior champion relaxes by surfing the net and watching of movies.