The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has received a “Rotary Outstanding Invaluable Company Award” from Rotary International District 9110, Nigeria, one of the 535 Districts that make up Rotary International worldwide. Rotary International District 9110, Nigeria comprises more than 100 Rotary clubs with over 3000 professional men and women as members. The award was presented to the NSE at  the Rotary Friendship Night/Governor’s Magazine Launch/Awards, which hosted the Consular- General of Germany in Nigeria, Dr Stefan Traumann, as the guest speaker. In a notification letter signed by District Governor, Mr. Kola Sodipo, Rotary said the award was bestowed on NSE based on its “impactful corporate social responsibility projects in the areas of education, health, economic and youth empowerment, and environment, amongst others”, which Rotary considers invaluable in the service to humanity. Rotary indicated that NSE was found worthy of the award following the outcome of a committee of evaluators set up by Rotary District 9110, to look into corporate social responsibility projects and programmes of companies and their impacts  that are in sync with Rotary ideals of service, especially in Rotary’s six areas of focus. Rotary’s six areas of focus include peace and conflict prevention and resolution, disease prevention and treatment, water and sanitation, maternal and child health, basic education and literacy, and economic and community development. Head, Corporate Communications, NSE Mr. Olumide Orojimi lauded Rotary for the recognition. He reiterated the Exchange’s commitment to strengthening its engagements and deepening its impact through social interventions across Nigeria. According to him, NSE is changing the education outcomes of children in the North-East through the donation of Maisandari Alamderi Model Nursery and Primary School in Borno State. “Through our community interventions in health, education and financial literacy across the country, we will continue to play our part towards realising the Sustainable Development Goals, thereby increasing the chances of achieving a better and more sustainable future for all,” Orojimi said. He solicited support for the forthcoming edition of the NSE Corporate Challenge, a yearly, highly competitive and fun-filled five-kilometre walk, run and jog competition designed to raise awareness and funds to support cancer causes.  past editions,” Orojimi said. 