The 2018 Maltina Teacher of the Year (MTOY) champion, Mr Olasukanmi Opeifa, has described the award organised by the Nigerian Breweries PLc as one of the best and most inclusive awards in the world. Speaking at a press briefing to announce entries for 2019 MTOY at the Civic Centre Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday, Opeifa, an English teacher at the Government Day Secondary School, Lauri, Abuja, said since winning the award, a lot of recognition had come his way. “The MTOY is the biggest teacher prize in Nigeria. It is also the most inclusive of all teacher prizes in the world. I have received many awards since this award last year,” he said. NB PLC Corporate Affairs Director, Mrs Folasade Morgan, said public and private school teachers pan-Nigeria could register for the 2019 MTOY from Friday, May 17 and would expire July 12. Speaking on prizes for the winners, she said the best teacher would get a total of N6.5million – N500,000 for being a state champion; N1million for being the national winner; and N1 million that would be spread over five years as well as an overseas self development training. She said the winner’s school would also get a block of classrooms. First runner up would get N1 million; while the second runner up would get N750000. Both would also get N500,000 each as state champions. Mrs Morgan said the firm had also introduced an additional opportunity for more teachers who may not enter for the competition to win prizes if their former students nominate them on the firm’s online consumer engagement platform. “This year is symbolic. Being our fifth year of running this award, we have introduced the Consumer online engagement platform that our teachers are given a chance to participate. People can go online and nominate #thatoneteacher that made an impact on them and the more likes they  get they will win prizes for themselves and their teachers,”she said. Director, Basic and Secondary Education, Federal Ministry of Education (FME), Abuja, Dr Lami Amodu, praised NB PLC for sponsoring the award, adding that the government was in support of the award and would encourage teachers in Unity Schools and other public schools to apply.