ALL Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has urged political elite to refrain from statements that could heat up the polity. Speaking in in Makkah, Saudi Arabia, where he met President Muhammadu Buhari over dinner, Asiwaju Tinubu appealed to the leaders to avoid inflammatory statements that could undermine peaceful co-existence among the nation’s diverse communities. At the dinner with them were: the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar and Emir of Kazaure, Dr. Najib Hussaini Adamu. Speaking after the Iftar (fast breaking meal), the former Lagos governor urged all citizens to consider the enormity of challenges facing the nation and support the President. According to him, President Buhari should be supported to succeed in the quest of solving the nation’s prpblems and staibilising the polity. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, quoted Tinubu as saying: “The President worked hard and will continue to do so to ensure peace and stability in the country, which are important for the economy to make progress. These are the key pegs of his agenda. Let us all come together to support him. The statement said that the APC leaders counselled Nigerians to disregard the provocative statements being made by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he was quoted as saying, “is reputed for ‘saucy and distractive statements’, Nigerians should not to be angry with the opposition party, but assist them to overcome their ‘colossal defeat’ in the February 2019 elections.” “Don’t blame them. They are handicapped by the traumatic feelings of the colossal loss of the election. You should help them to manage the trauma.” Tinubu commended President Buhari for recognising June 12 as Democracy Day. Sultan Abubakar pledged his support to the success of the President’s administration. The Sultan led prayers for President Buhari’s second term in office, and for the nation to overcome current challenges. Other guests at the Iftar dinner were: Nigerian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Justice Isa Dodo, Malam Mamman Daura, Isma’ila Isa, Mr. Wale Tinubu and Mr Hakeem P. Fahm, the Commissioner of Science & Technology, Lagos State.