There is fear that except the national leadership of All Progressives Congress moves fast to resolve the festering crisis within its Ondo State chapter, the party may be threatened in future elections, reports Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan THE crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State has deepened as stakeholders within the ruling party continue to haul brickbats at one another over the reported querying and suspension of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC over allegations of anti-party activities during the last general elections in the state. According to party sources who spoke to The Nation on the raging crisis on condition of anonymity, Akeredolu is being accused of using state and party machineries to support the aspirations of some National Assembly candidates who contested the February National Assembly Elections on the platform of the Action Alliance (AA) in some parts of the state. The Nation gathered that the reported suspension of the governor is not unconnected with the hordes of petitions received from numerous chieftains of the party in the state accusing Akeredolu of dumping the APC candidates in the affected areas and supporting the AA candidates as part of his camp’s protest against the alleged imposition of some National Assembly candidates by the national leadership of the party contrary to the desires of the governor. Trouble started between the governor and the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC when the party decided to give automatic tickets to the three senators in the state to seek re-elections on its platform. Akeredolu, who had been at loggerheads with one of the beneficiaries, Senator Ajayi Borrofice, protested and insisted that primary elections be held, to determine who the APC candidates should be in the elections in the state.  Suspended, unaware After the general elections, the NWC of the APC reportedly communicated Akeredolu’s suspension to him following a query earlier issued him by the national leadership of the ruling party, urging him to defend allegations of anti-party activities leveled against him by some prominent members of the party across the state. Party sources told The Nation that scores of petitions were received by the NWC from members of the APC in the state on the matter. Reports claim the governor was told in clear terms that he will remain on suspension from the party for engaging in anti-party activities until a decision is taken on whether to expel him from the ruling party or have him punished in other ways as allowed by the constitution of the party. While the party is yet to make an official statement confirming the reports, it has also failed to issue a statement debunking the reports. Early last month, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Isa-Onilu, after the meeting presided over by Oshiomhole, the APC announced that Akeredolu’s anti-party activities “greatly affected the fortunes of its candidates in the recently conducted Presidential and National Assembly elections in the state.” Isa-Onilu, while speaking to reporters, also confirmed that a query had been sent to Akeredolu based on the directive of the NWC. “Yes, it has been done. The query has been sent to him according to the NWC’s resolution,” he said, while adding that he couldn’t tell whether the governor had responded to the query at the time or not. “It is not to my knowledge whether he has replied the query. You know that it is not my department that handles that particular assignment. I am not the one to receive his reply if he has done so. But I know that a query has been dispatched to him,” he said. However, Segun Ajiboye, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, while insisting that reports of the suspension are untrue, said his boss has yet to receive any query from the party’s National Working Committee. “As far as we are concerned, it is a rumour. The governor did not receive any query. The matter itself is an internal affair of the party which will be handled by the party.” Meanwhile, checks at the secretariat of the party revealed that the APC’s NWC may had on the first day of March, taken the decision to issue a query to the governor following its conclusion that Akeredolu has some explanations to make over some of his activities during the last general elections in the state as alleged in some of the petitions received by the party against him.  Unending spats Recently, Otito Atikase, Senior Special Assistant to Governor Akeredolu on Political Affair’s, re-ignited the face-off in the embattled state chapter of the APC when he accused the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, and the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, of being behind the travails of the governor in the party. According to him, some forces are bent on working against Akeredolu at all cost. “Akeredolu is a principled man who does not play politics with anything goes. “He will not allow anything that is not right to be done. Tinubu and Oshiomhole should not rule the party for their expansionist and narrow agenda. All I can see is the aftermath of the defeat Tinubu suffered when he sponsored Alliance for Democracy, AD, against Akeredolu in 2016.What disciplinary action did the party put in place? Oshiomhole, on the other hand, wanted his candidate to be picked after him in Edo but Akeredolu supported the man on the seat-Obaseki. Adams was very angry, so he became Chairman of the party to witch-hunt our governor. All I know is that Ondo people will determine who governs them. The God who brought Akeredolu to governance is not dead but reigns supreme over them,” Atikase said. But Bola Ilori, a chieftain of the party, accused Governor Akeredolu, of being the “spanner in the cog of wheel” of peace in the party. The former Commissioner for Regional Integration in Osun State said Akeredolu’s vengefulness and uncooperative attitude are the root causes of the lingering disunity and disharmony within the state chapter of the APC. “It was well reported on national headlines that Akeredolu organised an attack on me at the venue of an official government assignment in Akure. We were to go to court, but some elders of the party, led by Chief Bisi Akande, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Pius Akinyelure and others, intervened. They appealed to all aggrieved against the gubernatorial election processes to drop all further agitation and return to the party and embrace unity. “I also wish to place on the record that, as the Director General of the Alliance for Democracy campaigns in 2016, I don’t have any record of funding received from Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola or Senator Ajayi Boroffice for the AD. I dare Akeredolu and his team to come up with such fact. Let it be noted that neither Asiwaju Tinubu nor Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola directed us to the AD nor funded the party. “They did not campaign for the party to the best of my record, also. If any of Akeredolu minions is in possession of substantive evidence against any of our leaders let such fellow come forward with it or forever keep their peace. We, as adults have rights to our independent actions and Asiwaju never encourage sycophancy, he promotes robust intellectual discuss and don’t see dissent as a crime, yet we voluntarily hold him in high esteem,” Ilori countered.  Fresh trouble Sadly, efforts to resolve the differences among the chieftains of the party appear not to be yielding fruits. Instead, a fresh face-off recently erupted between the camps of Governor Akeredolu and Senator Borrofice over a petition filed against the victory of the Senator at the National Assembly Election last February. As we speak, some aggrieved members of the party have ruled out reconciliation with the governor, accusing him of still working against the party. Specifically, Boroffice recently accused Akeredolu of instigating a petition against him at the election tribunal. In a statement by his Press Secretary, Kayode Fakuyi, the Senator claimed the governor’s loyalist, Dr. Tunji Abayomi, sponsored a petition against him at the Election Petition Tribunal as the candidate of the APC, in the last election in the state. He also insisted that Akeredolu was in the know of the said petition. The statement was in response to an earlier claim by one of the governor’s aides that Akeredolu intervened on behalf of the APC and Boroffice by asking the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN), to withdraw the petition it submitted to the tribunal over the absence of its logo on the ballot paper. The petition was subsequently withdrawn to save Borrofice’s mandate. But Fakuyi said: “The Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) did not actually file petition against INEC and Boroffice. It was the senatorial candidate of Action Alliance (AA) for Ondo North, Mr. Tunji Abayomi, who sponsored the case on behalf of MPN without the authorisation of the national leadership of MPN. “Instructively, Mr. Tunji Abayomi of the Action Alliance could not have sponsored the case without the support and nod of his political leader, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. From the above-stated facts, it is clear Governor Rotimi Akeredolu did not play any such role like role of arbiter in the resolution of the MPN to discontinue a case that was initiated and instituted on its behalf without its authorisation.”  Still a divided House As part of the effort to resolve the crisis before the last general election, a Peace and Reconciliation Committee was inaugurated by the party in January. Speaking during the inauguration of the 15 man committee, Adetimehin had said the committee was put in place to resolve all the crises within the party ahead of the election. He also charged the committee to draw from their political experience to ensure that every aggrieved member of the party is pacified. “You have been carefully selected. I charge you to represent the party well and justify the confidence reposed in you. You are not going to judge anyone but write and submit a report to us based on what you meet on the field,” he said back then. He urged the committee, which was decentralised into senatorial zones, to submit its report to the state governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, within the next one week. But it appears nothing good came out of the assignment of the peace committee. Currently, a number of other leading figures of the APC in Ondo State, including former chairman of the party, Isaac Kekemeke, a former Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, as well as a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bamidele Baderinwa, are currently at loggerheads with the governor and his people. Reliable party sources said most of the aggrieved members are not ready for the reconciliation. When contacted, the Chairman of the party in the state, Chief Ade Adetimehin, said stories of crises and disagreements in the party are being sponsored by enemies of the party. According to him, before, during and after the elections, the party was and remained united. “I want to tell you that there is no crisis in our party. We remain one and that is why we are doing great in the state. The APC in Ondo State is moving forward and we have no problem.” But a group within the state chapter of the party disagrees with Adetimehin. According to the Mandate Group, the crisis currently troubling the APC in Ondo State is capable of affecting the chances of the party in the forthcoming gubernatorial election and as such, should promptly be looked into by the national leadership of the ruling party. The group also wants the state leadership of the party sacked. The group, which has been complaining that Governor Akeredolu was working against the interest of the party said Akeredolu and the state party chairman actually worked for the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar in the election, attributing the PDP victory in the state to the anti-party activities carried out by the governor. Addressing newsmen at the APC national secretariat, the group’s Publicity Secretary, Comrade Olugbenga Bojuwomi, said they have evidence that Akeredolu did not vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all APC candidates in the Feb. 23 Presidential and National Assembly Elections. The aggrieved party members also blamed the governor and the leadership of the party in the state for the disunity within the party in the state.