The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi,  has described tourism as one of the authentic platforms through which Nigeria can showcase its rich culture to the globe. He disclosed that he was ready to partner any government or organisation to promote Nigeria’s tourism sector, adding that despite security challenges stakeholders in tourism sector should project Nigeria in good light to the world. Oba Ogunwusi, who spoke in his palace at the weekend, when  members of National Association of Tour Operators (NATOP) who held their annual general meeting at Ife, paid him a courtesy visit, urged tour operators to take queue from the fact that no nation is perfect and allow charity to begin at home by projecting Nigeria in good light to the world. “Let us use our mouths to confess positivity about our country. Once we do that, then we are in real practice of tourism promotion. Let us make lemonade out of lemon. Use your practice to influence government policies that will engender development of the country. “There is no country that is perfect. But, every nation manages its imperfection by publicising less of its negative side. South Africa for instance relies strongly on tourism not even mining for its earnings despite its crime rate. Johannes Burg is one of the cities with highest crime rates in the world,” he said. He added that Nigeria has one of the richest beaches in the world with no major tourist site in operation there. Director-General National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe who was part of the delegation to the Ooni’s palace, appealed to the royal majesty to endorse Osun State as host of next year’s National Festival for Arts and Culture (NAFEST) after this year’s edition to be hosted by Edo state. This, he said, will give the whole world the opportunity to savour the rich culture of Osun and the tourism facilities such as Ife Grand Resorts and Leisure the Ooni has put in place in the state. Otunba also appealed to the traditional ruler to influence government in the construction of a rail line from Lagos to Ile Ife to facilitate easier and cheaper access by tourists from Lagos to Ile Ife.