Those in the export business are looking inwards, cultivating safe and high-quality commodities to reduce or, possibly, halt the rejection of export-bound products at the international market, DANIEL ESSIET reports. The Managing Director, Vintage Farms and Products, Chief Mike Elechi, is positioning himself to earn revenue from exports. As part of such effort, he has been engaging his employees on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)  such as restriction on the use  of pesticides and fungicides in cultivating crops. Elechi, who is also the First Deputy President, Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA) produces organic produce, which, according to experts, does not require use of pesticides and fungicides. The exporter threw his hat in the organic produce business because organic agro produce always attract  the best prices at the world market. Elechi, who also cultivates a variety of crops including vegetables, told The Nation that he sembraced organic agriculture to prevent his produce from being rejected at the international market. Apart from routine engagement with his farm hands on GAP, Elechi has also taken  steps to improve  safety and quality of   produce. He has also received  series of trainings on how to grow crops without  chemical  fertiliser  to  meet international requirements. Some of these steps became imperative because with zero certification on global GAP certification, Nigerians find it difficult to export agro-allied produce to Europe. The Managing Director and CEO, ABX World Nigeria, Mr. John Okakpu, who made this concern known, has since been visiting farms to get them certified by GLOBAL GAP, the non-governmental organisation that sets voluntary standards for the certification of agricultural goods around the world. Through such visits, Okakpu has been helping farmers and exporters learn good agricultural practices such as the minimal use of pesticides and fungicides. He also trains them on a variety of things including the use of fertiliser, chemicals, hygiene, health or safety, and on how to bring a quality product that is acceptable for export to the marketplace. To   prevent exports rejection, Publicity Secretary, National Cashew Association of Nigeria (NCAN), Anga Sotonye, said he has established a cashew nursery in Ogun State with 200,000 seedlings. The farm is operated 100 per cent organic to prevent exports rejection. To increase  the national  production from  220, 000 metric tonnes of cashew to 500,000, Sotonye said   more  cashew trees have  to  be planted to catch  up with  competitors such as  Ivory Coast. Sotonye  said the development of new plantation and replanting of old and uneconomical cashew gardens with high yielding varieties should be major activities of the cashew growing states. He said this will ensure increased production of the commodity. The situation is the same in the cocoa segment of the export business. For instance, the National President, Federation of Agricultural Commodities of Nigeria (FACAN), Dr. Victor Iyama, said Nigeria faces a shortage in cocoa supply, as the nation is running out of cocoa farmers. He noted that there is need to raise awareness about critical issues that are presently not receiving sufficient attention. He also said there is need to initiate strategies to ensure the sustainability of the cocoa industry. According to Iyama, the cocoa supply chain has not been  economically viable because farmers often face low yields due to low productivity, degraded soil fertility, pests and other environmental factors. To boost export, he said more farmers have to be trained in good agricultural practices so that they can grow cocoa more sustainably and improve yields. Iyama said his association is working with industry partners to provide direct investment in cocoa growing communities to help improve production and ensure a reliable supply of high-quality cocoa for exports. Looking back at the past years, Iyama said Nigeria needs  to do more to contribute to global agricultural production and trade. He said there should be  increased diversification of agricultural exports, both in terms of destination and type of products. Experts note that diversification, along with strong public policies  will allow the country to better deal with the impact of fluctuating commodity prices in international markets. 