A target of 30-60 students would commence studies for the MSc Film Production in October as the School of Media and Communication, Pan Atlantic University (PAU) Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos, is set to produce industry-ready graduates for the “new Nollywood of global standards”. The course starts amid renewed global interest in the study of Nollywood sparked by its mention as one of three market-creating innovations in an essay in the January-February 2019 issue of Harvard Business Review. Harvard scholars Clayton M. Christensen, Efosa Ojomo and Karen Dillon (2019) in “Cracking Frontier Markets”, analysed Nollywood from the perspective of market-leading innovation. Dr Ikechukwu Obiaya, the Dean, announced the commencement of admissions for the new programme at a briefing on Tuesday.  He said the SMC MSc in Film Production will cover four key knowledge areas of Scripting and Directing for the Screen; Cinematography; Editing for the Screen and Sound Design for the Screen. He added: “The course offers specialisation options in seven major film production areas of short film; documentary; interview and feature film. Others are serial drama, commercial filmlet and the music video.” Obiaya said SMC would run the programme on the back of its deep interest in the industry, including its Nollywood Studies Centre with a stock of over 10, 000 films, and its ongoing collaboration with the industry serving as curriculum guide for the DSTV Multichoice Talent Factory Academy. Obiaya said: “We have followed the development of the industry closely and have sought, through various activities and initiatives, to contribute to the development of the industry. Of particular note here are the various training programmes and the establishment of the Nollywoood Studies Centre, a resource and archival centre that has in its holdings over 10, 000 Nollywood films from the early days to the newer works.” “In furthering its development, a key part of this required development is training. There still remains a gap in this area because the number of available outlets for training do not match the great number of persons wanting to enter this industry.” The Dean said SMC has first-rate facilities for the study of film including four studios for audio-visual, sound and audio engineering, four editing suites and 50 units each of Apple and Windows workstations graphics and animation suite. Players in Nollywood lent their support, including Okechukwu Ogunjiofor, who acted as Paulo in the trailblazing Living in Bondage and Femi Odugbemi, anchor of the DSTV MultiChoice Talent Factory Academy for West Africa. There were also Mr Kene Mkparu, founder of the FilmHouse Cinemas and Dapo Adeniyi, who is inviting the world to the new Lekki Film