It is ironic that the presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) in the February 23 election, Omoyele Sowore, is at the centre of a corruption-related controversy.  Sowore is the founder of online medium Sahara Reporters, which encourages people to report stories about corruption in Nigeria. As President of the University of Lagos Student Union Government between 1992 and 1994, he campaigned against cultism and corruption. This context made the corruption allegations against Sowore particularly striking. There is no doubt that the AAC is divided.  The result is that there are members of the party who no longer recognise Sowore as its chairman. A report said the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) had suspended Sowore and nine others for six months. Leonard Nzenwa became Acting National Chairman, pending the election of a substantive national chairman. Those suspended were accused of fraud, “particularly on inflow of illegal foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same in contravention of Section 225 (3) (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” Other allegations against them were that they failed to convene or hold the mandatory quarterly meeting of the NEC, and usurped the functions of all organs of the party. The sanctions followed a thorough appraisal of the state of the party under Sowore’s leadership, it was said. Sowore’s reaction further demonstrated that the party is in crisis.  ”It has come to the notice of the office of the Chairman of the African Action Congress that a group of suspended members, induced by financial reasons and anti-progressive politics, gathered in Abuja today, 13th May, 2019, and purportedly held a NEC meeting,” he said in a statement he signed and circulated. “These members, led by Leonard Nzenwa, former national secretary, who was suspended for financial impropriety and anti-party activities, have demonstrated by their actions that they have never been, and have never shared, the core beliefs that those of us in the African Action Congress hold.” Sowore then announced magisterially: “Leonard Nzenwa is hereby expelled from the party, and the misguided individuals who participated in the Abuja meeting are suspended from the party until investigations reveal the extent of their involvement.” It is curious that Sowore sounded like the accuser and the judge at the same time. It is unclear whether the expulsion and suspensions he announced had the backing of others because he gave the impression that they were his decisions, not collective decisions. It is something to think about when a self-defined corruption fighter is accused of corruption.  