Barely 14 days to the election of new Speaker of the House of Representatives, a plaintiff, Phillip Undie, has offered to withdraw a suit to stop the Majority Leader of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila from contesting for the office. Undie has sent a letter of authorization to his counsel, Ayodele Temitope Justice to file a withdrawal notice in court. The counsel, who confirmed on the telephone that he got the notice of withdrawal from his client, was however silent on the next step. In a May 27, 2019 letter, “Authorization to file my withdrawal as plaintiff from suit number: FHC/ABJ/CS/539/2019, the plaintiff said he has got fresh facts confirming that Gbajabiamila was cleared of no criminal conviction by the Office of the General Counsel of the State of Georgia Bar. His letter to the counsel reads: “I am writing to notify you of my intention to withdraw from the above referenced legal suit wherein I sought for the disqualification of the 1st Defendant from contesting the officer of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “It is important that I honorably discontinue the suit following the emergence of more facts indicating that the 1st Defendant, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila was cleared of no criminal conviction in the state of Georgia or any other part of the United States of America in a letter dated August 30, 2010. “I am also possession of an order of the Federal High Court, Abuja dated May 22, 2018, delivered by Justice Abdu-Kafarati in favour of Femi Gbajabiamila. Kindly avail me details of my legal fees in accordance with our earlier agreement. Accept my warm regards.” In a follow-up statement, Undie said the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Adamu Abdu-Kafarati had decided a similar case in favour of Gbajabiamila on May 22, 2018. The statement said: “I, Philip Undie, a Nigerian Tax payer who filed a legal suit against Femi Gbajabiamila in suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/539/2019 at the Federal High Court, Abuja on the let day of May 2019.
“The suit was filed in my innocent belief that the first defendant, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila ought not to be allowed to contest for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives based on information then at my disposal that he had been criminally convicted by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia, United States of America.
“Since the matter was filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja, I have come into possession of more facts on the alleged criminal conviction which shows beyond all doubt that the basis of the suit is found on misinformation and misrepresentation of facts.
Continue on Page 2