President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the government is determined to tackle the security challenges confronting the country. He also urged Nigerians to play their part in security issues. He spoke yesterday at a function put together by All Progressive Congress (APC) governors, where they honoured the President for stirring the party and ensuring that it maintained its hold on power at the centre in the last general election. Speaking on the security challenges in the country on the occasion, Buhari said: “You are all quite aware that insecurity has remained a big challenge for us all. We are determined to face this challenge and secure the country more than ever before. “While the protection of lives and property is a primary responsibility of government, it is also incumbent on the citizens to share in this responsibility, as security is a collective responsibility. “I call on all Nigerians to continue to have faith in our great country. I thank you for your continued patience and sacrifice towards moving the nation forward.” On the economy, Buhari said in the face of the challenges that have arisen from past economic and political mismanagement, the party must feel justifiably proud to have contributed actively in getting Nigeria back on track in the last four years, in human and infrastructure development. He said: “We remain committed to improving the welfare of the Nigerian people. “Your Excellencies, it will be belabouring the point to say that true federalism is necessary at this juncture of our political and democratic evolution. He also called on the need to build bridges across the country. “At a time when some few privileged individuals and groups have chosen to exploit and manipulate the ethnic and religious fault for seeking personal and partisan advantage, we need to build bridges across the different divides and instil faith in the unity and indivisibility of one Nigeria,” he said. The president also urged the governors to support the government’s anti-corruption fight. “I call on the state governments to be a strong pillar of support for our anti-corruption agenda, as well as continued support for our programmes of social protection, school feeding programme and other policies geared towards human capital development. “Going forward, we must all work towards building a socially cohesive society in which the resources of the country work for all. “We will continue to apply public funds in such a way that no section of the country or segment of the population suffers social exclusion,” he added. He also assured that the administration will do everything possible to sustain the current economic programme. He said: “Your Excellencies, you will all agree with me that Nigeria is on a renewed growth trajectory. “Accordingly, we will do everything within our powers to sustain the current economic recovery efforts. “We will continue to reinforce our macroeconomic policies to achieve sustainable economic stability and growth. “We will also continue to ensure the growth comes along with more jobs and a fair and just distribution of the national wealth. Your continued cooperation in this regard is very vital.” The President also commended the governors for honouring him, saying “it is an encouragement to continue to do more in moving Nigeria’s democracy to the Next Level.” He said he viewed the “award as a reflection of the collective commitment of the states and Federal Government to work harmoniously to find solutions to the developmental challenges facing our country. “Your Excellencies, I am very humbled by this award. It is a further reminder for me to continue to dedicate my life and my time to serving the Nigerian people.” Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, who is APC Governors’ Forum chairman, said the President was honoured for his patriotic devotion and leadership. Speaking on the essence of the gathering, he said: “We are gathered for the love of our country, for admiration of an exalted captain in the person of President Muhammadu Buhari. “We are here gathered for patriotic devotion of a leadership we consider visionary, for which we are well pleased. “We are also gathered to appreciate the founding fathers of our great party during the merging period, especially the progressive governors, eight of them remaining. “For every journey that has a beginning must have an end. The end of one government marks the beginning of another. “By the 29th of May, we the remaining governors will bounce out of office, and this presents to us an opportunity to appreciate a man that we have worked wonderfully well with, a man that made our party, President Muhammadu Buhari, the President, for a job well done. “This occasion is primarily to appreciate you and to thank you for a job well done. “I recalled vividly in 2014 when the merger struggle started with all my colleagues here, we were the very first few generals of President Buhari in the merging arrangements. “When we started many people never gave us a chance and many never believed in President Buhari, especially the elites, except for the ordinary people on the streets. “It was a tall order. It was a difficult arrangement. But we worked for victory not only for him but for the party and the entire generation.”