The battle for supremacy has continued to rage in Anambra state between the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB ) and security agencies following the declaration of May 30 as sit -at -home by the former. While IPOB has continued to issue threats of accomplishing its mission on Thursday in all the Southeast states, including Anambra, the police in the state said it would treat members of IPOB as miscreants. The Police Public Relations Officer in Anambra state, Mr Mohammed Haruna, said the command with its sister agencies were not blinking an eye over threats by those he described as hoodlums, adding “let’s wait and see “. The police command reminded the group that it was banned and would continue to be banned, describing them as illegal. Haruna said residents should not panic as the command would make sure nobody harasses and intimidates them. According to him: “Let me make it clear to them that the command is battle ready for any person or group that would want to cause confusion in Anambra State that is adjudged the best in Nigeria in terms of security. “Again, the command will not fold its arms and allow miscreants free access to cause mayhem here, anyone or group that intends to do so, will face the full weight of the law.” But IPOB, in a statement on Wednesday in Awka through its media and Publicity secretary, Emma Powerful vowed no form of arrest, abductions and intimidation would force them to back out of the protest. According to IPOB: “Some call it rally, some say it’s a protest but we hardcores call it IPOB evangelism. “Across the length and breadth of Biafra land, from Asaba to Abakaliki, from Enugu to Onitsha, Owerri to Aba to Igweocha, these chosen breed of fearless warriors will make sure our people are protected. “This is a clear demonstration to all oppressors, collaborators and traitors alike that no amount of intimidation, abductions, arrests, killings and concocted lies will stop this IPOB. “May 30th is a Holy Day and Biafraland will be on lockdown.”