The top 81 candidates for the InterswitchSPAK 2.0 second stage have emerged. They scored between 70 and 91 per cent in the National Qualifying Examination for the InterswitchSPAK 2.0 written by 17,460 SS2 pupils nationwide on April 13, 2019. The highest score, 91, was by Mezisashe Ojuba of Loyola Jesuit College, Abuja.  It was three marks higher than the grade from last year’s qualifying examination, which was scored by Daniel Ore Ofe of the Ambassadors College, Ota.  This year’s cut-off score, 70, was also two marks higher than last year’s. The top 81 will proceed to the main stage of the competition, which features a TV quiz, a Masterclass, and an Innovation Challenge around STEM subjects. Cherry Eromosele, Group Chief Product & Marketing Officer at Interswitch, organisers of the competiton, said in a statement that more SS2 pupils nationwide registered for this year’s competition. “This year, we had over 50 per cent increase in student enrollment, compared to last year. This goes to show that the effort and commitment put into the project is gaining traction. The examination process was managed by our technical partners, Just Media and the National Examination Council (NECO).  I am delighted at the results, as it shows that the examination was highly competitive and this crop of SS 2 science students can compete favourably with their peers across the world. However, only the best 81 students will be selected for the next stage of the competition,” he said. The total prize award is N12.5 million worth of scholarship funds. The overall winner will get a five-year scholarship in any tertiary institution, a laptop, a gold trophy and monthly stipends throughout the duration of the scholarship, all totaling N7.5 million. The second-place winner will get a three-year scholarship, laptop, silver trophy and monthly stipends for the three years worth N4 million; while the third will receive a year-long scholarship worth N1 million, a laptop, and a bronze trophy. The results, released on May 13, are available on the firm’s website.