As PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc celebrates its 120th year anniversary in Nigeria, the company says it remains committed to the Nigerian economy and will continue to invest in expanding its business and resources to ensure increasingly better returns for its shareholders. PZ Cussons Nigeria reaffirmed that it believes the Nigerian economy has enormous potential and it will continue to partner with the government in the development of the economy. The assurance was made when a delegation of the board and management of PZ Cussons Nigeria led by the Chief Executive Officer, Christos Giannopoulos visited the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to commemorate the company’s 12 decades of operations in Nigeria. Giannopoulos assured that PZ Cussons Nigeria, which has been listed on the NSE for 58 years, remained committed to growing its business and delivering better returns to shareholders. “We are 58 years on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). We are here to stay, we are not going anywhere. Investors need to have confidence in our shares. We have in the region of 76,000 shareholders which we are expected to make returns to and they have been getting returns from consistent dividends declared by the company over the years that we have been listed,” Giannopoulos said. According to him, the company’s future is bright as Nigeria continues to offer growth opportunities as the biggest economy in Africa and population in excess of 190 million. “We will continue to invest and expand on our capacity; we always upgrade our equipment so that we have the latest and best produce quality products. Let me assure our shareholders and other stakeholders, we are here and very strong though we are going through challenges right now, but the fundamentals of the company are extremely good. The financial results are positive and not negative,” Giannopoulos said. He pointed out that the seeming low liquidity of the company’s shares on the Exchange was due to shareholders’ loyalty as investors who have the company’s shares hardly want to sell noting that with more than 76,000 shareholders, the company has a large domestic shareholders’ base. He outlined that the company is focusing on its investment in palm oil as a growth sector of the Nigerian economy, pointing out that the company had made significant investment in capacity expansion in the last four years. “Palm oil, for us, is very important. For me, it is, probably, number or number two biggest agricultural opportunity for Nigeria because the world started palm oil from Nigeria; the first fruit came from here. We are working very closely with government and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure that we find ways to fund small farmers for palm oil. So, we have been working together. We have already started a number of initiatives. It takes time, like three to five years to grow and start producing significant palm oil,” Giannopoulos said.  