Perhaps, in no other month of Hijrah calendar is the role of Muslim women (especially wives) more pronounced than in Ramadan. Like in other months, they display the roles of wives, mothers as well as that of their husband’s confidants. But more than in other months, they mostly exhibit their spiritual dedication in Ramadan. In that sacred month they fast like their men counterparts. They observe Salat five times daily like their male counterparts except when they are in menstrual period. They also join their male counterparts in observing Tarawih after the Iftar every evening. Some of them even attend Tafsir and public lectures during the days. Yet, they carry out their normal occupational functions like their male counterparts either in offices, shops, or farms. Yet, they never relent in carrying out their matrimonial duties. Even as some of them assist their husbands financially in maintaining the homes, they still take care of those husbands as well as their children and relatives domestically. At the time of the day when the husbands are knocked out by fatigue arising from fasting, the wives are still busy in the kitchen preparing Iftar for the household. And at the time in the night when some husbands are engaged in Tahajjud, or are snoring in bed, the wives are already up in the kitchen preparing the Sahur for the family. Some of these women are carrying pregnancy. Some are suckling their children. Some of them are knowledgeable enough to do the Tilawah (recitation of the Qur’an) like their husbands. Some of them are even rich enough to finance the home fully or partially. And, in all these activities, they never feel tired. Where and when they feel tired, they never show it. If any month has ever depicted the virtues of women in terms of strength and dedication, it is Ramadan. Wives are the live wire of the matrimonial homes just as their husbands are the transformers. Prophet Muhammad (SAW) was quoted as saying that “The best amongst you (men) are those who are best to their wives in treatment….” Therefore, if only for the reason of their activities in Ramadan alone, wives deserve tenderness and dignified treatment in the hands of their husbands. 