In his quest to promote improved service delivery within the Orile-Agege Local Council Development Area (LCDA), the Executive Chairman of the Council, Hon Johnson Sunday Babatunde recently donated a Toyota Hiace bus to staff of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Orile-Agege chapter. Addressing journalists shortly after the commissioning, the Council boss, who was in the company of the Vice Chairman/Supervisor for Education, Hon Kafilat Oluwatoyin Akanni-Pedro, Secretary of the LG, Hon. James Agboola and Mr. Isaac Ademole, Council Manager, said it was part of the Council’s welfarist agenda towards the staff. The Council chair who had earlier unveiled free public school busses for conveying pupils within the Orile-Agege and its environs, said the gesture was his own way of giving his people the dividends of democracy. “If we start sharing money now it won’t go round but we believe this one can go round. The children will benefit and it will take some certain burdens off their parents. Those parents that normally give their children money for transport, that is why we are giving this to them. And this is a meaningful dividend of democracy because it has an impact on the children because we are talking about their tomorrow. That is what we have been able to do with my own team.” The gesture, he say, extends to all the primary schools within his council area and environs. “In the morning we have designated them to go for about three or four times and same for afternoon. We are going to be responsible for the fuelling and that is part of our overhead cost.” Apart from the busses, the Council, he maintained, has provided exercise books for the pupils just as some of the schools within the neighbourhood have had a facelift as well as supply of furniture. “The whole idea is to make our public schools in real competition with the private by setting the pace for others to follow. What we want to do is to replicate some of the things in the private schools so that the public schools can be a lot better in terms of learning output and all that. Like what is happening at Zion now is that many people are withdrawing their wards from private schools to come into the public School.” In a related development, the Council also organised the Spelling Bee Competition for pupils of primary and junior secondary schools. The competition supervised by Quizmaster Olufemi Adeoti saw a lot of schools vying for honours. While declaring the event opened, the Vice Chairman/Supervisor for Education, Hon Kafilat Oluwatoyin Akanni-Pedro said the competition was bound to help the pupils improve in their studies. In her own remarks, Mrs. Mojisola Babatunde, the chairperson of the Spelling Bee Competition who recalled that schools within the Council have never won in the statewide competition said it hopes to win in future competition. At the end of the keenly contested completion, winners emerged for primary and secondary categories after the preliminaries. Master Bamidele Ahnas from St. Peters Blessed pry school won in the primary school category. 