Funke Treasure is a poet, novelist, author and broadcaster. As an Assistant Director with the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) she still finds time to write books, many of which constitute important segments of the broadcasting industry in Nigeria. In this encounter with Edozie Udeze, she relates her incursion into writing and declares, ‘I courted poetry early in life’ and more. What inspires you to write? Knowledge production, content development and the itch to share the little I know with people, knowing it will make a difference and bring about progress for them. When you read a book what are the essential things you look out for? Three things, the message, the storytelling and the structure.  Of all the books you have read which character or characters affected your sensibility the most? Ake, the Years of Childhood by Wole Soyinka. While I like young Wole a lot, my favourite character is Teacher Lemo. If I read two pages of that book now, I would start having writing ideas. Yes. It’s that powerful a book for me. Between prose, drama, poetry, et al, which one draws your attention the most? I courted poetry early in life, I even had a collection that I gave to a lecturer in school to edit for me, but he misplaced the collection. I was so disappointed, I felt a sense of intense loss for days, and I thought I could never get the poems back from myself, even if I tried quite hard. So that killed my love for poems until 2012 when I joined a writing class at Rhodes University and wrote poems again. I think about three of them made it to the anthology produced for the class. I love performance poetry, right from high school days when class mates performed Wole Soyinka’s Abiku at Literary and Debating Society days. I also love stage plays, I acted in one, even if it’s a minor role in my days in college. It was a Prof Ben Tomoloju’s play. I love the quick resolutions that come with short stories, that does it for me with prose. I really do not like a long drawn story that continues endlessly. And that explains why my first book, ‘Memories of Grandma’ was a collection of stories about my childhood, growing up with my maternal and paternal grandparents. At what point in your life did you realise that one day you will become a writer and what book did you read that triggered the muse? I suppose in my latter years in secondary school, when I won a state wide competition for a school writing competition, and I made the pages of Nigerian Tribune back then. It was the month of June, in either 1987 or 1988. My mum kept the newspaper for decades, my curiosity made me go digging and now it’s lost. It was my first appearance in a newspaper. At that time, my father had a good collection of books, and music, one would consider classics, so I must have been largely influenced then by my encounters with them. Where and when do you like to read and or write? I like orderly chaos when I am writing, so my favourite space is my bedroom. If not there then, any room, preferably a hotel or guest house, with my stuff scattered around me. I have however learnt to write as soon as the muse beckons. I read all kinds of printed materials, because you never know where you may chance on a piece that could move you a few sentences forward in your writing. If you meet your favourite author, what will be the first question to ask him or her? What was your experience like while writing that book, stringing the chapters and deciding what to include and exclude? Followed by how did you feel when you were done with the writing? Who are your favourite writers home and abroad? At home, those will be Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and others while abroad I have many of them. I have books by Maya Angelou, Malcolm Gladwell, Reuel Koza, TD Jakes, Chrid Gardner, Barrack Obama, Jo Owen. How do you arrange your library? I have a mix of autobiographies, biographies and self development books in different fields. I have read Larry King’s My Remarkable Journey twice, and his How to Talk to Anyone, anywhere, anytime multiple times. Are you a re-reader, why and how often? Yes I am a re-reader. I re-read if I have to deliver training or write an article, or for leisure, if perhaps I am going through my collection and I chance on a book I enjoyed reading and then want to relive the experience. I do a chapter or two to re-enforce an idea or a shift in thinking, sometimes a page is all I have time for. At other times, I re-read a book to consider the style of writing. I have re-read Toni Kan’s A Night of Creaking Beds. I love its presentation of love and romance amongst the lower class. I have re- read Mark Sanborn’s The Encore Effect, I am Malala, my favourite Soyinka books, Ibadan,the Penkelemes Years and Ake, and many more. Oh! And God’s Bits of Woods by Sembene Ousmane What are you reading now and what do you intend to read next? I just released two self help books on pronunciation for the clergy and the Spoken Word Industry generally. Both were written and released at the same time, so I am pretty exhausted at the moment. All I can do for now is some light reading. However, in between writing, I stole some time to read a bit from the 15 Laws of Growth and 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership by my mentor, John Maxwell. In the aftermath of the release of my own books, I am returning to motivational books on leadership to re-fuel. Laughs. I am looking forward to reading John Maxwell’s latest book, Leadershift. I look at it almost every time I pass by my bookshelf and say to it, I am coming for you! Laughs heartily. Has writing ever reordered your life? In what ways, if yes? Yes, writing re-orders my life every now and then, just as music does.          I have had countless encounters with books. My personal experience is in fact such that seasons of my life are either preceded by a book encounter or lived through with a book encounter. The fascinating thing is that I always get to read a book that gives me a paradigm shift either for my career or my personal life, periodically. At the beginning of the year I read Rhonda Byrne’s ‘The Power’, it’s a book about personal transformation that I won’t forget in a long time. I have re-read portions of it, again and again. I am glad I started this year with it.  