WOMEN are more prone to mental illness and so should be given special attention to avoid the disease, a consultant psychiatrist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Dr Kafayah Ogunsola, has said. The youth, she added, are also prone to the disease, as one out of 10 persons between 10 and 30 is said to have been predisposed to emotional or mental disorder. Ogunsola canvassed adequate education and corrective measures for  mental health. She spoke at a conference tagged: ‘Ummahaat Day’ organised under the aegis of Ummahaat Forum, an organ of the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria, Lagos State unit. Speaking on theme ‘Voice in her silence’, Ogunsola said: “Mental disorders are abnormalities that persist within some certain contexts and women are more prone because of the various positions they occupy in the society; either as wife, mother, sister, mother-in-law, or daughter-in-law. She added: “Mental illness often arises from domestic violence, molestation, sexual abuses, divorce, rape, widowhood, loss of loved ones, scarification, bullying and body shaming. “Mental health is very critical. Even if you’ve not achieved your goals and potential, you will realise what you can do and be able to make right decisions and meaningful contributions to the society. “The needs of a woman alone can lead a woman to depression. Never make joke of anything. Suicide is the most difficult health issue to handle apart from cancer and accident. Adopting a healthy lifestyle may be protective of an emotional disorder, it cannot stand in as treatment, if an emotional illness sets in, especially if it progresses to a certain level of severity. It is, therefore, advisable at this point to seek evidence-based treatment, in the form of psychotherapy, medications or a combination of both. Like other chronic medical illnesses and disorders, early intervention and commitment to long-term follow up is very crucial for a good outcome of mental disorders.” The psychiatrist, who noted that conversation around mental health has been on for long, berated the silence of the victims and their inability to seek help, particularly women in their troubled times. According to her, there is no generation that has been so pressured as this one, which has caused more pressures for women and make them unable to live up to the expectations of the society. Television presenter, Nymat Akashat Zibiri, who gave the keynote address, lamented that a lot of women had been forced to resort to substance abuse to cope with emotional traumas. She said: “It is sad that women and teenage girls resort to substance abuse as a way of escaping from various kinds of mental and emotional troubles. Sadly, we don’t entrench Islam; rather, what we entrench is culture. Some women see tramadol and codeine as alternative to alcohol. “What we have also realised in recent times is that in some cases, polygamy has become a major avenue for abuses for women. Women rely on drugs to erase bitter experiences from their memory. Unfortunately, these substances never leave their body, but only stay long and attack other organs in the body,” she said. She added that when this trend begins to happen, “women will not be able to raise an upright child, children will always stray and crimes will be on the rise, adding: “If you are not mentally and emotionally balanced, you cannot keep a balance family.’’