THE Oyo State Security Trust Fund (OYSSTF) has presented 10 new security patrol vehicles, security gadget and materials to the state joint security outfit, codenamed “Operation Burst”. Aside the items, firefighting equipment and materials were also presented to the Fire Service in the face of rampant fire incidents. The presentations were done at the OYSSTF office, Onireke, Ibadan. The event was attended by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Mr. Adebayo Adelabu, the Oba Abiodun Kola-Daisi, Ekerin-Olubadan of Ibadanland and Mr. Femi Odumabo and others board members. The Special Adviser to Governor Ajimobi on Security, Mr. Segun Abolarinwa and the General Officer Commanding, 2 Mechanised Division also attended the event. Other security equipment supplied to the  joint security outfit include: 120 Kevlar Tactical bulletproof vest complete with pair level IV ballistic plate, fibre ballistic helmet level III, anti-riot tempered plastic shield and pepper spray. Some of the equipment supplied to the fire service include delivery hose, hand control branch, drums of chemicals, marking tape, fire protective clothing for fire operations, cock helmets and rubber boots of various sizes. The security items were received by the commander of the joint security task force, Brig.-Gen. Oluyinka Soyele. The state Director of the Fire Service, Mr. Moshood Adewuyi, received the fire-fighting equipment on behalf of the service. Adelabu said the brand new patrol vans were purchased as part of efforts to strengthen the security network in the state and to aid fast response to crime. He said the Ajimobi-led administration had shown much commitment to security of lives and property, noting that such was evident in the peaceful atmosphere witnessed in the last eight years. Adelabu said: “The primary responsibility of any government is to protect the lives of its citizenry and their property. Without these, there can’t be any meaningful development. “If there is anything the Ajimobi administration is recognised for, it is security of lives and property. This administration has performed better than any government in the state on security. “We implore the incoming administration to sustain and surpass the present administration’s achievements on security.” He urged the agencies to ensure maintenance of the patrol vans as well as usage for the purposes for which they were purchased. 