Cocoa butter is a vital ingredient in chocolate making. Cocoa butter is an extract from cocoa beans, which is further mixed with additives such as sugar or sweetener, and preservatives. It is important to note that studies revealed that cocoa is rich in flavanols, which lower blood pressure by improving nitric oxide levels and blood vessel function. Cocoa containing between 30–1,218 mg of flavanols can reduce blood pressure by an average of 2 mmHg. Cocoa consumption lowers blood pressure, it cocoa has properties that aids in the reduction risk of heart attack and stroke Cocoa can improve blood flow and reduce cholesterol. Eating up to one serving of chocolate per day may reduce your risk of heart attack, heart failure and stroke. It reduces symptoms of depression by reducing stress levels and improving calmness, contentment and overall psychological well-being. Cocoa contains some anti-diabetic properties. Its products are associated with weight lowering properties. Studies have proven that it has anti-cancer properties in test-tube and animal studies. It also anti-asthmatic properties. Cocoa promotes healthy teeth by fighting bacteria that cause cavities, and it also enhances healthy skin by screening it from sunlight and it has the tendencies to regulate the skin surface and hydration. Production process Cocoa butter manufacturing process involves cocoa bean roasting machine, cooling machine, cocoa beans peeling machine, cocoa butter grinding machines and other cocoa bean processing machine. It has advantages of high automation, easy-operating integrated control, stable performance, high product quality, etc. Note that cocoa butter production is a highly lucrative business, as its consumption and demand cannot be overemphasised. Cocoa consumption is very important not for only infants, but for adults and the elderly alike. Availability of raw material Cocoa beans are readily available in all the South-Western states of the country in commercial quantity. In the global cocoa market, Nigerian cocoa beans are cheaper. This is an advantage for intending processors. Monetary requirement The amount of money required for such investment depends on the capacity of investment the investor wishes to do, between N3.95 million to N69 million. 