The Founder of the Nura Manu Soro Foundation, Mr Nura Manu, has declared he is involved in philanthropy to lift the downtrodden. He said he is using his wealth to impact positively on humanity in general, especially the less privileged who don’t have access to free education. The Foundation focuses on payment of scholarship and other education intervention programs for the needy in the state. Disclosing why he set up a N100 million scholarship fund scheme on Sunday in his private residence in Bauchi during the official launching, the philanthropist said it will go a long way in reducing the high rate of out- of- school children and illiteracy in the state. He said the scholarship, which is solely for “Tuition fees payment” is for every student across tertiary institutions and basic schools in Bauchi. Manu, who lamented the decay and absolute neglect of the education sector in the state, said he is open to partnership and further funding from government and private individuals. His words: “I want to encourage people to go to school and I will definitely contribute my quota to see that this is achieved. “The decay and absolute neglect of the education sector is quite worrisome that the right thing to do is to join other philanthropists in making a change.” He said his journey into philanthropy started five years ago when he supported a student who couldn’t afford JAMB form with funds. The student, he said, later became the best law graduating student of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria in 2017. Abdulwahab Aliyu, the beneficiary, was also present to testify to the kind gesture of Manu. Aliyu said the intervention of the Nura Manu Soro foundation assisted with other subsequent funds apart from the JAMB payment. He expressed gratitude to the foundation stating that the journey wasn’t that smooth for him but for their intervention. On how beneficiaries will be selected, Manu said: “Both applications, selections and verification will be carried out through a local committee. “At the tertiary level, it includes students, religious leaders and a representative from students’ affairs office. While at the basic education level it made up of headmaster, PTA chairman and the child parent. “Further verification is to be carried out at the foundation Secretariat. “The foundation is cashless and makes payments directly to schools accounts and not individuals”. He said the foundation is equipped with competent professionals with track records from the education sector expected to handle the continuous implementation of the framework to fulfill its goals, values and aspirations.