A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Judicial Council (NJC), the Senate and others to justify why it should reject a suit seeking to stop them from appointing and confirming Justice Ibrahim Muhammad as the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). Justice Inyang Ekwo gave the order while refusing an ex parte motion for interim injunctions filed by the Board of Incorporated Trustees of Malcolm Omirhobo Foundation. Justice Ekwo, in a ruling last Friday, declined to grant all the reliefs sought by the applicant. Instead, the judge ordered the defendants to, within seven days after being served, appear and show cause why the applicants’ reliefs should not be granted. He said: “None of the prayers made on this motion ex parte can be granted in the absence of the defendants. “The plaintiff is hereby ordered to put the defendants on notice. The defendants are hereby granted seven days, upon being served, to appear and show cause why the application of the plaintiff ought not to be granted. “Case adjourned till May 13 for the defendants to show cause.” The plaintiff/applicant had, in its motion ex parte, prayed the court for “an order of interim injunction restraining the fifth defendant (Buhari) from appointing the third defendant (Justice Muhammad) as the Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria pending the determination of the motion on notice filed herein”. The plaintiff/applicant also sought “an order of interim injunction restraining the seventh defendant (the Senate President) from confirming the appointment of the third defendant as the Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria pending the determination of the motion on notice”. Named as defendants in the suit are: the NJC, the Federal Judicial Service Commission of Nigeria (FJSCN), Justice Muhammad, the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Attorney General of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In the substantive suit, the plaintiff is praying the court to restrain President Buhari from appointing the Justice Muhammad as the substantive CJN. The plaintiff argued that the Acting CJN conducted himself in a manner that reduced the confidence of the public in the integrity and impartiality of the Judiciary. It averred that President Buhari lacked the constitutional powers to unilaterally suspend and/or remove a sitting CJN from office, as was done in the case of Justice Walter Onnoghen. The plaintiff urged the court to declare that by combined interpretation of sections 1(1)(2), 231(4), 292(1)(a)(i)(b), 153(1)(i), 158(1) and paragraph 21 (a)(b) of Part 1 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, “it is unlawful and undemocratic for the fourth and fifth defendants (Federal Government and President Buhari) to declare the office of the CJN vacant on January 25 and consequently appoint and swear in the third defendant as the acting CJN”. It also prayed the court to restrain the National Assembly from confirming any appointment of Justice Muhammad as the substantive CJN. The plaintiff/applicant urged the court to declare that Justice Muhammad, who is currently the most senior jurist at the Supreme Court, is unfit to replace the sacked CJN, Justice Onnoghen. The plaintiff prayed the court to declare that Justice Muhammad, having made himself available as a tool that was used in the violation of the Constitution, especially with regards to the “illegal” removal of the former CJN, is not a proper and fit person to be recommended for appointment to head the judiciary.