• Alleged $2b tax: Court rejects AGF’s preliminary objection MTN Nigeria Communications Plc (MTN) says it has successfully completed the registration of 20,354,513,050 ordinary shares of N0.02 each with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Its Chief Executive Officer, Ferdie Moolman, broke the news in a statement yesterday. Moolman said the completion of the process set in motion the next steps in MTN’s intended listing by introduction on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). “I am excited we have achieved another milestone in our listing process and want to thank the SEC and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) for supporting us through the process. “We have now begun to engage with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to complete the listing process,” he said. Moolman said MTN was guided by a vision to lead the delivery of a bold new digital world, adding that its leadership position in coverage, capacity and innovation had remained constant, since its launch in 2001. The telco had changed its status from a private company to a public limited company in preparation for its listing on the NSE. The company hopes to complete its listing by introduction on the exchange by July. Meanwhile, the Federal High Court (presided over by the Honourable Justice Aneke), has rejected the Notice of Preliminary Objection filed by the AGF in response to MTN’s lawsuit. The substantive case is now scheduled to be heard on June 26. MTN took the legal action after receiving a demand notice from the AGF alleging unpaid duties and taxes running into $2billion between 2007 and 2017. The suit challenges the authority of the AGF to deal with issues around tax and custom duties. According to the law, oversight for this is the responsibility of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Nigerian Customs Service (NCS). The court heard arguments on the AGF’s preliminary objection on March 26, 2019. At the time, the AGF requested that MTN’s suit be dismissed because it was not filed within the appropriate timeframe, which the AGF asserted was within three months of receipt of the initial request for a self-assessment. Having considered the matter, the judge determined that MTN’s suit was not statute-barred, as the company was only required to file its case within three months of receipt of the actual demand notice, which it did. Even if the court ultimately rules that the AGF is within its rights to assess taxes and duties, it does not imply that the assessment that has been made is legitimate. MTN maintains that it is fully compliant with Nigerian tax laws. The company remains committed to meeting its fiscal responsibilities, and to contributing to the social and economic development of Nigeria. Since incorporation in 2001, MTN has invested more than NGN2 trillion into the Nigerian economy and has paid more than N1.7 trillion in taxes, levies and other regulatory fees.