•100 doctors face tribunal With quacks competing with professionals in various disciplines, vigilance is key to safeguarding the integrity of all professions. The real tragedy though is that some trained professionals sometimes act unprofessionally, like quacks. So, there is need for institutional safeguards to protect the society. In the medical profession, the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) is the statutory regulator. It has the responsibility for regulating the practice of medicine, dentistry and alternative medicine in Nigeria. A report that the MDCN has mandated its tribunal to try 100 doctors accused of professional misconduct from various parts of the country, is therefore noteworthy. By taking such a step, the public is reassured of the professional competence of those unaffected, even as such an action will encourage members to act professionally at all times. More so, the medical profession is so important that no form of misconduct should be tolerated. In some instances, a single medical misconduct could result in a death or even multiple deaths. That is why to train as a doctor is very demanding, both in academics and time spent. After all, medicine is crucial to human existence, and any instance of incompetence or carelessness on the part of its practitioners, could be very damaging. The training to become a doctor is to ensure rigour in practice, and that must be maintained at all times. According to the report, the medical tribunal convicted one Dr. Jamiu Muhmmad of Martha Bamaiyi General Hospital, Zuru, Kebbi State, and suspended him for six months for a wrong diagnosis that resulted in the severing of the lower limb of a baby while performing an unnecessary surgery. To complicate the negligence, the doctor misdiagnosed the state of pregnancy, claiming the baby had died in the womb, which turned out not to be true after the surgery had been done to evacuate the supposed dead baby. Also axed by the tribunal was Dr. Nasiru Ibrahim of Al-Noor Clinic and Maternity, Angwon Rogo, Jos, Plateau State. He was suspended for three months for professional misconduct. Under the MDCN, the Professional Discipline Department coordinates the professional disciplinary activities of members. It serves as the secretariat of the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Investigation Panel (MDPIP). That panel has the statutory mandate to investigate any case where it is alleged that a registered medical practitioner or dental surgeon has misbehaved in a professional respect. According to the MDCN website: “The panel is composed of 15 members all of whom must be registered medical practitioners or dental surgeons. The PD department receives and processes allegations of professional misconduct against medical doctors and dental surgeons from members of the public as specified in the Standing Orders and Rules of Procedure of the MDPIP. The Head of Department coordinates the activities of the department and serves as the secretary to the Investigation.” A report says the panel can award three categories of punishment. It can suspend a practitioner for three months, six months or for life. We consider the categories of punishment inadequate, as the gap between six months and life is too wide. For instance, the suspension of Dr. Muhmmad for mere six months may be considered as too lenient by the public, considering the grievous harm he did to his victim. A life ban may also be excessive if the misdiagnosis was a result of a malfunction of an equipment, for instance. Perhaps, there is need for the regulators to re-evaluate categories of possible misconduct and punishments. Of course, any punishment by the tribunal for professional misconduct will not stop a victim who is aggrieved from approaching the courts for damages where applicable.