 Former Chelsea manager Antonio Conte has been appointed head coach at Inter Milan and the club chose to unveil him with a bizarre video. The 49-year-old has finally returned to management having been sacked by the Blues at the end of the 2017-18 season. Inter chose to make the announcement on Friday morning with a strange short film that they posted on their Twitter account. It begins with some ominous music and then cuts to Conte sitting in the back of a car as he is driven through the city of Milan. ‘Finally, it’s time to get back to it. I have many reasons to do so, perhaps even too many,’ Conte says over the top of the journey through Milan. ‘And just as many challenges are ahead of me I can’t wait. With its fans who will be wondering why me exactly? ‘Because we share the same ambitions, fearlessness, hunger and determination. Now it’s my turn.’ Inter Chief Steven Zhang then appears on screen and looks out of his office window to see Conte’s car pull up and the door open. The screen then turns black before Conte says: ‘I’m here, Inter’ as the video comes to an end. Conte spent two years at Stamford Bridge, winning the Premier League in his first season and the FA Cup in his final match in charge in May 2018. The Italian replaces the sacked Luciano Spalletti at the San Siro after the Nerazzurri finished fourth in Serie A this season, 21 points behind champions Juventus. Ex-Italy boss Conte will be charged with closing the gap on his former side, which he led to three league titles in three seasons as manager between 2011 and 2014. ‘A new chapter in my life is beginning, I’m really excited,’ said Conte on Inter’s official website following the announcement. ‘Through my work, I’ll try to repay all of the trust that the president and directors have placed in me. ‘I have chosen Inter because of the club it is, because of the project’s sound basis and how ambitious it is. Because of Inter has got  history. ‘I was struck by the club’s transparency and the desire to bring Inter back to where it belongs.’     