A lawyer, Abimbola Adeyinwolu, and her business associate, Adeola Ikumola, were yesterday arraigned at a Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ikeja, Lagos for allegedly stealing N4.6 million from another lawyer, Jennifer Obaseki. Adeyinwolu, 30, and Ikumola,40, living at 302, Gowon Estate, Ipaja, Lagos and 37, Macdee Street, Baruwa, Ipaja were alleged to have obtained N4.6million from their friend, Obaseki, on the pretext of helping her to set up a law firm. They are facing a five-count charge bordering on conspiracy, stealing, forgery and obtaining money under false pretence before Chief Magistrate Mr. A. A. Fashola. The defendants pleaded not guilty. Prosecuting Sergeant (Sgt) Michael Unah told the court that the defendants and others at large committed the offence last December 31, at 64, Ademola Adetokunbo Street, Victoria Island, Lagos. He alleged that the defendants collected N4.6 million from Jennifer Obaseki, a lawyer who lives abroad, on the pretext of procuring for her an office accommodation, a representation, he said, they knew to be false. Unah alleged that the defendants forged tenancy agreement documents between Triple Aaron B Nigeria Ltd and Obaseki and Co. Nigeria Ltd in respect of 40 square metres of an office space, an act they both knew to be untrue. He added that the defendants stole the N4.6 million from the complainant by fraudulently dealing with a falsely written document. “The complainant, who is a friend to Adeyinwolu, confided in her that she wanted to start a law practice in Nigeria. The lawyer introduced Ikumola, her boyfriend, as an agent, to the complainant. “The complainant made an initial payment of N4million to the account of Ikumola for the procurement of the office, while they later demanded N600,000 to furnish the purported office. “The complainant suspected foul play and informed the police after the defendants had collected the money and were nowhere to be found,” the prosecutor alleged. The defendants, however, denied the charge. Chief Magistrate Fashola granted them N500,000 bail each with two sureties each in the like sum. He ordered that the sureties must be employed with an evidence of three years tax payment to the Lagos State Government, saying their addresses must verified by the court. The chief magistrate said the sureties must be relatives of the defendants and live within the court’s jurisdiction. The case continues on May 30.