Recently, the Nigeria Police Authority announced their proposed clampdown on Tinted glass law. Tinted glass law is a global issue which however needs to be rightly addressed in Nigeria before the planned clampdown by the Police. Without doubt, it is necessary to wage war against the tinting of car windows, particularly, black tint. It hinders the driver from having a clear view of his blind spots, covers, drivers making phone calls and shields criminals among others. However, there are many essential things the Nigeria Police has left unaddressed before talking about the clampdown. There are different types of tinted glasses. There are factory tinted glasses and there are film tinted glasses. Tinted glasses are further distinguished by the percentage of the window tint to the visible light transmission. As at today in Nigeria, I have never seen any Police Officer or other traffic management Officers using an equipment to measure the degree of tint as it obtains in several other countries. Many of the tinted glasses targeted by the Nigeria Police will pass international test even in developed Countries. The acceptable rate of the glass Visible Light Transmission (VLT) must be made public by the Nigeria Police before the planned clampdown. We are in the age of technology and not the dark age when measurements are done by personal judgement. Having announced the acceptable rate of VLT, the Police Officers and other traffic management Officers must be equipped with the state of the art instruments for measring the VLT which must be used on the glasses before apprehending the violators. It is not difficult for some influential criminals and very important personalities to obtain the tint permit from the Nigeria police Authority even without seen assessing the level of tint. 100 per cent black tint is illegal anywhere all over the world. But many of such vehicles are on Nigeria roads. Visibility for safety and Security should be the guiding principle, not how influential the vehicle owner is. In my own opinion, all film tint should be disallowed on Nigeria roads. Any tint that comes from the automobile Manufacturers above  30 percent tinted and 70 per cent VLT should be disallowed except proper permit is obtained. The categories of people that can obtain such permit should be published. The background checks and security documentations of such people should be done without bias. Concerning the security issue, whether tinted glass permit is obtained or not, Drivers approaching Police or allied check points must be made to wind down the glasses for routine security checks except well-known VIP,s with high integrity. Safety and Security, not revenue generation should be the driving force for the implementation of tinted glass law in Nigeria. Public enlightenment and technology must also be adequately employed towards the implementation of the law. We must always do things right to avoid punishing innocent Citizens and painting the Country black among the comity of Nations. It is time to move to the next level in policy formulation and implementation in Nigeria. 