During the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, the National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) was launched as the administration’s roadmap to a private sector-driven economy. The publicity was heavy and most Nigerians knew about it. So it was shocking when a ministerial nominee couldn’t say what the acronym stands for. The nominee – an economist – said NEEDS meant the difference between human needs and human wants! Expectedly, he wasn’t picked as a minister. That screening, and others, tells us in very clear terms that many people in high offices do not read and may be uninformed about happenings around them. Yet they are supposed to be the policy and decision-makers. Some of them confidently pontificate ill-digested concepts they want to impose on the society, mainly ideas already overtaken by current knowledge. I read again the late Prof. Pius Adesanmi’s article “A Nigerian, Library and Lawmakers” recently. Adesanmi’s argument is that Nigerian politicians, unlike their counterparts in Canada, do not read. They don’t do research either. Nigerian legislators don’t make use of libraries either for research or for any other purpose. Most even employ aides to read and analyse issues for them. They hardly read the tacky statements issued on their behalf until it becomes controversial. Beyond our politicians, there’s no doubt that the lack of reading has become a national problem. There is therefore the urgent need to make conscious efforts to return our citizenry to reading. We must re-ignite interest in the search for knowledge over the race for material acquisitions which is what engages most Nigerians. Those who cannot read should not lead. Those who cannot read, cannot write because there is no knowledge to pass on to others, and no intellectual springboard with which to transmit it. No road to proper and all round knowledge exclude a good reading culture, notwithstanding whether the material is in soft (electronic) or hard copy. Today, it is hardly surprising that we have a generation of youths that detests reading; be it newspapers, magazines, novels, or even the textbooks prescribed for their school subjects! Instead, they prefer to spend much of their time browsing irrelevant websites on the internet or watching meaningless films on television. Don’t get me wrong; browsing the internet is very useful if one goes to useful sites. We all know it is however full of distracting and even destructive websites like sites that lure young and fertile minds towards terrorism. Why do most people detest reading? Different factors contributed to the decline among Nigerians. Economic factors, for instance, makes it difficult for some to personally buy books while some see books as “irrelevant” in the “rapidly changing world” as someone told me recently. I simply told him to compare the “rapidly changing world” with the past and tell me which was more stable and better. Taking him down memory lane, I revealed that even during the Native Authorities era “reading rooms” were established in local communities to encourage reading, but they’re are now extinct. Local government authorities of today fail to recognise the significance of reading rooms and libraries to individual and societal development. All they’re concerned about is how to get their monthly allocations and share it without undertaking projects that has direct bearing on the welfare of the people. Even where public libraries exist, they are stocked with outdated and unattractive reading materials. Millions of naira was spent on the National Universities Commission’s (NUC) Virtual Library Project (VLP) launched in 2001; and since we didn’t look in that direction nothing substantial is there to show for the huge sums spent. For the records, VLP was launched to bolster the quality of learning and research in Nigerian schools through the e-books that the project aimed to provide. VLP was abandoned soon after it was launched, but in 2012 the NUC injected N500m into the project. The Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) also has a Book Development Fund while the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) has a project to revive reading culture. Both have however not yet made the desired impact though funds are expended every year. Again, do Nigerians care about reading to ask what is happening there? Is it another avenue where “idle” funds are “utilised?” Knowledge – as the popular saying goes – is power. Those who are blindly chasing money today – and they are in the majority – would one day discover that those who pursued knowledge through close contact with books would eventually decide what happens in tomorrow’s society. Because of our present disdain for knowledge – which books largely imparts – we are gradually losing – some say we have already lost – our sense of critical thinking. Most of us simply swallow hook, line and sinker whatever the government, religious, economic or business leaders say without critically interrogating them. Should we always believe what they say without subjecting same to logical reasoning? Why are we often scared to gun for the best? Why do we celebrate mediocrity? And why are our institutions of higher learning not encouraging critical thinking? Socrates, it was who set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking. Simply put, it is to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing those beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those which – however appealing they may be to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be – lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant our belief. Socrates’ practice was followed by the critical thinking of Plato (who recorded Socrates’ thought), Aristotle, and the Greek sceptics, all of whom emphasised that things are often very different from what they appear to be and that only the trained mind is prepared to see through the way things look to us on the surface (delusive appearances) to the way they really are beneath the surface (the deeper realities of life). From this ancient Greek tradition emerged the need, for anyone who aspires to understand the deeper realities, to think systematically, to trace implications broadly and deeply, for only thinking that is comprehensive, well-reasoned, and responsive to objections can take us beyond the surface. Can anyone question the fact that we need deep thinking in Nigeria? Francis Bacon, in England, was explicitly concerned with the way we misuse our minds in seeking knowledge. He recognised explicitly that the mind cannot safely be left to its natural tendencies. In his book “The Advancement of Learning,” he argued for the importance of studying the world empirically. He laid the foundation for modern science with his emphasis on the information-gathering processes. He also called attention to the fact that most people, if left to their own devices, develop bad habits of thought (which he called “idols”) that lead them to believe what is false or misleading. He called attention to “Idols of the tribe” (the ways our mind naturally tends to trick itself), “Idols of the market-place” (the ways we misuse words), “Idols of the theater” (our tendency to become trapped in conventional systems of thought) and “Idols of the schools” (the problems in thinking when based on blind rules and poor instruction). His book could be considered one of the earliest texts in critical thinking, for his agenda was very much the traditional agenda of critical thinking. Moving forward, Parents should play a role by providing relevant reading materials such as story books with fascinating contents to the age and psychological needs of their children. Monitoring the number of hours spent by children watching films on television or playing video games may also create more reading time for children. Universities, schools, National Library of Nigeria as well as the state library boards should all equip their existing libraries with relevant materials that cater for the interest of all categories of readers. In communities where libraries do not exist, local government authorities should at least provide a reading room – virtual and real. Societal progress is not possible with our poor reading culture. I encourage every literate Nigerian to take the reading challenge and read at least one book every week.