The African Cassava Agronomy Initiative (ACAI)/IITA- Cassava Weed Management Project have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Viamo to promote the Six Steps to Cassava Weed Management extension toolkit via the 3-2-1 mobile service of Airtel. The 3-2-1 mobile service will allow Nigerian farmers to have access to good agricultural practices developed by the Cassava Weed Management project through an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system for as much as 10 times in a month free of charge. “Through the mobile service, we aim to reach thousands of farmers especially women with information that would transform their cassava productivity,” said Dr Alfred Dixon, Director for Development & Delivery at IITA, and Project leader of the Cassava Weed Management Project. He explained; “The use of the 3-2-1 mobile service will leverage on the advantage of the mobile subscriber-base in Nigeria with subscriptions of about 150 million and 97.2 million persons that use the internet. Furthermore, the availability of cheaper smartphones in Nigeria has given phone access to about 15 million persons, making it possible for this population to access improved weed control practices on mobile phones.” The Project Coordinator of ACAI Dr. Pieter Pypers sees the collaboration as strategic for the project as it aims to deliver best bet agronomic practices at scale. According to him, in most of rural Africa, information and knowledge is usually passed by word of mouth, (oral communication therefore presents the opportunity of knowledge/technology transfer.) Country Manager for Viamo, Harriet Blest, noted tha the 3-2-1 mobile service will bring messages from the Six Steps to Cassava Weed Management to farmers in local languages. “All that farmers need to do is to get an Airtel SIM card and dial 3-2-1 and he or she will get the toolkit. To ensure that farmers enjoy the 3-2-1 service with messages on the Six Steps to Cassava Weed Management, a validation workshop was conducted recently, drawing both private and public agricultural experts,” she stressed. ACAI Digital Extension and Advisory Services Specialist, Godwin Atser who made a presentation of the progress recorded in weed control emphasized the benefit of using the Six Steps to Cassava Weed Management toolkit for cassava cultivation, adding that farmers using the toolkit were doubling the yield of cassava from the current national average of 9 tons per ha to more than 20 tons per ha.