EKELEME: My name is Ekeleme. I registered with First Guarantee Pension. My complaint is: I have not got updates on my account since 2013. Their website is not working. Please what do I do? Thanks – Ekeleme, University of Nigeria, Nsukka. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. JOEL: I am a former employee of a Federal Government agency. I have been out of employment since 2013. I have over N2million as my contributory pension. I want to change my PFA because I am not satisfied with its performance. Is it possible to do so? Thanks. PENCOM: Section 13 of the PRA 2014 allows an RSA holder to change his/her PFA not more than once  yearly without giving any reason. The Commission is opening a transfer window to enable contributors move from one PFA to another. ONYAKA: Does First Pension Limited still exist as a Pension Fund Manager? PENCOM: Yes. It is now known as First Guarantee Pension Limited.   Its address is: Irorun Plaza, No. 65, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos. http://www.firstguaranteepension.com TAYO: In view of the Pension Act, what are the modalities for paying those who joined the civil service in 2003? PENCOM: It is any employee who is entitled to retirement benefits under any pension scheme before the  June 25, 2004, the commencement date of the Pension Reform Act, 2004, falls under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS).You may liaise with your PFA for advice. ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff member of Yaba LCDA, Lagos. I have been with Stanbic IBTC PFA since its inception. But just this month, my pension fund was transferred to Leadway PFA without my authorisation. Please, what can I do because I want Stanbic IBTC as a pension manager? STANBIC IBTC: Please note that in line with the first Personal Identification Number (PIN) rule, as stipulated by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the first Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN obtained by an RSA holder, should be maintained. Based on the above, the first PIN generated for Mr. Abdulsalam by PenCom is with LeadWay Pension and ours is the second PIN. Consequently, his contributions were transferred to his valid PIN with LeadWay as approved by PenCom. His second and invalid PIN was invalidated on our records. Mr. Abdulsalam can transfer to us once the window is declared open by PenCom. ABDULLAHI: My name is Abdullahi. My PFA is Trustfund. I  retired since 2014 and I did my biodata in August, last year. I later went to my PFA to request for the 25 per cent of my total savings, but was told that PenCom did not send money to MDA. I am seriously in need of cash because my children’s school fees is becoming a problem. TRUSTFUND PRISCA: Thank you. But we need this customer’s PIN to act on this.