Anambra state police command and the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) have continued to flex muscles in the state, following the sit -home declared by the latter on May 30. Police commissioner, Mustapha Dandaura, has warned the group to desist from its threat or face the wrath of the command and it’s allied forces But the Biafran agitators insisted that the order must be obeyed to the letter, despite what the group described as the empty threats by security operatives. The war of words and number of arrests of IPOB members in Anambra State had heightened tension. Residents had started panic buying of food items ahead of the planned date while the police command had declared it was battle ready. The State Police Public Relation’s Officer, Mr. Mohammed Haruna, who had continued to issue statements on-behalf of the command, warned IPOB that it remained banned. He said the police command in collaboration with the Joint Task Force JTF, had made adequate arrangements in making sure that residents were not harassed or intimidated on the said date, warning that the command would deal decisively with any miscreant parading as IPOB. Haruna said some unscrupulous elements had been secretly moving to some locations in the state, trying to hoist unauthoriSed flags without permission. He added the command would not fold its arms to allow hoodlums invade the state in the name of sit -at -home by faceless people. Police patrol teams had already been deployed and they had been patrolling the streets of Onitsha, Awka, Ekwulobia, Nnewi and other flash points in the State. The PPRO said some of the items recovered from the miscreants so far arrested included many Biafran flags and other things with Biafran inscriptions. According to the command, “Recall that the so called (IPOB) is still a proscribed organisation and all its activities remain illegal” “Therefore the Command will not relent in its efforts of enforcing law and order in the State” However, in one of its statements at the weekend, IPOB, said it was not leaving any stone unturned in making sure that Biafrans would remain indoors on May 30 IPOB’s statement in Awka by its Media and Publicity Secretary , Emma Powerful said the sit -at -home was to remember those killed during the war and others recently killed by security operatives and not to cause any trouble as being alleged by the police.