These are trying times for the family and friends of 23-year-old Wuruola Bello who has gone missing since Thursday. Their predicament is further worsened by the fact that her phone was tracked and her last seen location by satellite was within their vicinity in Gowon Estate. Bello, a graduate of accounting from the University of Lagos (UNILAG), according to her sister Fadesola, was reserved and never went out without telling the family where she was going. “I spoke with her around 7pm on Thursday. She works at Ikeja and she told me she was on her way home. Then, when it was raining around 7:55pm, I called again. This time it rang but she did not pick. So, I assumed it was the rain. “But we did not see her after the rain and the next time I tried her number, it said it was unavailable and later said switched off. “My sister does not have many friends. She never goes out without telling the house where she is going. She never complained about anyone stalking her or any fears. “We stay with our parents and it has not been an easy period. We tracked her phone and it showed that the location was within the estate. But, we have searched and have not found her. “We have reported to the police and they are looking for her. We are pleading with Nigerians to join us in prayers and also assist with any information that will lead to out seeing her,” she told our Correspondent. It was gathered that policemen have combed the area where the tracker showed her phone’s location including a nearby hotel but she was not there. Bello’s disappearance happened on the heels of that of 17-year-old Victoria Murray, a student at the Holy Child College, Ikoyi, who was eventually found on Saturday. The teenager whose father, Senan Murray, heads the Corporate Communications Unit of Total Nigeria PLC, was allegedly abducted by a gang of female kidnappers on May 14 on her way to school. Murray who took to his Facebook page to announce her rescue said: “My Vicky’s home! Just a quick thank you note for all your prayers and support. Thank you for all your calls. Thank you for standing with us. “Will share more details as soon as my hands stop shaking and my heart stops racing this fast.” Contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), confirmed both incidents to our Correspondent. Elkana refrained from further details on how the teenager was found, but assured the police would not close the case until all the suspects involved were apprehended. He said investigation was also ongoing in the case of Bello, appealing to the public to avail useful information to the police.