A group of political activists in Akwa Ibom State, Ibom Integrity and Servant Leadership Initiative, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari not to consider Senator Godswill Akpabio for a ministerial appointment as he prepares to set up his second term cabinet. In a letter: ‘’Why Appointing Akpabio May Be Counter-productive”, signed by its National Coordinator, Dr Asuquo Edidem Etim, the group accused Akpabio of having ‘the propensity for “mischief, treachery, flippancy, pettiness and mindless profligacy.” But Special Assistant to the Senator on Media Mr Anietie Okon described the group as ‘faceless.’ Okon said the group was unknown in the state, adding that responding to its petition ‘’would amount to according legitimacy to a faceless group.’’ The letter reads: “His corruption case with the EFCC has the potential of exploding into national embarrassment and credibility question for your government, should he be made a minister in a government that prides itself as anti-graft champion. We wish to remind you of your famous words, that ‘if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill us. “Many had thought that his joining APC would bring cool breeze of good fortunes to the party in the state, but rather, his highhanded nature and disrespect for internal democracy … became a raging storm that uprooted the recognised structures of the party … This overwhelming attitude, sadly, affected the chances of our governorship candidate, Obong Nsima Ekere (ONE). “Akwa Ibom State has several other eminent persons… just as Chief Udoma Udoma, minister of Budget and National Planning, has done creditably … And in terms of loyalty to the party and contributions to its development in the state, we have credible people, including Chief Umana Umana and Senator John Udoedehe, among others … “Akpabio has become very desperate for a fresh political power from the back door of ministerial appointment, which we fear he may use with vengeance against us… “His notoriety for flippancy is well known…For instance, he has started … boasting that Mr President is even begging me to accept a ministerial position.” The letter added: “And we believe that he needs a period of catharsis…to reflect and purge himself of bottled up negative emotions. And you can help him achieve that. You already have enough security challenges on your hands…” The group, which described itself as “core believers in Mr President’s leadership philosophy …” said the state must help “our leader achieve enhanced performance in his second and final term …” It added that Buhari’s second coming “comes with higher expectations and bigger responsibilities…’’ as “all eyes will be on you and your government… to see how you will translate your Next Level programme … to the reality of the genuine positive impact that would leave Nigeria better than you met it.’’ “Especially in your patriotic desire to decisively tackle insecurity … revive the economy and create jobs… “But we caution that to achieve these objectives…the nation needs an atmosphere of peace and you and your government deserve an environment devoid of unnecessary distractions, irritations, rancour and bickering… “And the choice of personnel you recruit … would be a huge factor. Note that the few controversies around your government in the first term were actually as a result of the unethical or insensitive actions of some of your appointees whose conduct were contrary to your …discipline and conservative nature,” the group said.