The Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, founded 34 years ago has always been in the news for wrong reasons. It is an institution whose lecture rooms used to be called ‘poultry houses’. Before now, the school is known as advanced secondary school because of infrastructure deficit in the school. The administrative building of the school that was started over 15 years ago is yet to be completed even as the institution still battles to pay salaries. During the last strike action by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), the university management had to force lecturers to return to work as the school was going broke because it relied mainly on school fees to be able to pay salaries. Last year, Governor Godwin Obaseki described the AAU as an institution that is still crawling and heavily politicised. Governor Obaseki, who spoke while inaugurating the Governing Council of the institution headed by Mr. Lawson Omokhodion, said it was worrisome that AAU was reduced to an institution driven by pure political agenda. He said: “We have reduced our premier university to one driven by pure political agenda. That cannot be the fate of our ivory tower. “We spend over N300 million monthly on the university and we are ready to put more money on infrastructure but we will not do so until we are convinced that government’s arrangement for the university is the right one that can properly manage the resources. “One of the first things you will do is to work with us to set up a visitation panel to review and understand what went wrong in the university. As a government, we will give you all the support that is required. We spend N300 million every month on that university. They claim they have more than 20,000 students. We have invested on infrastructure and we will do more but I believe the faculty and the people responsible for managing the university should do more. “I have confidence that this new board can turn around the the fortunes of the university. The government is ready to spend more money on infrastructure but we will not until we are sure that the resources we put in will be well utilised.” Earlier this year,  Chairman of AAU-ASUU, Mr. Monday Igbafen, an Associate Professor in the Department of Philosophy, asked the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ignatius Onimawo, to account for the about N5.5 billion received from TETFUND and NEEDS Assessment intervention funds. Prof. Igbafen alleged that the university has received more than N3.4 billion from TETFUND and N1.2 billion from NEEDS Assessment. But Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ignatius Onimawo, in a chat to mark his three years in office said he has changed the narratives of AAU. He said he has made AAU the best state university in the country based on his vision and mission. Prof. Onimawo said his deployment of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) helped to stop issues of sorting, missing script, non-payment of school fees as well as crisis arising from the conduct of Student Union Election. Prof. Onimawo, who debunked reports that he told Governor Obaseki that he could run the school without subvention said there are so many things he wants to use money for. “How can I tell the state government that I have enough money? It is not true. I cannot say that. Do you think I am happy using this office? The state government is aware we have been requesting for more subvention. I live in my personal house because we don’t have a Vice-Chancellor Lodge. We need a lot of things. We need a lot of money; I could not have said the state government should not fund us. If I get more funding, I will build a stadium and tar roads. “When I was appointed, I made up my mind on what I want to achieve. I have my vision and mission ready. I have achieved my mission of making AAU the best state university in the country. “We introduced computer-based test for 100 and 200 level students and that eliminated the issue of missing results. Sorting and payment for marks stopped and it brought sanity to the system. No state or federal university has been able to do that. “In the past, it was difficult to collect school fees in this school. This method has helped us to collect school fees as the examination portal will not open without school fees receipt. ICT also helped us to have seamless presentation of results. On the allegation by Igbafen on the use of TETFUND and NEEDs Assessment, the V-C  said he had executed over 33 projects with the funds within the last three years. He stated that he put an end to “poultry houses” in the institution by accessing intervention funds that has been lying fallow for three years. “AAU has suffered infrastructure gap here. Many of the buildings were called “poultry houses.” There is no V-C Lodge and my office is not befitting. Any blue roof you see here was built by my administration. For the projects I helped to complete, I did not use blue roof. “In terms of infrastructure, we have changed the face of AAU and we are still working. Many buildings here used to be called “poultry houses” but we have put an end to that. It is through the grace of God that we are succeeding. If you put God first, everything will work out,” he said. Prof. Onimawo also debunked reports that he is running from the police authorities over a petition written by Prof. Igbafen who was suspended in February over alleged sexual harassment. The V-C said there was no truth in the allegations that he refused to honour police invitation because he could not produce copies of the petition upon which Igbafen was suspended and therefore should be arrested for forgery. He said: “Igbafe is saying the police is after me. I laughed when I read about it that we should be arrested for forgery. I went to the Commissioner of Police when I was informed about the petition. I showed the Commissioner the letter written by one Engineer. In the letter, they accused me of covering up the report that indicted Prof. Igbafen. It threatened to drag me to the Independent Corrupt Practices and Allied Offenses Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). I had to minute on the letter to Igbafen and he replied that something like that happened many years ago and the matter was concluded. He said he believed that the people that wrote the letter were after me. “The Registrar brought the report and he was indicted. The report recommended that he should be arraigned before the Senior Staff Disciplinary Committee for further disciplinary actions. He was accused of sexual harassment. The panel found him culpable and they said he was accused of gross misconduct and abuse of office. “We wrote back to him to debunk his allegation. We placed him on suspension until he is cleared and hell was let loose. He went online and all media to castigate me and my family. He dragged my wife into the matter; saying I promoted her from a typist to lecturer I. “The police have concluded their report. The girl and the mother testified before the police. The girl said she lost job opportunities for five years. Igbafen locked up this girl’s result in his locker and travelled abroad. We have been keeping quiet. Since he wants to dance naked, we will let the world know what happened. “A first letter that came from one lawyer said they didn’t send anybody to write the first letter but that does not exonerate Igbafen. This matter is no longer between the family and Igbafen. It is now between the university and Igbafen because it is against our ethics. Igbafen was given fair hearing. “