There is no doubt that music and sports are fast becoming the most potent platforms for marketing because of the affinity between fans and their preferred teams or music stars. In the market, top brands have always found the two areas attractive because they are the easiest routes to the heart of their teeming consumers. This explains why brands jostle to associate with World Cup and other sporting global competitions. The former Chief Marketing officer at MTN Nigeria, Mr. Bola Akingbade, once said  a company that seeks to maintain a strong brand must employ strategies that will elicit top-of-mind awareness while making the brand relevant beyond its functional benefits in a bid to get maximum loyalty. In line with this belief, the Heineken brand, from the stable of Nigerian Breweries, has consistently used its sponsorship of the UEFA Champions League to promote its brand essence and create awareness among its high end consumers. Meanwhile, the brand has also appointed sport personalities and music icons as ambassadors to boost its market influence. Poised to tell the Nigerian story that will resonate through families and cultures across the country, three years ago, the beer brand teamed up with Nigerian-American singer, Jidenna, to bond more with its patrons. During that period, there was a trending television advert, which captured a family bond shared by many Nigerian families as Jidenna was seen sharing gifts with his family after a trip back home. For a brand that has been the go-to beer brand in over 192 countries of the world, connecting families and friendships, Heineken recently facilitated the coming of Carles Puyol with the UEFA Champion League trophy to Nigeria as part of the UEFA Champions League tour. Puyol is a three-time winner of the Champions League trophy with FC Barcelona in 2006, 2009 and 2011. According to the company, the former Captain of FC Barcelona in the country to tour UEFA Champions League trophy was to rub minds with stakeholders in the beer industry and sports enthusiasts. At a briefing, the NB Marketing Director, Mr. Emmanuel Oriakhi, explained that the presence of the Spanish legend, Carles Puyol with the iconic UEFA Champions League trophy to Nigeria was a way of rewarding consumers of Heineken and fans of UEFA Champions League competition. The visit provided a unique opportunity for consumers to not only have a feel of the trophy, but also have wonderful photo opportunity with him as the brand is committed to delivering top notch experiences to its consumers. “Such a player fits into what we want to achieve by bringing the world’s best into our country for Nigerians to have a chance to meet him for the first time and have photo opportunities with him and the iconic UEFA Champions League Trophy too. “We are excited to be creating premium experiences for our consumers and this is just part of the package we have in the ongoing season of “unmissable moments” Oriakhi noted. The three days tour in Uyo and Lagos featured an “unmissable” match at the Uyo international stadium. Puyol played with the “shine shine bobo” team, which was made up of some of the brand’s loyal consumers as well as past and present ex-Nigerian internationals and some domestic players of Akwa United. Though the event provided opportunity for sports lovers to feel the Trophy and interact with the legend, it also provided amiable platform for the Heineken brand to bond more with consumers. Oriakhi described the relationship between the brand and the UEFA champions’ league as ‘perfect partnership. Noting that the partnership over the years has been a strong platform for the Heineken brand, he said the brand has continued to gain more momentum which its promoters are proud of. Speaking on his experience, one of the brand’s consumers, a 34-year-old business man, Ekom Simon, said: “To me, this is the best a brand can do to identify with the masses, I was glad to see our local footballers playing side by side with Puyol and top Nigerian players. “This is not only a motivation for the players but an exposure for Akwa Ibomites. Personally, I feel so great and commend both the visitors and my state government that made Uyo an ideal place for such event.” This window of opportunity provided by Heineken for consumers and passionate fans is in its 12th year. It has reached at least 33 countries across Africa, Asia, North and South America.