Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member Alhaji Mutiu Are yesterday described the death of Oba Olatunji Hamzat as a colossal loss to the political family. He said the deceased party chieftain and monarch of Afowowa Sodade, Ogun State was an outstanding, loyal, courageous and principled leader who believed in the doctrines of party supremacy and discipline. He noted that Pa Hamzat served Lagos and Southwest progressive bloc with dedication and sense of responsibility. Are said in a statement in Lagos that Hamzat was a man of honour and integrity, adding that he will be greatly missed by relations and associates. He said: ” Oba Hamzat was a principled politician, a courageous leader, incorruptible actor, an Awoist, and consistent player who never defected from the progressive camp. “The hallmark of his political career was loyalty. He was a believer in party supremacy, party discipline and the pre-eminence of gerontocratic monitoring. It is gratifying that the beloved leader is survived by worthy and promising children who are doing well in their chosen fields. He was an outstanding and experienced politician, who moulded the lives of younger generation of political actors who subscribe to the progressive creed. “He was not a politician without a second address. Pa Hamzat was a successful banker and technocrat, who was fortified by the dignity of labour and involvement in community service before becoming a full politician. Pa Hamzat along with SDP leaders in Lagos State worked for the victory of the SDP presidential candidate, the late Chief Moshood Abiola, and rejected the annulment of the historic June 12, 1993 election won by him. “The greatest tribute we can pay to him is to emulate his virtues; his philosophical calmness, power of reflection and analysis, extreme caution and strategic reservations, his political maturity and composure, self-esterm, his capacity for thinking before acting, his sense of tolerance and justice and belief in the collective welfare of people. I commiserate with the family, associates and members of the Islamic group he belonged while alive. May his soul rest in perfect peace.”