THE Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) and International University of Grand-Bassam, Ivory Coast have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on establishing a partnership for exchange of academic ideas and programmes. The Ivory Coast’s university’s Vice President for Academic Affairs, Prof. Ahmed Legrouri, who led the institution’s delegates, said the partnership was informed by the need to make the institution a world-class university like ABUAD. Legrouri said the collaboration was designed to adopt ABUAD as a role model following its landmark achievements in the realm of functional and quality education within the little time of its existence. He explained that the existing learning facilities and an array of academic gurus in ABUAD attest to the fact that ABUAD has a penchant for high-quality market-driven education. He added that the partnership promises promotion of academic exchange that would make IUGB a widely recognised university. “We are here to seek partnership with ABUAD so that we can offer opportunities to our students to develop. “We are really very impressed with the achievements of this great institution. We are ready to adopt them as our model. “We have learnt a lot from the infrastructures and the attitudinal disposition of the people managing them. “And in the way of building our new campus on 80 hectares in the city of Bassam, we are going adopt what we have seen here,” he said. ABUAD Founder Aare Afe Babalola, said the decision to adopt ABUAD as a mentor was not accidental, but as a result of unparalleled achievement of the institution in functional education. Babalola said the collaboration would be the third of its kind, saying ABUAD is already in partnership with a university in Ghana and Republic of Benin. The ABUAD Founder stated that the establishment of the institution was borne out of his inclination to illuminate the world with quality academic ideas. “If you want to be a university, which is internationally recognised, you must have affiliation with other universities outside the country. “And you must have students and lecturers from other countries and curriculum that will make others to come. “With these, it is crystal clear that ABUAD place on the map of global education can’t be compromised. “My joy is that invitations are not done by us. What they have read, learnt and heard about us made them to approach us for mentorship,” Babalola said.  