The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the presentation of award by the All Progressives Congress (APC) governors to President Muhammadu Buhari as a shameful endorsement of failure. The main opposition party also said the award was the height of deception and a spat on the graves of victims of unrestrained killings and bloodletting in various parts of the country. A statement yesterday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the award was solicited and was another failed image-laundering and botched endorsement by the Buhari Presidency. According to the PDP, the award came at a time the administration was being confronted by the weight of public rejection for its failures and the alleged rigging of the February 23 presidential elections. The party added that it is totally disgraceful that Mr. President’s handlers could conjure such “scandalous whitewashing project” to gloat on Nigerians at a time they (Nigerians) are extremely hurting over the prevalent economic hardship, hunger, disappointments, failures and humongous corruption that have become the hallmark of the Buhari administration. The PDP said the APC governors exhibited their party’s unpardonable insensitivity and disdain for Nigerians by allowing themselves to be used for such image laundering for President Buhari in the face of his failures to find solution to the killings and kidnappings in Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Taraba, Adamawa, Kaduna, Katsina and other states of the federation. “It is disturbing that at a time genuine leaders are exerting themselves for solutions to the myriads of crisis plaguing our nation, those elected on the platform of the APC are busy playing to gallery and acting scripts while our nation continue to slide; the very reason Nigerians voted for Atiku Abubakar on February 23, as their preferred presidential candidate. “The Buhari Presidency and the APC have chosen to engage in endless unprofitable celebrations in the safety of Aso Villa while Nigerians are left at the mercies of bandits, kidnappers, marauders and insurgents in their homes and workplaces. “The PDP counsels President Buhari to end the circus at the Presidency and face the stark reality of the dejection, despondency and misery Nigerians have been subjected to due to his incompetence as well as insensitivity to the plight of the citizens,” the party said.