The Ikwerre Youth Movement (IYM) International has urged security agencies to end the insecurity across the 23 local government areas of Rivers State. IYM, Saturday in a seven-point communiqué after a crucial emergency meeting of its National Central Working Committee at the national secretariat, stated that urgent steps must be taken to stop investors from leaving the Niger Delta state. The communique was signed by IYM’s President-General, Azubike Wanjoku, who is also a member of Rivers House of Assembly, representing Ikwerre constituency; the Secretary-General, Marshall Chuku; the Director of Media and Publicity, Dike Bekwele; and four others. Ikwerreland covers four of Rivers state’s 23 LGAs of Port Harcourt City, Obio/Akpor, Ikwerre and Emohua. Governor Nyesom Wike hails from Rumueprikom, Port Harcourt in Obio/Akpor council, while his predecessor, Rotimi Amaechi, now Transportation Minister, is an indigene of Ubima in Ikwerre LGA. IYM said: “The spate of insecurity in Rivers State, resulting in killings, has rapidly been on the increase in Ikwerreland. We call on security agencies, especially the Nigerian police, to tactically seek an end to the menace. “The Rivers State government must expedite action on ensuring that our youths are mainly engaged, to avoid idleness, as one of the major causes of insecurity in Ikwerreland is unemployment. “We condemn, in strong terms, the burning of the village residence of one of our highly-respected elders and ethnic leaders, Ochioha Sampson Agbaru, a former Secretary to the Rivers State Government (SSG) and ex-President-General of Ogbakor Ikwerre Worldwide. We call on the Nigeria Police to get to the root of the matter and apprehend the perpetrators as soon as possible. The act is not only barbaric, but also sacrilegious. “We painfully condemn in strong terms, the gruesome murder of one of our committed members, Hon. Benson Omunakwe, at Mgbuoshimini, Rumueme in Obio/Akpor LGA. The security agencies must seriously investigate the killers of Omunakwe and also ensure that the death will bring to the lowest minimum, the continuous murder of our sons.” The umbrella organisation of Ikwerre youths also called on all stakeholders in Ikwerre ethnic nationality and Rivers state to rise to the challenges and make efforts at putting to an end the dastardly act of killing of Ikwerre people, while stressing that leaders across party lines must start to seek ways of ending the violence. It said: “The Federal Government, as a matter of urgency, must come to the aid of our people at this point in time, before all our people are being wiped out. The state apparatus seem not to be enough in handling the security challenges in Ikwerreland and other parts of Rivers State. “We are aware of planned invasion and attack on our lives and homes by some paid agents  within the security apparatus in Rivers State. “We also condemn, in very strong terms, the invasion of the residence of the Transportation Minister, which is the first in the series of planned attacks. We call on the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to investigate it and deal appropriately.” IYM also urged all Ikwerre youths to remain law abiding and prayerful, while assuring that this too would pass.