A guard simply known as Abiodun alias Abbey has been reportedly killed in Ijanikin, Lagos,  in renewed fighting by cultists . His death brings to four the number of casualties in the cult war between the Eiye and Aiye confraternities in the last three months. Abiodun, according to a resident, was butchered by an eight-man gang in front of a shopping mall at Joseph Akinola Street, Alasia, Ijanikin, on Tuesday night. The deceased was employed   two years ago because of incessant robberies in the community. He was said to have did his job well. A resident told our correspondent that he was attacked with clubs and cutlasses. He said: “Abbey was killed about 10 metres away from where a wine seller, ‘White’, was killed in March. ‘White’ was beaten to death with a rod. Three persons, including a couple, who offered to help ‘White’ to the hospital, were arrested for murder. The hoodlums first shot him, but the bullets didn’t penetrate, so, they used rod to beat him till he died. “Just as people were trying to get over that, these killers came on Tuesday night and took Abbey away. People, including motorcyclists and traders, fled as soon as they noticed what  happened. Some ran into nearby houses for fear of falling victims.” A petty trader said the marauders were young men in their 20s. He said the police that arrived about an hour after the killers left, removed the guard’s body. He said: “The body was dumped in front of the police station and later given to Abbey’s aged mother after the policemen collected N5,000 from her. “I was inside my shop when I received a call that I should lock up and go home because there was tension. As I stood up to do so, I saw people running into our compound to take refuge. All of us were on the floor while the attack was on. “The police are not helping us here at all. They came about one hour after the killers had gone away. The other time that ‘White’ was killed, those who helped to take him to hospital were later arrested as the culprits. How can they collect money from an old grieving woman?” When contacted, police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), promised to call back.  But he did not as at press time.