All Progressives Congress (APC) national spokesman Mallam Lanre Issa Onilu yesterday declined to comment on the letter written to APC National Chairman Adams by Oshiomhole by the National Vice Chairman (North), Senator Lawal Shuaibu. According to him, the memo was between two leaders and therefore not for the party to respond to. Isa-Onilu said: “The letter is not addressed to the National Working Committee (NWC). It is not a party issue. It is a personal letter to the chairman and so, the party cannot respond to it. It is only the chairman or his Chief Press Secretary (CPS) that should respond.” Oshiomhole’s CPS Simon Ebegbulem was yet to respond last night to enquiries regarding Shuaibu’s letter. However, a group that called itself APC Middle Belt Vanguard demanded an apology from the APC Deputy National Chairman within 14 days. In a reaction signed by its President, Musa Ohimini Alechenu and Secretary, Meliga Godwin, the group said Shuibu has arrogated to himself the powers of the party’s NWC and the National Executive Committee. The statement reads: “While we want to state that those words were personal to Senator Shuaibu and not the opinion of members of the NWC or NEC and of course majority of our party members, we called on Senator Shuaibu to apologise to the leader ship of this party in the next 14 days or enjoy the wrath of the party. “It is on record that people like Shuaibu are not comfortable with the kind of discipline the national chairman is instilling in the affairs of the APC since he assumed office in June 2019. “In every society, reforms don’t come easy and it is very unfortunate that at this point in time, Senator Shuaibu and his co-travellers will expect business as usual. “It may suffice you to note that the introduction of direct primaries by the Oshiomhole-led NWC has helped in bringing the people closer to the party and it was evident in the total support enjoyed by President Muhammadu Buhari across the country in the last general election. “We want to remind Senator Shuaibu that most of the issues we had in some states were crisis that existed before Oshiomhole took over as national chairman of our great party, particularly in Imo and Rivers states. “This is just a case of calling a dog a bad name so you can hang it. It is on record that Oshiomhole-led NWC inherited several crisis in the party and it is only his traducers who will be blind to those facts. “Therefore, we pass a vote of confidence on the national chairman of our great party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and we advise those fueling crisis in the party to desist from it as we are solidly behind the leadership of this great party. “We admonish Senator Shauibu to settle his personal issues with his boss and stop being a willing tool being used to cause disaffection in the party.”