The anger in her voice, as she relayed a 47 years personal experience of male chauvinism, was as foreboding as the cultural exclusion of women, who form 52 per cent of the working-age population, from self-actualisation, in most part of northern Nigeria. Luckily, unlike the aridity of the region, the air conditioner of the SUV she was driving towards the Milliken Hill, in Enugu, was chilling. Dr Cecilia Okafor, a political scientist and retired senior lecturer at the Enugu State University of Technology, was not given to anger easily, but there she was, a stealth volcano. It was Milliken Hill that brought back the memory. Many, including our father (1972) had accidentally plunged into the deep gorge, over the years. So, I was scared the ghost of the man, who made her angry at that trying period, may yet get at us, because driving through Milliken Hill required a calm disposition, just like walking on a handless rail, across a river. But soon enough, my apprehension was satiated, as I beheld the new Milliken Hill. Thanks to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, the Milliken Hill road has become safer than the dilapidated alternative expressway, from Enugu to 9th Mile Corner. Since late 1970’s, when I became conscious of the Milliken Hill, the road was the most fearful four kilometre drive, one can ever make. Driving towards Ngwo, the roughly five-metres-wide road, is a fortified several-metres-high-wall on the left side – bearing down on motorists. While on the right, is hundreds-of-metres-deep-gorge, too fearful to look into, even while in a car. Soon enough, I saw why other passengers were relaxed, even as Dr. Okafor recalled the family tragedy and her pitiable experience. The government of Governor Ugwuanyi had ingeniously built a concrete fortification throughout the gully side of the road, with street lamps to aid night drive. So, as she narrated her story, I was inwardly remonstrating the cultural tragedy that has made majority of women in northern Nigeria uneducated and redundant. By United Nation’s estimate, the population of our country as at May 6 is 200,127,092, equivalent of 2.6 per cent of the world population, ranking number seven. By 2050, Nigeria would become the 3rd most populous country, with an estimated population of 410,637,888. Of note, majority of the humongous population will be in northern Nigeria. Tragically, that part of the country is lagging behind in education, not to talk of the cultural inhibition restraining women, who form a higher percentage of the working-age bracket, 15-64, from work and industry. According to The Guardian publication in 2017, the states of the northeast, northwest and north-central have majority of those who can neither read nor write. Amongst the laggards, Yobe State, one of the epicentre of the Boko Haram insurgency, had only 7.23 per cent, the lowest literacy level in Nigeria. Zamfara had 19.16, Kastina 10.36, Sokoto 15.01, Bauchi 19.26, Kebbi 20.51, Niger 22.88, per cents; while Taraba had 72 per cent as at 2017. Conversely, Imo State had the highest literacy level in Nigeria, at 96.43 per cent, while Lagos had 96.30, Ekiti 95.79, Rivers 95.76, Abia 94.24, Anambra 92.11, Osun 90.53, Enugu 89.46 and Cross River 89 per cents. Tragically, the situation since then had become even more precarious, with more states gradually becoming ungovernable. So, invariably, the illiteracy stats would get worse unless the security situation improves drastically. To make the already educationally disadvantaged states worse off, it is mainly in these states that the archaic cultural inhibition that puts majority of women in some form of restriction, estopping them from educational and economic activities, is still allowed by the government. According to The Guardian report, the states have received trillions of naira from the federation account over the years, with little to show for it. Indeed, Nigeria professes a universal basic education, which on paper means “free, universal and compulsory basic education for every Nigerian child aged 6-15 years.” That programme was launched in 1999, by the federal government, and it got a legal backing with the passage of Universal Basic Education Act in 2004. Yet, as at 2017, 18 years after the programme was launched, the northern states show such abysmal literacy level. Again, section 18(3) of the 1999  constitution as amended, eloquently provides: “Government shall strive to eradicate illiteracy, and to this end government shall as and when practicable provide: free compulsory and universal primary education, free university education, and free adult literacy programme.” As Dr Cecilia Okafor, superbly navigated the sometimes 300 degrees turn and twists of the Milliken Hill, in Enugu, where the vehicle carrying her father plunged into, in 1972, I was lost in thought at lost opportunities for the northern girl-child. Sensing the guilty patch on faces of the men in the vehicle, the other lady in the car, Justina Offor, threw in a cold relief. “Ogbueshu, (ie Prof Rich Okafor – Dr Cecilia’s husband), this car’s air conditioner is superb.” Thank you my dear, the Prof replied, I enjoy it most, each time I have the privilege of being chauffeured by Cecilia my wife. “Justina I hope you are listening” threw in Frank Offor, one of the other men. Cecilia’s story of exclusion mirrors the misfortune of women who are prevented from work and self-actualisation, even as men have proved inadequate as providers. This was barely two years after the Nigerian civil war, and though her father had a property in Enugu, nobody was living in the straggled building, so she had to go to the village, to wash the bandages, used to tend the broken leg of her father, from the Milliken Hill accident. “How could that man be so malicious and insensitive to my family tragedy, to order me to get out of sight, even when he saw the tons of bandage I was spreading”, she queried? Instead, “he accused me of hoping to catch a glimpse of the masquerade” as Imezi Owa celebrated Ogugochi. If she could lay a charge, the man would be charged for being contemptuous of women and for foolishly ordering her to be redundant, despite the burning urgency to save her father’s life. The ceremony Cecilia was driving to, was not gender discriminatory. We were journeying to Egede in Udi Local Government, for the continuation of the marriage ceremonies of Obudumma and Chibuko Ukeje. It was an occasion for Mrs Ngozi Tagbo, of Ezema Owa, the wife of late Nick Tagbo, (business mogul and political juggernaut) to give her enchantingly beautiful daughter, to the son of Dr Stan Ukeje of Central Bank of Nigeria and his amiable wife, in a three days grandiose ceremony, full of pomp and pageantry.