The annual Seamaster ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open has continued to attract world class players to Lagos, the commercial nerve-centre of Nigeria, in the last five years and this has made the tournament to be regarded as Africa’s elite table tennis championships. With the upgrading of the tournament to Challenge Plus by the world table tennis ruling body, chairman of the Main Organising Committee (MOC) of the tournament, Wahid Oshodi believes the quality of players coming this year would surely ignite the tournament. Specifically, the hosting of the African Club Championships and Cup alongside the Seamaster ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open, Oshodi says Nigerian fans are in for a super treat. For Oshodi, table tennis has made Lagos the ‘official’ home of the sport in Africa particularly with the consistent staging of the Seamaster ITTF Challenge Plus Nigeria Open and this he said would continue to help local players to test their might against the world’s best. “The knowledge and experience our home-based and young players gain from watching and playing against some of the best players in the world is invaluable. This in part makes up for the fact that our players lack the necessary exposure which comes from travelling and playing on the circuit. We have been seeing the gains of staging the tournament in the good performances of our younger players on the Junior Circuit. We can see players like Olajide Omotayo, Tobi Falana and Nurudeen Hassan who have improved tremendously to gain entry into the senior national team. Also importantly, thousands of passionate fans and recreational players get to see their heroes at close quarters, thus creating one of the most exciting events in our country,” Oshodi said. For 2019 edition, he said: “We expect a lot more top players. The tournament is now an ITTF Challenge plus tournament. Lots more prize money $60,000 and the most important is the increased points which all the players are aiming to get in a bid for Olympic qualification. This year also with three tournaments preceding the Nigeria Open it will be a fantastic festival of top-class table tennis. The Nigerian fans are in for a super treat.