THE Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) and the Southwest People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have warned over the growing insecurity in the Southwest. They condemned “the bitter tastes” being experienced by Yoruba sons and daughters in the hands of herdsmen and kidnappers. This came as a socio-cultural group, Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide (YCYW), called on militant herdsmen in the Southwest to move out. But, the YCE, also known as “Igbimo Agba Yoruba”, through its President, Dansaaki Col. S. Ade Agbede, called on Yoruba nation to  brace towards halting the ugly trend of insecurity. In a statement in Ibadan yesterday, the council asked that security issue should occupy the front-burner in the Southwest states henceforth. The YCE noted the abduction of a professor and lecturer at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife recently on Ibadan-Ife road as well as several killings of Yoruba’s sons and daughters on their farmlands by herdsmen to justify its worries. It insisted that the trend must stop. According to the group, “perhaps, the most challenging issue confronting the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is that of insecurity and it is not hidden, the various efforts being made. But, one is constrained to observe that the situation is degenerating and when such a situation arises, it needs a drastic solution. “As Yoruba elders and leaders in our own rights, we owe it a duty to speak up. There are said to be 1,123 cells belonging to armed Fulani herdsmen located across the Yoruba Nation. The cells are said to be well-organised and they are said to appear to network with each other as the cells may not be known, except that there have been increase in their organisational skills. “We are not oblivious of the great task of the military in nearly all parts of the North and some parts of the South against the insurgents and the bandits. This has made the military very stretched, thereby needing the understanding and cooperation of Nigerians to render a helping effort if only in intelligence gathering to forestall what appears like a planned invasion of Yoruba Nation. “This is part of the reasons why we are now calling on our people to be on guard and forge a common front to ensure the security of lives and property in our region. A released victim from herdsmen captivity said it unequivocally that Yoruba Nation is under siege as he recounted how about 10 armed men dressed in army uniform (camouflage) kidnapped him. The Southwest PDP urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to impress it on President Muhammadu Buhari on the need to safeguard the lives of Southwest people. A statement by its zonal spokesman, Ayo Fadaka, said insecurity across the length and breadth of the nation, particularly in Yorubaland, continued to grow in alarming proportions. It added that there was no sign that the President is prepared to bail the nation out of the orgies of violence, war, destruction and needless deaths by herdsmen. PDP said: “It is unfortunate to state that the Southwest is today under the siege of terrorists or herdsmen, who perpetrate criminal actions daily in the most unfettered manner. “In our region, kidnapping, assault and rape by these marauders remain unchecked. This lethargy has even emboldened them to even attack a traditional ruler in his palace, without repercussions, thus egregiously making a bold statement that we the Yorubas have become their captives. “This we condemn out-rightly as a direct assault, insult and desecration of our corporate heritage as Yoruba people. The YCYW, in a communique it released after a meeting of its members at the weekend in Ile-Ife in Osun State, lamented the growing insecurity in Yorubaland allegedly precipitated by militant herdsmen and members of the dreaded Islamic sect, Boko Haram. The communique signed by its president, Aremo Oladotun Hassan, accused militant herdsmen and Boko Haram members of killing and kidnapping people of Yoruba stock. It consequently, issued a seven-day ultimatum to the alleged perpetrators to move out of Southwest states or risk reprisal attack. The group said it issued the ultimatum over “flagrant brutal killings by the gun-wielding terrorist herdsmen/Boko Haram, aggressive invasion and violent attacks and alleged kidnapping of innocent Yorubas and Nigerians domiciled in Yorubaland, gross violation of fundamental rights to human dignity leading to serial and merciless killings of innocent youths, the rising wave of insecurity across the nation in Lagos around Ojokoro, Ibadan to Ife road, Ibadan to Ijebu Ode/Benin Ore road, Ekiti to Akure and other highways’ kidnappings and robberies”.