LICY: My name is Abdullahi, my PFA is Trustfund Pension. I have retired since 2014 and I have done my biodata in 2018 August; and after that I went to my PFA, Trustfund, to request for my 25 per cent of my total savings, but I was told that PenCom did not send money for MDAs. I am seriously now in need of money because my children’s school fees have become a problem. Please I need your quick response. Thanks. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist him further ABDULSALAM: My name is Abdulsalam, a staff of Yaba Local Council Development Area. I have been with Stanbic IBTC since its inception. But just this month my pension fund was transferred to Leadway PFA without my authorisation. Please what can I do because I want Stanbic IBTC as my pension manager. PENCOM: The relevant department would require the pin of the complainant in order to assist them further OLAYORI: Good day, my name is Olayori. I am a retiree of National Assembly Commission. I worked as a legislative aide to a former senator. We left National Assembly in 2011 and I have been collecting pension of the sum of N7872.87 monthly. However, since November last year, the payment has stopped. My pension company is Iei-Anchor Pensions. It will be appreciated if you could assist to find out why the payment stopped. PENCOM: The relevant department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further. ADIGUN: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee. The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners, who are Osun State government employees that retired from 2016 to date. None of these sets have received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem we are having is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs from time to time. Kindly look into this and advise us on the way out of this predicament. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further. IBRAHIM: My name is Ibrahim and I work with the Nigeria Immigration Service, a Deputy Superintendent of Immigration (DSI) by rank. My RSA initially was domiciled with the acquired Amana Pension Limited, that was at the time of my documentation at Gwagwalada Para-military Board in 2009. After registering with Amana before it folded up, my PIN was not given to me and I was left in the dark for quite a number of years until IPPIS made me to understand that Sigma Pension acquired Amana Pension. I contacted Sigma and complained. They advised me on a new RSA registration and after doing the registration and given the new pin number, they later called me and informed me of an old PIN that Amana never gave to me. Sigma later advised me to use the old pin, of which I agreed. My complaint now is that, as IPPIS started paying my salary, my pension deduction from Sigma is being updated based on the deduction from the commencement of IPPIS without the previous balance from my RSA hitherto domiciled with Amana. Please I need your help. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant In order to assist them further. Abdullahi. My name is Abdullahi Mohammed, My PFA is Trustfund, I have retired since 2014 and I have done my biodata in 2018 August. After that I went to my PFA, Trustfund, to request for 25 per cent of my total savings, but I was told that PenCom did not send money for MDA and I am seriously now in need of money because my children’s school fees is becoming a problem. please I need your quick response. Thanks. I want to know from Omobola pension solution when my friend who started working for the Federal Government at 21, and was retired at 39 paid gratuity; when will she be paid pension monthly? She was retired 12 years ago. She is now 51 without pension. When will she start receiving pension monthly? Thanks for your attention. PENCOM: The relevant Department would require the PIN of the complainant in order to assist them further