The people of Shao, Moro local government area of Kwara State have urged Governor-elect Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to right the wrongs of previous administrations in the state. They urged Abdulrazaq to pay attention to the specific needs of the people, both administratively and politically. In a statement, the President of Shao Awonga Forum, Elder Samuel Alabi said that “Kwara project has been bastardised by corrupt and selfish politicians in the saddle of governance over the years.” Shao Awonga Forum is a socio-cultural organisation of the people of Shao. The forum singled out Moro local government area as the backward local government areas, urging the governor-elect to discard the feudalist yoke under which the people of the council have suffocated over the years. The statement, which was signed by the Secretary of the forum, Dr. Reuben Akano, described the victory of the governor-elect as a manifestation of freedom from political captivity. The statement reads: “The resounding victory of all the All Progressives Congress (APC)’s candidates at all levels was borne out of the determination of Kwarans to shed off oppressive hegemony of a dynasty and chauvinism of their cohorts. The task of rebuilding Kwara state is enormous and it requires focus, innovation and courage on the part of the governor-elect and the APC team.” Alabi prayed God to grant the governor-elect wisdom and strength to succeed in his onerous task of rebuilding Kwara State. Also, a lecturer at the Department of Arabic, University of Ilorin, Dr Abdulsalam Ambali, urged Abdulrazaq, to prioritise the welfare of pensioners. He urged the incoming governor to consider the plights of pensioners and treat them as his own fathers. Delivering a paper on “Democracy and Good Governance: Islamic Perspective” at the third annual Ramadan lecture of Kwara State Council of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in Ilorin, he lamented the plight of the pensioneers and called for a new approach, to pension administration. Ambali, who described pensioners as senior citizens that rendered selfless services to their fatherland, said treating them uncharitably could dampen the morale of those currently in active service. He added: “As a matter of fact, it is very important that we advice those coming into power in the next few days in our dear state. For our Governor-elect, it is no longer news that the expectations of the people are very high. “But he needs to take as a priority the welfare of pensioners in the state. He should put the pensioners in his father shoes and treat them well if he wants to be successful. “Looking at the way our pensioners had been treated in the last few years, it was not good enough, and that is the more reason why the incoming administration must not tread on that same path. The retirees want to be seen as being treated well, because these are people who rendered selfless and meritorious services to their fatherland.” He urged the governor-elect to put an end to the prevalent thuggery and hooliganism among the youth in the state, stressing the need to engage them in veritable ventures with a view to equipping them for future purposes. 