The Computer Professionals (Registration Council of Nigeria (CIPN) has advised the Federal Government to invest in digital infrastructure to grow the economy. Its Registrar/Secretary to Council, Allwell C. Achumba, who spoke in Lagos yesterday ahead of the group’s 2019  IT Assembly scheduled for between June 26 and 27  at NICON Luxury Hotel, Abuja, said the availability of digital infrastructure will promote businesses  and boost the nation’s groos domestic product (GDP). He said: “We need as a nation to create wealth and sustain our prosperity through digital infrastructures by giving more people the knowledge and skills to compete, collaborate and connect in a way that drives our country forward.  Digital knowledge and skills have become the global currency of the 21st- Century economies. In this digital economy, there is no central bank that prints this currency. The thing that will keep you moving forward is always what you bring to the table yourself: your knowledge and skills. “Since Information Technology (IT) is the fulcrum of any thriving economy which cannot be ignored by the players in that economy, Council has chosen to focus on this invaluable tool that will propel our economy and prepare our industries for global competitiveness. CPN as an agency of government that regulates and controls the practice of IT practice in Nigeria is taking the bull by the horns.” Achumba said the theme of the conference is: Digital Infrastructure: Defining the Next Step. He said CPN was established through Act No 49 of 1993 gazetted on August 9  same year. It is a corporate entity that is charged with the regulation, control and supervision of the computing profession and practice in the country in line with Section 1 (2) of the Act. The Council is under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Education, with the National Assembly having/performing oversight functions over it. The Act 49 of 1993, referred to above, makes it mandatory for all persons and organisations seeking to engage, or engaged in IT training/Education, sale and/or use of computing facilities, and the provision of professional services in computational or related computational machinery in Nigeria to be registered by the Council and licensed to carry out such activities.