Ogun State governor-elect Prince Dapo Abiodun has restated his determination to develop and address the glaring infrastructural deficit in Ogun West Senatorial district. Abiodun said that remains the sure path to harness the zone’s potentials and improve the socio-economic fortunes of the people and the State at large. The successful entrepreneur and real estate player made this known when members of the occasion Yewa Development Forum(YDF) visited him at his Iperu country home, Ogun State. The YDF delegations led by a renowned Professor of history, Prof. Anthony Aaiwaju, who felicitated with Abiodun on his emergence as Governor elect, also used the occasion to intimate him about the sundry challenges facing the area, since the creation of the state, over 40 years ago. He lauded the team for their well- articulated presentation that showcased the background, challenges and needs of the Yewa-Awori axis of the State and assured that his administration would not toe the path of sectional governance. According to him, his administration would distribute evenly, government projects across all the senatorial districts without neglecting one for the other. He also listed Atan-Agbara road, Papalanto-Ilaro road, Sagamu-Lagos, Ijebu Ode-Epe road and other major roads across the state as matters that will be given utmost priority within his first year in office. He said: “I want to sincerely appreciate your team for a well- articulated presentation and I urge other communities to emulate your style. “Some weeks ago, Remo Development Forum also made this kind of presentation and it shows our people are more advanced and ready to ensure they contribute to the success of my administration. “Let me use this medium to reaffirm that my manifesto is not a coincidence but a well thought-out plans which would be implemented when I assume Office. “And with the reports of my Economic Transition Committee, we are set to take Ogun State to the next level. “We have compiled all the deplorable roads in all the 20 local governments of the State and the Public Works Department that will be reactivated will rehabilitate and reconstruct those roads as the case may be; from the first week of my administration. “Also, Atan-Agbara road, Papalanto-Ilaro road, Sagamu-Lagos, Ijebu Ode-Epe road and all other major roads you have outlined will be given utmost priority within our first year in office. “In the area of Agriculture, Ogun State is being projected to export farm produce to neighboring states within our first year in office thereby, creating jobs for our teeming youths and enhancing the prosperity of our farmers. Sports, tourism and natural resources of the State will be harnessed through public-private sector partnership.” The governor-elect also hinted that his administration would build a hospital of excellence in each Senatorial District and ensure that a Primary Health Centre is located in all the 236 Wards of the State. According to him, the security challenges facing the state will be aggressively tackled while border areas would be captured into physical planning and infrastructure, revenue and taxes via the proposed joint development commission between Lagos and Ogun States respectively. Earlier, Prof. Anthony Asiwaju hailed the success of of the Governor – elect at the poll, assuring that the zone would accord him its maximum support.