Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) Managing Director/Chief Executive Adebayo Somefun has promised workers better welfare. Speaking at a briefing in Lagos, he said the management ensured that registration of employers was completed in one day and the yearly compliance certificate issued within seven days. Certificates, he said, would  be issued online to boost efficiency. The Executive Director Operations, Mrs Kemi Nelson, said setting aside a special fund for  claims settlement remained topmost on the agenda of the management. To her, such step would ensure injured workers get compensation and those that require rehabilitation get the needed medical attention promptly. A former Trade Union Congress (TUC) President, Peter Esele, who lauded the management team for remaining forward-looking and refused to be distracted by the non-inauguration of the board, said  matters relating to the inauguration and the attendant politics should be discarded forthwith. He said: “Now that the President has declared that Austin Enajemo-Esire should chair the board of NSITF, the matter should be closed because it is the prerogative of the President to decide who chairs the board. Now that there is a board, it is my expectation that it would manage the fund to the best of its ability and do better than the previous board.” He said it is the responsibility of the two members representing the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to ensure that the interest of the workers were protected. He added: “Whoever is representing the NLC on the NSITF board is there to carry out some sorts of oversight functions. A lot of things happened during the tenure of the last board in the presence of labour representatives. What were they doing then? Why didn’t they shout when things were not done properly for Nigerians to know? It is not good enough that their names were not mentioned as people that committed infractions. So, labour must examine itself.” At the event were the Executive Director Administration, Tijani Darazzo; and his Finance and Investment counterpart, Jasper Azutalam