During the holy month of Ramadan, it is important to eat a balanced diet and keep hydrated before and after the day of fasting. Mild dehydration can result in fatigue, dry mouth, thirst and headaches. It is vital to drink enough fluid on a fast. Drinking the typical eight cups per day is important, but there are other things to remember to help you stay hydrated. Here are some tips to help you avoid dehydration when you’re fasting. As much as we love our coffee and tea, these drinks contain caffeine. Caffeine has a diuretic effect that increases urine production, thus flushing out salt and water from the body. Too much caffeine can result in increased thirst, so to stay hydrated throughout the day, it’s best to stick to water or fresh fruit juices. Eating fruits and vegetables aren’t just good for your health, but they help with hydration too. Fresh fruits and vegetables are rich in water and fiber. They stay in the intestines for a long time and reduce thirst. If you don’t want to eat the vegetables as they are, try incorporating them into a salad as part of your meal when you break fast. Spicy and salty foods can increase your body’s need for water, because they cause water retention. If you’re cooking during this period, try not to use too much salt or too many spices. Drinking your water in one go will cause your body to flush it out soon after. It’s best to sip water throughout the non-fasting hours of the day. But ultimately, do make sure to get enough water during the non-fasting hours to avoid dehydration. Exposure to heat is inevitable, but do try to avoid the heat as much as possible. Hot temperatures will cause sweating, resulting in fluid loss. Try to limit your time outdoors and stick to the shade or cool environments. Cold showers help in many ways to rehydrate you during the month of Ramadan.
You should try to lower your body temperature in any way possible. Spend 5-10 minutes with the base of your head under direct cool water. It is important to know that drinking iced water to break your fast does not replenish your thirst but can cause your blood vessels to contract and cause indigestion.
For this reason, it is recommended that you drink water at room temperature or slightly cold if you prefer to.