The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, yesterday said the Armed Forces were not indicted by the presidential investigative panel on allegations of violations of international humanitarian law and law of armed conflicts in the fight against terrorism in the Northeast. The CDS spoke yesterday while inaugurating the committee to collate existing Rules of Engagement for the Armed Forces at the Defence headquarters (DHQ) in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Olonisakin said the military had been abiding by and would continue to abide by international best practices and standards in the theatre of military operations. He said the inauguration of the committee was necessitated by the need to holistically review existing Rules of Engagement and Trainings as a follow-up to the work of the presidential panel. The CDS, who was represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans at DHQ, Air Vice Marshal Nurudeen Balogun, urged the committee to take critical stock of the existing Rules of Engagement in order to make them conform with international best practices and accepted norms. Olonisakin advised the committee to collate and distil views from professionals, practitioners and other stakeholders in the military and civil societies, adding that robust training of military personnel on the issue would add impetus to their conducts during operations. He said: “It is my view that we must carry out our constitutionally assigned tasks to the best of our abilities and trainings with the mind-set that the fundamental rights to life of innocent citizens are sacrosanct. Members of the Armed Forces of Nigeria must be properly trained and equipped in this aspect to imbibe the confidence and competence necessary to do their work diligently and professionally.” The Deputy Head of Delegation of the International Committee of the Red Cross, Mr Jean-Francois Queguiner, hailed the CDS for the initiative.  The Red Cross chief recalled that there had been an outcry against military’s alleged violations of human rights in the Northeast in the past two years.  