An Elderstatesman in Ebonyi state, Geoffery Mgbada, was killed in the early hours of Tuesday by suspected members of Vehicle Inspection Officers, VIO who were along Presco-Ezza road, Abakaliki. The deceased, who was said to be driving with his wife, was intercepted by the VIO officials an argument ensued, which led to one of them to push him. He reportedly fell and hit his head on the concrete road, leading to his death. It was gathered he was rushed to the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki where he was confirmed dead and later deposited in the hospital’s mortuary. Until his death, he was the Secretary of Ebonyi State Elders Council. Governor David Umahi confirmed the incident and called for the arrest of the prosecution of the VIO officials. Umahi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Emmanuel Uzor described the death of the elder statesman as callous. He ordered a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death. Part of the statement reads:  “The Governor on hearing about the death of Chief Mgbada expressed great sadness and ordered the Commissioner of Police to arrest and prosecute the suspects who paraded themselves as VIO Officials. ‘Let it be known that the Governor in a town-hall meeting with Ebonyians proscribed all task-force agents working under any guise using the state government as cover. “In the proscription order, the Governor also dissolved all revenue and tax agents in the state at all levels with a promise to convoke another town hall meeting where a new tax and other revenue will be deliberated and agreed upon and the Governor is yet to convene this meeting before this ugly incident. “The Governor is saddened by this careless death and wishes to dissociate the state government from the illegal activities of the VIO and other task force agents in the state and directs for immediate arrest and prosecution of such illegal tax or revenue agents.“ Umahi further commiserated with the family of the deceased and vowed to ensure that justice is done. He urged members of the public to resist illegal revenue agents as the only body legally permitted to collect revenue on behalf of the government is the newly inaugurated Board of Internal Revenue. The statement further added that two members of the team were immediately arrested by the anti -kidnapping unit of the Nigeria Police while the leader of the team, an old man was equally arrested.