First civilian governor of Lagos State Alhaji Lateeef Jakande, has been bestowed with a Fellow of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Oto/Ijanikin.It was at the combined convocation of the institution on Tuesday. A total of 5,674 graduands across NCE full time, School of Part Time programme and Centre for Outreach programme, bid farewell to their alma mater. Jakande was honoured for his developmental strides while in office and for single handedly directing the relocation of the college from Surulere to its present location. Other personalities equally awarded include: chairman House Committee on Education  Lagos State House of Assembly Lanre Ogunyemi,  Senator representing Lagos West Solomon Olamilekan  Adeola, Prof Cornelius Fasan of the Faculty of Education, Lagos State University, as well as a businessman Fatai Adegboyega . Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode expressed his happiness for attending the college for the first time. Ambode, who was represented by the Commissioner for Agriculture Toyin Suarau, underscored the commitment of the state in funding  education. Said Ambode: “Despite the plethora of laudable programmes competing for scarce resources of our dear state, our administration has not shirked our responsibilities to the tertiary education sub sector. We increased subventions and grants to schools including this great college. We are also committed to prompt release of subventions, improved infrastructures and quality assessment, teacher quality and other welfare packages for staff, among others.” Chairman of the college Governing Council, Prof Tunde Samuel, recalled the pitiable state of the college when he took over the Council in 2015. Upon a gentle request, Samuel said the governor promptly increased the school subventions from N120 to N200 million. Following that, he said the institution embarked on restructuring and blocking  pipes that were being used by some elements to siphon money illegally in the 61 year-old institution. .”Even though the battle is till ongoing, it is my pleasure to inform you that the college has been set on the right path. The institution is now run with probity, transparency and accountability with high standard of teaching and a culture for sustained learning,”Samuel added. The Provost, Dr Aina Ladele, also lauded the government for deploying enough resources that ensured all the 31 programmes run by the institution were granted full accreditation last year.