Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank on Sunday issued a seven-day ultimatum to the upper chamber of the National Assembly to make public their investigations on the former chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Alhaji Abdulrasheed Maina. Frank said in a statement made available to The Nation that if after seven days, the Senate failed to make their report public; he will be forced to drag the red chamber to court. An ad hoc committee was set up by the Senate to investigate the dismissed on how Maina got into the country and got back into the civil service after leaving the shores of Nigeria and reports that he was on EFCC wanted list for about two years. Frank also condemned what he called persecution of the President of the Senate Bukola Saraki by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), saying “Since it is an era of fighting corruption, all hands must be on deck. The Senate must reveal to the general public what its committee discovered during the investigation of former Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce on Pension, Abdulrasheed Maina. “I have, however, prepared my lawyers to sue the Nigerian Senate if its ad hoc committee fails to make public the outcome of its investigation in the next seven days. This is necessary for the nation Nigeria to know who are her real enemies and those who have served her diligently”. While condemning the sealing of residential houses located in Ikoyi, Lagos, owned by Senate President, Bukola Saraki, by the EFCC, Frank said “these same houses were the reason the Senate President was earlier investigated by the same EFCC and later dragged to the Code of Conduct Tribunal, the case went all the way to the Supreme Court of Nigeria where Sen. Bukola Saraki was discharged and acquitted, it goes to show that APC’s administration has shown that, it is a lawless government. “Nigerians at all level must speak up against injustices in the land. We must help the clueless government of APC in the fight against corruption. Political persecution should not be seen as right against corruption.”