Lagos State emerged the overall best state at the 2019 National Junior Engineers, Technicians, and Scientists, (JETS) competition held at the Federal Government College, Keffi, Nasarawa State. The state team won 11 trophies – four of which were the star trophies- Overall Best State, Best Female JETS, Free Choice Project (Senior Category) and Basic Technology Competition. The state also won second place trophies in the Interstate Quiz Competition, Free Choice Project (Junior category), Chemistry Quiz Competition, Junior Mathematics Competition among others. Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr Idiat Adebule praised the team for making the state proud when she got the news.  She was happy that last year, Lagos won 10 trophies and seven medals to emerge the second overall best state at the 2017 edition of the competition. She said when she received the 2017 team, she told the pupils     and their teachers that she was not comfortable with the second position because as the Centre of Excellence, Lagos State could not afford to trail behind any other state. “My joy knows no bound that you took the challenge seriously and have delivered the star trophy.  I congratulate you and wish all of you the best as a group and as individual students,” she said. The National JETS competition is organised annually to popularise the teaching and learning of Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in schools and expose young talents to the world beyond their locality. The competition organised by the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja, involves representatives from all 36 states and the FCT who keenly contested in written/quiz competitions in Biology, Mathematics, Basic Technology, Physics, Chemistry, Basic Science, Agricultural Science, Computer Science and Project Exhibitions during the competition. The students who represented the state at the event were from both the private and state public schools. The theme of this year’s competition was: Alternative Source of Energy for National Development.