No one looks forward to a fire outbreak. However, fires do not need anybody”s permission to gut through houses or shops or offices. This is why it is necessary to learn all about what to do should you ever find yourself trapped during a fire outbreak. GET PREPARED
It is important that you make adequate preparations for such occurrences. Knowing what to do if a fire does break out can help minimize damage and maximize your chances of survival.
Make sure your family members and workers know and memorize at least two potential exits from every room in the building. Normally, the primary escape route is the front door. The back door and windows are also alternative routes. Study these routes and ensure there are measures in place to help with escaping. STAY LOW
The heat of fire causes the flames to rise, which makes the air closer to the floor, breathable. So staying low is a very good way not to get knocked unconscious as a result of lack of oxygen.
You can then crawl your way out through your set out escape routes. BE CAREFUL
Be careful not to open doors abruptly. First, check if smoke is coming fiercely from under the door or check with the back of your hand if the doorknob is hot. If this is the case, change to your alternative escape route. However, if fortunately, the doorknob is cool, brace your shoulder against the door before you twist the handle to prevent the door from blowing open due to air pressure differences on either side. PROTECT YOURSELF
If the route to reach safety is filled with smoke, protect yourself from inhaling damaging gasses by wrapping a piece of cloth around your mouth and nose. If you have access to water, wet the cloth before wrapping your nose and mouth. This will help filter larger smoke and soot particulates. IMPROVISE
In cases where all escape routes are cut off, look for a window. If you have to break the glass to get through, smash out the lower corners with a blunt, heavy object. Cover the exposed edges with thick clothing, bedding or cushions before going through. You can toss a few cushions to help with your landing. STAY SAFE
Once you make it outside, do not go back inside for anything. Seek medical attention immediately to treat wounds or burn as well as rule out any internal damage. While it is relieving to escape a fire outbreak, it is better to prevent it entirely. Make sure your gas cylinders are locked after each use, make sure you do not light candles beside curtains or papers, and ensure all electrical wirings are properly done.