In a well-structured system, Abduljabar Sani, the exciting midfielder and captain of the ill-fated Golden Eaglets that failed to qualify for the 2017 edition of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), should have been in the Flying Eagles squad at the on-going FIFA U-20 World Cup in Poland. As it’s widely said, failure is indeed as orphan Since Sani-led Golden Eaglets were acrimoniously  edged out by Niger on a close 3-2 aggregate hence a whole generation of talented players including free-scoring Usman Babalolo and  fleet-footed Ishaq Abdulrasaq naturally missed out  of the radar. “ It  was unfortunate that our set failed to qualify for the U-17 AFCON in 2017 but I’m happy to have passed through the process of playing for the national team,” the ever-smiling Sani who is currently with  Sport Benfica Castelo Branco in the Campeonato de Portugal (championship of Portugal)  stated matter-of-factly.“ Having the opportunity to play for  the Golden Eaglets has really helped my career because  you have an edge in Europe if you  had featured for the national team. “Even before I came to Europe, scouts were searching for me because I played for the national team; I’m currently on loan at Benfica Castelo Branco from FC Vizela  and  I’m happy that I’m playing well here.” Recruited from  Jos-based G-Smart Academy, Sani was  one of the mainstays of the Golden Eaglets and his leadership quality was there for all to see as coach Manu Garba favoured his choice as captain. “We have been watching all the players over time and there is no doubt that Abduljabar has been very outstanding in terms of performance and general attitude amongst his colleagues,” explained Garba. “He is level-headed, neat and we have also seen in him leadership qualities since  he mixes freely with other players.” Sani is indeed a happy-go-lucky lad both on and off the pitch and he reckons playing football is about the  best thing to have happened to his life. “ I started playing football since when I started my primary school education,” he explained. “ So, I would say it’s something I loved right from the start  and my mother told me that I was not always ready to go school unless I have a small ball in my bag. “I did my Nursery and Primary School at  Blessed Child Private School in Jos  while I had  my Secondary  school at  Al- Ikhlass Secondary school. “As I said before,  I don’t know  exactly when I started playing football but I know my first academy was 3SC of Jos. “ Even when I grew up, I would rather prefer to go and play football than to do any other thing; I don’t see anything I would have done in life that would give me  than playing football. “My father and an uncle  were the first  people that gave me a lot of encouragement. There are two other people that have major influence in my career  and  first on the list is Coach Usman of 3SC of Jos and Isiya Lampard and I’m most grateful to God for my steady progress.” Two years ago, Sani was in a quartet of young players  along with Isah Musa, Emmanuel Kuku and Zakari Yaro recruited by  Portuguese third division side Vizela but  was farmed out on loan to Benfica Castelo Branco. “I am on loan to Benfica Castelo Branco and it  is  a year-long  loan; I’m happy to be here and I like the players of the club because we live like a family;  we help each other and I also like the management of the club because they have  really encouraged me.” Sani was born into a large polygamous family with 21 children from three women and he reckons  the communal lifestyle has helped him to appreciate  the essence of good neighbourliness. Sani said:  “I grew up in Jos Plateau state and I live in Rikkosýan cement. We have a big family because my father has three  wives; and we are 11 boys and 10 girls. This has really helped me to appreciate people. “I am the only one playing football in my family and my idol is  Xavi Hernandez. “I like people that help the poor and I dislike those that disappoint people. A lot of things make me happy. But the one that makes me happy most is being able to help those who are in need if I have the capacity. I’m happy when I can assist people. “Of course, the things that make me cry always are when someone is dead and we take him to his final home which is grave. I’m usually sad when someone I love so much is dead,” stated Sani.