Dr. Osifo Samson Igbinoba, renowned accountant and financial management expert, sits atop as the Principal Partner of Osifo Samson & Co., a financial, management and tax consulting firm. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, the Olabisi Onabanjo University trained accountant who has two separate PhDs in Credit Management and Financial Economics, speaks on the nation’s tax ecosystem, including withholding taxes vis-à-vis the prospects and challenges of collecting taxes. Excerpts: There is a lot of controversy surrounding the collection of withholding taxes with fears rife in some quarters that the country is losing a lot of revenue to non-remittance of such taxes. What is your take on this? The fact is taxation is primarily concerned with collection of income for government at all levels. Withholding tax falls under unearned income.  As the name implies, unearned incomes are incomes you earn effortlessly as it were. It’s just your liquidity or money that brings such income to you otherwise known as u unearned income, which comes to individuals or corporate bodies, the government is expected to be paid at least 10 per cent from such unearned income. Any investments you have you’re expected to pay 10 per cent of it. Unearned incomes are incomes forms of rents. Now I can tell you for instance that most of the houses in Lagos, the landlords are not paying 10 per cent to government coffers. We have so many investments in banks. For instance, our fixed deposit at the banks are also forms of investment as such if the banks are paying you for your investment a withholding tax of 10 percent is deducted at source. Besides, the dividend that companies pay, at least 10 per cent withholding tax is also deducted at source. Anything that is related to investment comes under unearned income and it is been taxed. The problem with collection of withholding tax is that most of our state governors don’t look inwards. The banks are deducting the withholding tax and stamp duties but fail to remit it. It’s because we don’t have a structure in place. Before your dividends come to you the banks would have deduct the withholding tax. Most individuals and corporate bodies are expected to pay withholding tax to the government at the state and federal levels. What we need to do is to track the collection of withholding tax in the banks to ascertain the number of customers they charge withholding tax. In the course of our work with one state government (name withheld), we discovered that the state was being owed about N2.5b unremitted. From your investigation, how much withholding tax receipts can a state government collect in a year for instance? I can tell you categorically that a state can generate about N100b from withholding taxes on a monthly basis. The thing you need to understand is that most times interests from withholding taxes are calculated monthly. An average Nigerian has a fixed deposit with the bank and also does one or two businesses with the banks. Normally, the account holder would have instructed his bank to start dropping his interest at the end of every month and of course, the banks in their usual way would have deducted the withholding tax from source. But the question is who collects these withholding taxes? Withholding tax is also referred to as at source tax. You can’t avoid paying withholding tax because it is deducted before your money is paid to you. The thing is that we don’t have a structure when it comes to rent because the landlord is taking. If you are investing a fixed deposit with the banks for instance, before the income gets to you, the bank collects the withholding tax of 10 per cent. So the question is who is getting the withholding tax from the banks? The state government needs to look inwards. They cannot do it all alone and that is why we have consultants everywhere to really sit down with them and really close mark all these banks. If a withholding tax is related to individuals, it goes to the state on the other hand if it is related to a company; it goes to the federal government. The same thing with stamp duty too so most individuals are transacting businesses on a daily basis. So if the House of Reps is instituting a probe over who collects withholding tax or stamp duty tax, on what is being generated by the state and federal governments, I think it is a right step in the right direction. To be able to do this, the lawmakers need to close mark the banks. Initially we had 24 banks and just recently we had another three, making 27. The House of Reps should mandate the banks to tell them how many Nigerians have accounts in their banks. It is not just to call a director and say we have investors and these are the money. No, it won’t work. They also need to engage consultants too.  I recall once my team and I worked with a state government to track their unremitted withholding taxes illegally warehoused by some banks. We were able to trace them. I recalled at the time that it was well over N2.5 billion. Frankly speaking before the state can be positioned to collect withholding taxes thy must as a matter of urgency have a clear understanding of what withholding tax is all about. What is the global view of how much the state or federal governments lose due to non-remittance of within taxes? I can tell you that withholding is over N100billion. Is this what the country is supposed to be collecting annually? No withholding tax is not an annually deduction. It’s a monthly thing. For instance, if I put a fixed deposit in the bank, I could tell them please drop my interest every month, so every month the state or federal government keeps making money off me. An average successful Nigerian man has a fixed deposit in banks as well as some businesses deals with the banks, but the question is who is collecting their withholding taxes at the end of the day? It might shock you to know that the federal government appears not so keen in collecting withholding taxes because someone is collecting it on their behalf. As I said, the N100billion is to be collected for each states of the federation. I’m not talking about how much accrues to the federal government now. Each state is supposed to be collecting at least N100billion. Are you saying withholding tax is an area the government needs to take more seriously like the stamp duty? The question we should be asking is how much have we even generated from the collection of stamp duty? We need to understand what is obtainable here. Now when you’re talking about withholding tax, it is only when you want to apply sentiments into tax collection that is when you will begin to reduce the amount of money you are going to earn at the end of the day. Now let’s assume each rent you pay to your landlord in Lagos, they pay 10 per cent of that to government, how can you imagine the number of revenue that you will bring into the coffers of government? All houses in Lagos that are being commercialised and the landlord is paying 10 per cent, the state government. That is what the law says. Any investment you have the interest accruing from the investment you are expected to pay 10 per cent on it. So if I have invested N50million and they are giving me N5million, I’m expected to pay N500, 000 to the state government. If you take that to the bank, the bank would remove it because it is at source tax. So what we are saying in essence is this, the state government need to close mark and get their personnel trained on how to track withholding tax collection. So why you are collecting rent, you know that your agent is also removing  On the long run, state government can generate an average of N100billion only on withholding tax. If you look at a place like Lagos, especially highbrow areas in Victoria Island, Ikoyi, Lekki, to mention just a few, if you look at the amount of money they use to pay house rent per annum, 10 per cent rate technically should go to the state government. Do you think the probe by the lawmakers is the right step in the right direction? Yes we need to stand something. The probe alone will enlighten the people on what goes on. The probe alone will also make some people to sit right and put in place some control measures for people who have not been paying. The probe alone will also give the banks a signal that it may not be business as usual again and the fact that they will now need to pay withholding tax once they collect same. So I support the probe wholeheartedly because indirectly it is also going to get more income into the state. Of course, the probe will not solve all the issues on withholding tax but at least, it will try to control the excesses involved with withholding tax. In your own view who do you think is more appropriate to manage the receipts and collections of withholding tax? There are tax experts that are trained to do that. I made mention of an assignment I carried out on behalf of a state some time ago. What we did at the time is that we went to the banks and we reconciled those things with them and at the end of the day we were able to recover over N2.5billion. But I’m aware that under the law, use of is not encouraged because when you use consultants you are required to pay them certain percentage. The argument in some quarters is that government also loses revenue to consultants in that process. What is your response to this? See, the thing is this; we need to understand certain things. As far as I’m concerned, poor attitude, ignorance are some of the reasons why for us to grow as a country it will take a while. Now, if you sick, you use the best doctor. Now if you are going to a doctor and you’re taking an assumption that it’s just simple headache, I will apply paracetamol. You may actually have high blood pressure, kidney failure and other complications which you may not have been aware of and it can be cured. But because you’re trained in that regard to carry out the diagnosis on your own, you do need the help of a doctor to do this for you and save you from yourself. Anything you want to do in life, you look at the value, the cost benefit analysis. What I’m trying to say in essence is this, if you don’t want to engage the services of consultants to look at the loopholes for you and help you get a relief for, you stand to lose a lot at the end.  So as I said, you have to look at the core values that correlate with the objective you’re pursuing. You see when you don’t want to spend money, you can never make progress. So other words you subscribe to the use of consultants to collect taxes on behalf of government? Absolutely. Can you give an estimate of what the federal government can earn from the collection of withholding taxes? It’s a lot. From rent alone the federal government can rake in billions on a monthly basis. All the Government Reserved Areas across the country are owned by the federal government.