The yearly Upgrade Conference organised by Eden Kingdom Ministry has held in Lagos. It is a platform for young professionals to meet experts to advance their careers and businesses, Daniel Essiet reports. THE yearly Upgrade Conference, an initiative of Eden Kingdom Ministry, led by Pastor Akin Akinpelu, has held in Lagos. It is aimed at helping youths to embrace entrepreneurhip. The programme connects youths and founders, and provided start-up owners with opportunities for growth. It focused on media, ministry, career, business, human resources, fashion and agriculture. Key players were selected across  some industries to lead the discussion. Akinpelu said the forum was aimed at discovering and developing talents who could contribute to the economy. He noted that empowering youths would  help them to acquire knowledge and leadership skills. One of the keynote speakers was the Group Chief Executive of MTech PLC, Chika Nwobi, who founded the firm at 22 years. With $300,000 as capital from Lateef Belo-Osagie, a  media entrepreneur Chris Ubosi and others, Nwobi  recruited fresh Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) graduates and founded MTech Communications. The company has grown to become the leading mobile content firm in Africa with branches in Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Nwobi also established Level 5 Lab (L5Lab) – a venture development firm – that has incubated several successful African tech companies, including Jobberman.com – Africa’s largest online jobs portal and Cheki.com.ng, Nigeria’s leading cars/autos website. He has been able to guide the two firms to attract significant investments from international private equity firms. Nwobi reiterated that he was passionate about the education and development of youths. He said he targets people with  good business ideas and funds them. But at the beginning, the journey was rough. He recalled that he had to forgo the opportunity of picking a well-paying job in the United States to return to Nigeria to pursue his dream of becoming an entrepreneur. For him, an entrepreneur thrives by failing and embracing failure, as well as knowing how to fall and stand up again. Nwobi said there were opportunities for young Nigerians to build successful tech companies. To assist them explore emerging opportunities, he is committed to training them. He has established Decagon Institute, an elite software engineering institution that will train the most -talented applicants in Nigeria, even if they cannot pay. He said graduates  would  be placed in jobs as software engineers in top companies in Nigeria and abroad and will be asked to pay a portion of their income to the institute. He noted that Nigeria has the potential to be a global powerhouse in software development and Decagon is determined to make it this reality. Nwobi aims to train 5000 world- class software engineers in five years as part of his mission to transform Nigeria into one of the most respected sources of elite software engineering talent in the world. Another speaker was Founder, Joy Inc., a teaching and media firm, Chude Jideonwo. Jideonwo is co-founder, and Managing Partner, Red Media Africa, which owns Africa’s largest portfolio of youth media brands, such as The Future Africa Awards & Summit, Y! Africa, and YNaija.com. Jideonwo is the founding Executive Director of The Future Project, which empowers youths across Africa through leadership and enterprise. A lawyer, Jideonwo observed  that young Nigerians prefer to wait for government jobs rather than seek the opportunity to create decent jobs for themselves. However, he said this must  change, urging them to start their own business. He said though Nigeria is going through tough times, entrepreneurs could create new jobs to reduce the  unemployment rate. He believes that the first step to implementing a business idea is research to know whether the idea could be developed into a business.