In his first 100 days in office, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will be expected to justify the confidence reposed in him by All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders and the electorate. Sanwo-Olu is expected to surmount the numerous challenges facing the Centre of Excellence as a result of its increasing population. It is estimated that an average of 6,000 persons from various parts of the country come into Lagos dail, Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI reports. GIVEN the foundation that has been laid in the last 20 years of civil rule in Lagos State,  Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has no choice but to emulate his predecessors in office, by continuing from where they stopped, in terms of delivery of democracy dividends to the people. Lagos, otherwise known as the Centre of Excellence, has witnessed massive development in the last 20 years, largely due to the implementation of the Master Plan initiated by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who governed the state from May 29, 1999 to May 29, 2007. The contribution of the various leaders since 1999 has brought the state, so far, to its present level as 5th largest economy in Africa. As a first-time governor, Sanwo-Olu has to win the confidence of the people within the shortest possible time, by reassuring them that they voted for the right man. Like other first-time governors, the new Lagos State helmsman has the onerous task of translating his campaign promises to action. Lagosians who voted him are not expecting anything less than good governance and the implementation of programmes that will impact on their lives. Lagos is a city with enormous opportunities and potential. A cultural melting pot, it is estimated that an average of 6,000 persons from various parts of the country come into Lagos daily. Thus, the city is only growing in population but without corresponding infrastructure development. For instance, owing to the attendant challenges in getting affordable housing, many Lagosians have moved to rural areas, creating new belts of settlements. The United Nations (UN) defines a megacity as a city with a population of 10 million or more people. Lagos, which has a population of about 18 million, is faced with numerous challenges as a result of its increasing population. One of such challenges is that of managing its waste generation and disposal. When Sanwo-Olu assumes office, he will be confronted with heaps of refuse. There is no part of Lagos which is not littered with refuse and it is just a miracle that epidemic has not broken out in the city. The challenge of clearing Lagos streets of dirt is one headache that he will have to contend with. The governor will also inherit the nuisance of commercial motorcycle operators, otherwise known as Okada riders, and truck drivers that are currently terrorising residents. Okada riders now take the liberty to ply roads and highways that they are prohibited from plying under the Lagos Traffic Law. Besides, the way they go about their businesses on the roads has been described as sheer madness by observers. They don’t obey traffic rule. They always drive against traffic, and thereby cause accidents and molest people who dare to challenge them. Truck drivers also constitute a menace on the roads. Sanwo-Olu will also have to tackle other challenges, such as ending the protracted Apapa gridlock, youth unemployment, insecurity, the growing incidence of building collapse and housing, waste management, flooding, transportation, easing of the perennial traffic gridlock in parts of the city, healthcare and education. The incoming governor is expected to deal with some of these challenges. For instance, whenever it rains, several roads in the city usually get flooded and successive governments in the past have tried unsuccessfully to tackle the drainage problem, which is a major concern for residents. The poor drainage system is damaging the megacity-narrative which the Lagos State government is presenting to the world. The government has continued to heap the blame on houses and office structures built without proper and legal city permits, as well as poorly planned drainage systems. The government has further cited the residents’ poor waste disposal habits as another reason for the repeated flood as most of the streets are littered with waste which often ends up blocking street drainages and causing a flood. Highbrow areas are not left out. From Lagos Island, a major business district, to highbrow Victoria Island, Ikoyi, and Lekki, floods have been a recurring problem. Even with the paved roads in these areas, the streets get flooded; no thanks to shallow, dirt-littered street gutters, which are sometimes blocked. The task before Governor Sanwo-Olu is to match his campaign promises with action. During the electioneering campaign, he promised to find a lasting solution to the growing problem of building collapse. Most houses on the island are old residential buildings now being used for commercial purposes, which require higher load than the original design capacity. Buildings are marked for demolition, but for inexplicable reasons such directives are not implemented and people endanger their lives by continuing to occupy them. So, the government needs to come up with ways of ensuring strict compliance with building laws and regulations. As part of the solution to the perennial traffic gridlock, there is need for an efficient public transport system. The introduction of the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) scheme has been hailed, but more work needs to be done to improve other transport modes.  Efforts have started in this regard, but what has been achieved is like a drop of water in the ocean. For instance, since the city is surrounded by water, facilities are now being put up to increase the use of the waterways, with boats and ferries to transport people from one point to the other. Lagos APC Chairman, Mr. Tunde Balogun, assured that the incoming administration will intensify efforts in this regard. He said: “On transportation, we want to make use of some mode of transportation through water, roads, bridges and railway that will be interconnectivity. “Like, if you are coming with rail from Mile 2 going to CMS, there will be a terminus at a stop where you can be transfer to a bus. Getting out from the boat or ferry through water system to CMS and getting to a bus which will take you to other parts of Lagos. Also, we would ensure that the railway becomes one of the main modes of transportation in Lagos that can convey a lot of people at once from a point and take a large number of workers from that point in Lagos to other parts. “Also, for the health system, we want to have a comprehensive health insurance scheme for Lagosians so that when you pay the premium for the insurance, you will have access to free medical treatment locally and this is part of the comprehensive health insurance scheme we are talking about. Also for the schools, we want to rehabilitate all our schools and ensure to have quality teachers with constant training with all teachers. “We want to have a lot of hospitals that will be well equipped. We want to improve the personnel of hospitals and to improve the facility there. We want modern equipment for the facility in our hospitals. We want to train the health workers, including doctors, nurses and all health officers in the hospitals. We want to ensure that our public schools are the best, that is to have quality teachers and the kind of education given to our children must be standard. “Also, we want to ensure that our housing programmes are second to none. We want to have a programme that will be a multi-modern system.” Governor Sanwo-Olu has been enjoined to learn from the mistakes of his predecessor. Ideally, government is a continuum and an incoming administration is expected to continue with the projects and policies of the preceding administration. But the outgoing governor was alleged to have starved several projects of funds immediately he took over power. He also scrapped several policies and projects of the Fashola administration. This gave the impression that he has more or less abandoned the Lagos Master Plan initiated by Asiwaju Tinubu. Already, the pace of work has slowed down significantly at the sites of some of the major road projects, such as the Murtala Muhammed Airport road, the Pen Cinema Bridge in Agege, and the Abule Egba/Oshodi road. Ambode had promised to deliver the Airport Road project in 15 months. It was to be expanded from four to 10 lanes and work commenced in September 2017. Also, the Agege Pen Cinema Bridge initially had a December 2018 completion date. In this regard, Sanwo-Olu promised during the electioneering campaign that he will strike a balance between being a good governor and a good party man and that he would run an inclusive government, according to the ideology of the party and the long-term benefits of the people of Lagos. An APC member in Iju-Ishaga, Ifako Ijaiye Local Government, Alhaji Taofik Adisa Lawal, believes Sanwo-Olu has what it takes to take Lagos to the “Next Level” of development, as a man who has served the state in senior positions since the advent of the Fourth Republic in 1999. His words: “Sanwo-Olu has always been in government since Asiwaju’s time. So, he cannot be a novice to all that has been happening. “When former Governor Babatunde Fashola came in, he had good programmes, but he did not have the backing of the politicians. But, he listened to the people who were advising him. That is why he got it right. He even went to those that have been in power in Lagos before Asiwaju, like Alhaji Lateef Jakande and Gen. Mobolaji Johnson. “Sanwo-Olu has been in politics for some time, unlike outgoing Governor Akinwunmi Ambode who was a civil servant before he was given the opportunity to serve as the governor of Lagos State. He will certainly get the support of the people. “But, he has to be careful. If he follows the footsteps of Ambode, by not following the master plan, he might have problems. Ambode deviated when he refused to continue and complete the projects started by his predecessor in office; he abandoned many of the projects started by Fashola. If Sanwo-Olu remains committed to the implementation of the master plan, he will get all the support of Lagosians. “Secondly, if he decides to sack permanent secretaries in the civil service and bring in his own people, as Ambode also did, it will not auger well for him. It was inexperience that led Ambode to do that, because he wanted to be the alpha and the omega of the government. Many of the permanent secretaries he sacked were his senior when he was in the civil service. If Sanwo-Olu knows how to manage the talents existing in the civil service, he will have no problem. “There is another thing. Ambode was not friendly with most of the traditional rulers and chiefs. That was one of his undoing, because these traditional rulers are in control in their respective domains. If Sanwo-Olu knows how to play his card in that area, he will not have difficulties politically. He is well accepted at the moment; you will notice that whenever they are doing anything, he is usually invited, even though he is yet to take over the reins of power. “Sanwo-Olu should also avoid interfering in religion, as Ambode did when he and his wife maltreated the Chaplain of the Chapel of Christ the Light, Alausa, Ikeja, Venerable Femi Taiwo. The Chaplain was sacked by the Governing Council allegedly on the order of the state governor.” Lawal said Ambode preferred to execute capital projects and Federal Government projects that required a huge capital outlay. He said many things will unfold the outgoing governor leaves office. 