BAYELSA is one state in Nigeria that has become the cynosure of contemporary politics in the country. Though, it has one of the least populations, it is not less than some African countries like Botswana, Guinea Bisau and others, with very large water-mass. It is one of the most naturally endowed states contributing well over 40 percent to the Gross Domestic Product of Nigeria with the discovery of crude oil in commercial quantities far back 1956 in Oloibiri. Apart from its political sophistication, there is no denying the fact that Bayelsa is the epic Centre of the agitation for fair deal in the oil rich region of the Niger Delta. Therefore, anybody who underestimates the socio-political cum economic calculus of the state will be doing so at its own peril. To the consternation of all, former President Goodluck Jonathan from the state emerged as the first democratically elected Vice President and later President from the South-South Region. This is after years of agitation for the south-south geo-political zone to produce a president of the Federal republic of Nigeria. As a matter of fact, the Ijaw Ethnic Nationality has been at centre of the agitation for equity, justice and fairness over the sharing of the National cake. Engaging any Ijaw man for discourse anywhere and anytime, you will always notice the rhythm of his sense of worry about injustice in the country. Sometimes it flaunts it to whoever that cares to listen that ”Ijaw means Truth” and they stand for Truth, Justice and nothing more. That is the spirit which runs through the blood and veins of the Ijaw man which has become the standard life even in the distribution of political offices of who gets what in the political configuration under the banner of a strong, united and prosperous state. It is against this background, when the former ruling party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP was formed with the introduction of zoning as a formula and panacea for peace, equity and justice. Bayelsa state which is widely known as the traditional home of PDP heartily welcomed the idea with two hands, with the conviction that at least the South-South Geo-political Zone would have the opportunity to produce a president. Even in the current ruling All Progressive Congress ,APC, at national level cherishes the very principle of zoning as an essential element of promoting  national cohesion, justice and equity and it is so enshrined in constitution of the party. In the PDP era, the zoning arrangement paid off, particularly with the emergence of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan as the fifth democratically elected president of Nigeria from the minority ethnic bloc, which was a major step towards breaking the jinx of majority domination which Bayelsa is a beneficiary. In Bayelsa State, the zoning arrangement is not only the unwritten rule but has also become the political ethos pervading the land, lives and people of the area. The state has only Eight LGA’s consist of three major political Blocs known as Senatorial Districts; they are: Bayelsa East Senatorial District comprised of Brass, Nembe and Ogbia LGAs; Bayelsa Central Senatorial District has Yenagoa LGA, Southern Ijaw and Kolokuma/Opokuma LGAs while Bayelsa West Senatorial District has Sagbama and Ekeremor. As the political storm begin to gather momentum across the state towards the November 2nd, 2019 governorship election following the release of election time table, the issue of where the governor should come from has become a topical issue of concern to critical stakeholders in the politics of the state. Top on the argument is which senatorial district and which local government area should or ought to produce the next governor. A careful look at the existing statistics in the distribution of political offices shows as follows: Bayelsa central produced Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha as the first democratically elected governor of the state who happens to come from the Southern Ijaw LGA of the Central Senatorial District. D.S.P Alamieyeseigha’s Deputy Governor, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, came from the Ogbia LGA of Bayelsa East Senatorial District. The same Ogbia LGA of Bayelsa East Senatorial District later produced Dr. Goodluck Jonathan as governor with Mr. Peremobowei Ebebi as Speaker. Mr. Ebebi later became Dr. Goodluck Jonathan’s deputy and further became deputy to former governor Timipre Sylva, when Dr. Jonathan was elevated to the office of Vice-President and President of the country. The Bayelsa East Senatorial District, which comprises the LGAs of Ogbia, Nembe and Brass further produced Chief Timipre Sylva who hails from Brass as governor in 2007. His deputy, Mr. Peremobowei Ebebi came from Ekeremor LGA of Bayelsa West, while the Speaker of the State House of Assembly Mr. Werenipere Seibarugu, was given to Yenagoa LGA and Deputy Speaker went to Nembe LGA. Following the expiration of the tenure of Chief Timipre Sylva in 2012, the argument of where the governorship would be zoned was revived. The general consensus then was that Bayelsa West Senatorial District, comprising Sagbama and Ekeremor is the only zone that was yet to produce a governor. That it will be unfair to deny them their right to have a taste of the office of governor of the state and will be counter-productive to the core values of justice and fairness which the people of Ijaw have been known for over the years. It was on that basis that the lot fell on the current governor of the state, Mr. Henry Seriake Dickson, from Sagbama LGA of Bayelsa West Senatorial District, while his deputy, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah (RTD), was picked from Nembe LGA of Bayelsa East Senatorial District; followed by the Speaker, Mr. Friday Kombowei Benson from Southern Ijaw LGA of Bayelsa Central. These point to the fact that Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA is marginalised in all ramifications in the distribution of the office of governor of Bayelsa. It is the only LGA that is yet to even produce the position of Deputy Governor and that of Speaker of the State House of Assembly. The wide-spread opinion across the state is that Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA deserves a fair deal and should zone the office of the governor to the area. A Yenagoa based public affairs analyst, Comrade Ebitimi Yepadou, stated thus; ”we cannot afford to perpetrate this broad-day injustice against our kits and kin in Kolokuma/Opokuma. We, the Ijaws, have fought against marginalisation and injustice with the Federal Government. It will be too bad, wicked, cruel and hypocritical to blame others for injustice while same problem is being perpetrated by an Ijaw man against another Ijaw man. The office of governor should be zoned to Kolokuma/Opokuma whether APC or PDP.” The idea has become the general verdict of the people not minding the political divide. According to a member of the APC in the state, Mr. Alabo Emi, who hails from Brass LGA, ”anybody outside Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA seeking to contest for governor in Bayelsa State should search his conscience. It will create bad blood within our people who regard themselves as homogenous Ijaw state, to deny our brothers and sisters to aspire to occupy the highest office in the state. It will make mockery of the ideals the Ijaw man had stood for over the years.” It is a legitimate demand for the sake of equity, harmony, unity and above all for the greater prosperity of the people of the state. After all, historically, Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA with headquarters at Kaiama, home of the Ijaw hero, Isaac Adaka Boro, started the agitation for a fair deal in Niger Delta shortly after Nigeria’s independence. Boro and his lieutenants engaged the federal government in an arms confrontation of what is historically referred to as ”The Twelve-Day Revolution”. The struggle led to the creation of the old Rivers State where Bayelsa was further carved out in 1996. In 1999, Kaiama, which is regarded as the heart-beat of the Ijaw struggle, became the centre of activities of the Ijaw Youth Council involved in the liberation movement. Like the Arusha declaration, the IYC activities were taken to another level culminating in the historic ”Kaiama Declaration”, a declaration which provided a working document for the agitation and emancipation of the Ijaw Ethnic Nationality, which further led to the creation of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), to address the development concerns in the region. Moreover, the people of Bayelsa cannot talk about the story of the creation of the state without reference to the role of Chief Dan Etete, former Petroleum Minister in the late General Sani Abacha regime. He was the rallying point by the Ijaw people in ensuring that they have a homogenous Ijaw state. It is pertinent to also mention that the Odi massacre by the federal government was a direct consequence of the resolve of the agitators in confronting the marginalization of the Ijaw people by the central government. Obviously, with these indices, the people of Kolokuma/Opokuma have paid their dues in the struggle to give the Ijaw man a pride of place in the comity of ethnic nationalities in Nigeria and the rest of the world. They have made enormous sacrifices to liberate the Ijaw people from the shackles of political, cum economic hegemony. That is why their demand for the highest office in the state, for the position of governor, is a fair demand and well placed. The 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa state is yet another acid test on the sincerity and commitment of the Ijaw nation to the much talked about ideals of equity, fairness and indeed equal rights and justice among the Ijaw people. This has to be replicated as it concerns the turn and right of the people of Kolokuma/Opokuma to produce the next governor of the state. This is where the Ijaw Leaders of Thought, youth and women groups and critical stakeholders must urgently intervene to resolve the issue in favour of Kolokuma/Opokuma. This is the only way to pacify the spirit of Isaac Adaka Boro crying for justice in his quiet grave over the grotesque marginalisation of the Kolokuma/Opokuma people. This is in the greater interest of a united, strong and focused Ijaw nation, being the fourth largest ethnic group in Nigeria. No group or individual should allow their self-serving ambitions to truncate the bond of unity in Ijaw land. After all, politics without fair distribution of resources can only incur bitterness and unnecessary rancour. If the central government could introduce federal character to entrench some level of sense of belonging to the constituent states; much less of a people who describe themselves as homogenous state cannot afford to put in place mechanisms for fairness in a small state. The Ijaw nation will be exposed to ridicule if they fail to do the needful; ultimately, they have no justification to point accusing fingers at the centre as the failure to correct the injustice will mark the death knell in the shout for justice by the Ijaw ethnic nationality. Already, a chieftain of the APC, Engr. Preye Aganaba has set the ball rolling by indicating his intent to contest the office of governor and called on the leadership of party at the national level to micro-zone the standard bearer to Kolokuma/Opokuma LGA, which is well placed in the interest of justice. Finally, if the Ijaw people pretend over the injustice against the Kolokuma/Opokuma people, then, they have no moral gumption to clamour for any form of justice or complain of any form of marginalisation any longer.