The left-footer’s dribbling ability has drawn comparison with Barcelona’s Lionel Messi because of his lion-heart determination, strength, pace and bullet drives. A member of the 2017 Nigeria U17 team that failed to qualify for the World Youth Championship, he has shown tremendous improvement the last two years and could be a poster boy of the Nigeria U-20 team with his dazzling qualities. With Chukwueze ruling himself out of the team, coach Paul Aigbogun was intelligent enough to name the technically gifted forward in the 21 man list for the tournament in Poland. Success has shone in the Water FC youth team and could be the perfect player to continue the fine tradition of quality Nigerian front-men over the years. “I’m glad to make the team, it’s a great opportunity I have been looking forward to over the last few years and I blessed God for making it happen now,” said Makanjuola who has been rated as one of the biggest players to rise at the World Cup in Poland. “The only player I always look up to is Lionel Messi, I derived every playing pattern from Messi, he’s my god, I love him, I love the badge he wears to shine as a player and I dream of getting to his level in the future. “It will be a miracle from God Almighty to see another player like Messi today but God-willing I have something better to show and to prove what I have learnt from him in the past few years. “The coaching crew built my confidence in the team and I am ready to play with my team mates and give our best in every game we played.” He’s few weeks away to clock 18 but wise beyond his years. Makanjuola plays with the experience of a veteran, while his youthful speed and deceptive strength allow him to make big impacts in the team. He’s potentially has it all: power, technique and pace, has the capacity to be a match-winner; his raw power and explosiveness make him a handful for defenders whether playing out wide or up front. Having enjoyed the hype of Nigeria’s Lionel Messi, the young forward takes less time to show Coach Aigbogun and Nigeria’s U-20 team what he was capable of with impressive display at the Flying Eagles training camp in Germany and has feted as a future superstar from the moment. “I understand the word football through Messi’s magic, I don’t think it’s an understatement if I said I am possessed with him and that’s why I call him god and playing for Barcelona is like going to heaven which I always dream of. “We are ready for the journey of gold and by the grace of God and our self-determination, focus, discipline, prayers, diligent and fans support we will make it happen.” A product of the same youth academy that produced 2014 World Cup player Babatunde Michael could use the U-20 World Cup to land in one of the biggest clubs in Europe. Blessed with fine technical skills and a strong eye for goals, the flying Eagles starlet is already enjoying a proven hype, and he’s one of the players to watch out for at the tournament.