The military yesterday announced the ban on motorcycles use in the forests of six of the seven Northwest states and Niger in Northcentral The states are:  Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina, Kano, Kebbi and Kaduna. The army warned that those caught violating the ban would be considered as bandits and kidnappers. According to Army spokesman Col. Sagir Musa, the ban became imperative given the fact that bandits perpetrate nefarious activities with the use of motorcycles. Col Sagir, in a statement, said: “The Nigerian Army (NA) over time has observed the use of motorcycles by armed bandits, kidnappers, criminal elements and their collaborators as enablers to perpetrate their heinous crimes especially in the states within the Northwest geopolitical zone of the country. “This informed the decision and directive to ban the use of motorcycles within the hinterland particularly around the Forests where the armed bandits, criminals and kidnappers hibernate and all around where troops are conducting operations alongside other security agencies. “While this may cause some inconveniences to some law abiding citizens in the area, the need to use all means possible to stop the dastardly activities of these bandits across the Northwest part of Nigeria needs no emphasis. “The general public, particularly in the Northwest and some parts of Northcentral in Nigeria where Operation HARBIN KUNAMA is ongoing are enjoined to bear with the NA as concerted efforts are being made to combat the insecurity menace ongoing within the area. “In this wise, it is hereby reiterated that the use of motorcycles remains banned within the forest areas in Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Kebbi and Niger states. “Anyone caught using motorcycles within the named areas will be taken for an armed bandit, criminal and kidnapper with dire consequences. “The respective state governments are enjoined to please disseminate the ban on the use of motorcycles in the named areas and enforce the ban in conjunction with the security agencies.”