THE National Union of Banks Insurance and Financial Institutions Employees (NUBIFIE) has charged the incoming National Assembly to look into casualisation and other anti-labour practices in the banking sector. It said most new generation banks did not respect labour laws. Its President, Comrade Abakpa Anthony, said the banks rather than employ permanent staff, who are more experienced and better qualified, preferred casuals with  lower qualifications. He lamented that as casuals, the workers were denied their rights, such as unionising. He said: “Casualisation is satanic. It is a way of outsourcing people’s destiny, when they are still alive. A casual is like making one a refugee in one’s country. Mortgaging people future. “We have continued to engage the CEOs who do not know the implication on the Nigerian workers.” The NUBIFIE chief said the union  protested at the National Assembly twice, adding that they were disappointed with the way the issue was handled. He added: “We would have loved a situation where the union and the banks we reported to the National Assembly were given the same hearing on the same day. But that was not the situation, the day the CEOs were invited, we were not there and, to us, it was like shifting the goal post. If they really want to treat it, they should have called us together. “What the National Assembly did was to send the banks questions, based on our report, which they would not have answered truthfully. But, unfortunately, we were not there to tell them that their information were falsified and that is why we want the new  lawmakers to revisit it.” Abakpa maintained that workers have the right to belong to unions irrespective of their status and should not be denied by their employers. He however noted that the union had been able to make some progress at getting some rights for the casuals. “Unlike when the casuals irrespective of the years they may have worked would be made to go without anything, we hold principal banks responsible for workers who have spent five years to get exit package at the time of disengagement. They have to pay them and not returning them to the contractors. “Our question has been, would you say the drivers carrying your money, the marketers, the tellers are not core to your service? Sincerely, there is need for a reappraisal on the way Nigerians are being treated like slaves by employers in their country,” he stated. 