Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Monday night said Nigerians must rededicate themselves to the good of humanity. The governor spoke at the Tafsir/Iftar Session held at Lagos House, Alausa in Ikeja. The event was to mark the official commencement of the fasting month. “I call on all our people and in particular our Muslim brethren to avail ourselves of the training and serenity that Ramadan provides; to cleanse our hearts and enrich our souls. This is a time to rededicate ourselves to the good of humanity, the development and progress of our dear State, and our great country, Nigeria,” the Governor said. He urged Muslims to imbibe lessons of Ramadan. According to him, it was important for people to imbibe the teachings of the season, especially in relating with God and fellow human beings. “This holy month is one full of blessings for all faithful. It is a celebration of a tradition and a key pillar of lslam that has been practiced for 1,440 years. Every year, we are called to pause and reflect on our lives; how we are serving the Almighty, how we are serving our fellow human beings, our nation and our State,” he said. While thanking the Muslim Community in the State for the prayers and support extended to his administration in the last four years, Ambode said they deserved commendation for cooperating with government in bringing about the achievements recorded in various sectors and sections of the State. “In a few days from now, the tenure of this administration will come to an end. This occasion, therefore, provides for me a unique opportunity to express my heartfelt appreciation to the entire Muslim community in the State for your support, prayers and contributions as citizens to the successes we have achieved. We also thank the Almighty for His innumerable blessings on us as one strong united family. “We have built a good partnership, worked peacefully in an atmosphere devoid of religious conflict and together, we have achieved so much in these four years. Our administration, to the best of our ability, fulfilled our promises to the people as can be seen in different sectors of the State. “To the Chief Imam of Lagos, other Chief Imams, my ever-supportive clerics, brothers and sisters, I want to sincerely appreciate and thank you for all your prayers and support in the last four years. Only Allah can reward you for all your love and cooperation,” he said. Noting that the best days of the State are still ahead, Ambode admonished residents to continue to support government, just as he urged Muslim brethren to also cooperate with the in-coming administration of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take the State to greater heights.