The first time Nneka was raped, she got bruised in the hips by her only grandson. Nonso, 21, had visited her room the third night after she celebrated her 85th birthday; “He said he came to shut my windows and I seized the opportunity to thank him once again for the role he played in making my 85th anniversary a memorable one,” said Nneka. That fateful night, Nonso offered to apply shea butter on his grandma’s ankles and wrists like he usually did since she developed joint pains. “It was soothing the way he rubbed it in my joints but just as I was drifting off to sleep, his grip became fierce on my wrists. Suddenly, he climbed over me and covered my mouth with his left palm. With his right, he yanked off my wrapper and rubbed shea butter on my private part. I warned him that what he was about to do was an abomination but he ignored me and shoved his groin against me very roughly. I told him, ‘My child, my body is too old for you; my bones will break under you’ but he ignored me and warned me to cooperate and he would be gentle. But he was not gentle,” said the 85-year old. Thus when her entreaties with her grandson failed, she resigned to his power and lust. As she recounted her experience, Nneka’s eyes glistened with tears she would not shed. Fighting back tears, she reached for a fresh orange in a bowl on a stool by her bedside and sucked on it with conquering immersion, all the piteous miseries of her life seemingly summoned in her toothless mouth. Her face, hard and pear-shaped provided a soiled, pale background to her sunken eyes; her eyes, twitching open and close in rhythm with the groove where her mouth met with the fruit rind, seemed in search of something; comfort perhaps. Soon she lifted her mouth off the orange to emit a yawn, her mouth straining wide open like she meant to vomit in one breath, the agony interred in her buried narratives. With submissive sternness, she said: “That was only the first time. Nonso visited my room thrice afterwards. The fourth time he did it, Jecintha, his mother, and sister were awake in the living room. They were watching television. I was sore all over and I hurt in my private part but he didn’t care. He said he was only taking compensation for the stress he goes through living with me and caring for me…But I never requested that he come live with me. In fact, his mother came to dump him with me few days before he turned 15. She said she couldn’t handle his frequent tantrums and disrespect to his stepfather. Nonso’s father had died and when his mother remarried, he couldn’t get along with his stepfather. “So, tell me, how did I do wrong by accepting him? The fourth time he raped me, I told him to be gentle but he wasn’t. When my entreaties failed, I begged him to use the sheabutter. In his haste, he used the one that had been mixed with a very searing mentholated balm. This caused my private part to bruise and by the time he finished, I was smarting from within and outside my genitals. When he finished, he cleaned my vagina with a wet cloth. I am sure he intended to use my body fluid for money ritual. But he has failed. It won’t work,” said Nneka. The situation persisted until Chiamaka, Nneka’s second daughter and Nonso’s aunt came visiting. Chiamaka, who had been shuttling between Lagos and their family house in Enugu in preparation for her marriage discovered blood and pus stains on two of her mother’s wrappers and the genital area of her pants. Worriedly, she asked her mother if she had suffered any wound on her private part or if she was experiencing any bacterial infection in her genitals but the 85-year-old responded in the non-affirmative, stressing that the bloodstains were probably from bruises she sustained from washing her private part too vigorously with local sponge. “But mama stopped using local sponge a long while ago. After she told me, I visited her bathroom and discovered that she had only the foamy sponge I bought for her few months earlier,” said Chiamaka. At that point, she suspected that something foul was going on. She did not want to believe the suspicions coursing through her mind hence she invited their family doctor, a distant cousin who pleaded anonymity. Following tests conducted on the grandmother, the doctor invited one of her colleagues, a resident doctor in a teaching •Another scene from a protest in southeast Nigeria; women in the region have taken to the streets in recent times to protest sexual assault against elderly women and young ladies in their communities
•Another scene from a protest in southeast Nigeria; women in the region have taken to the streets in recent times to protest sexual assault against elderly women and young ladies in their communities hospital, to reexamine the 85-year-old. To their chagrin, the results showed that their frail 85-year-old mother had suffered severe vaginal scarring and bacterial infection in her genital area. Continue on Page 2