AHEAD of his inauguration on Wednesday, Lagos State Governor-elect Babajide Sanwo-Olu seems to have his job cut out for him. Former  Commissioner for Public Transportation Chief Lanre Razak yesterday  urged him to repair bad federal and state roads in the metropolis to ease movement. Also at the weekend, a group, Igbo Movement, hailed Sanwo-Olu’s decision to run an inclusive government and promised to work with him to bring the plan to fruition. In a statement issued in Epe, Razak advised Lagos State Waste Management Authority  (LAWMA) and Private Sector Participation (PSP) operators to redouble their efforts  in keeping the environment clean and averting epidemic outbreak. He said the deplorable   roads and heaps of refuse across town required urgent action. The statement reads: “I am sure that the incoming governor and his deputy will hit the ground running immediately they are sworn in. I hope they will consolidate on the giant developmental strides the state has recorded since 1999, as well as embark on people-oriented programmes. “Fortunately, both of them are products of the leadership school of All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart and former governor of the state, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who wants quality leadership. “I am convinced that they will not disappoint Lagosians in terms of performance and good governance because they understand the needs of the people and will deliver qualitative service in line with the manifesto of the APC, which is designed towards achieving better living standard for the people.” Razak said Deputy Governor-elect Obafemi Hamzat, who was Commissioner of Works and Infrastructure under ex-Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola, would bring his experience to bear on road repair. He advised the incoming government to address the heavy vehicular traffic experienced daily on most Lagos roads, adding that the Public Works Corporation should be made more proactive in fixing the bad roads. The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Razak added,  should be made to step up its game to end traffic nightmares “These, I believe, are some of the immediate challenges the incoming administration should tackle headlong in the interest of the masses who voted massively for our great party, the APC. The governor needs to win the hearts of the people, including the civil servants and the electorate, to his side to move Lagos forward. “But I want to appeal to the people to pay their rates and taxes regularly to enable the government generate enough revenue to implement its socio-economic programmes for the well-being of citizens’’, he said Razak praised Sanwo-Olu for his plan to end the Apapa gridlock within 60 days  of assuming office and advised him to complete projects that he would inherit. Speaking with reporters in Ikeja, the Igbo Movement leader, Mr. Chris Onyekachi,  said running an inclusive government would be of immense benefit to the state. The  movement, he said,  had confidence in Sanwo-Olu, adding that it campaigned for him at markets and ensured his emergence as governor. “We campaigned at Ketu Market, Mile 12 Market, Ladipo Spare Parts Market and other places to ensure his victory. Now that God has made him the father of Lagosians, he should carry everybody along. He should remember the Igbo who campaigned for him,” Onyekachi said. He said the incoming government should not act based on sentiment “I appeal to him to ensure that everybody is carried along. We, the Igbo, are business people. He should make our environment conducive, as we pay our taxes’’, Onyekachi said. He said the Igbo were law-abiding, urging the incoming government to work with their leaders if there was need to get across to them. Onyekachi implored the incoming governor to ensure religious harmony and tolerance so that the people could live in peace.