Religious leaders under the aegis Arewa Pastors Non-denominational Initiative for Peace on Saturday assured Christians that President Muhammadu Buhari will not Islamize Nigeria. The assurance is in reaction to comments made by former President Olusegun Obasanjo accusing Buhari of trying to Islamize the entire country. National Chairman of Arewa Pastors Non-denominational Initiative for Peace, Bishop Abu Richard while briefing newsmen on President Muhammadu Buhari’s pre swearing in prayer meeting held in Abuja said Buhari is not the cause of the killings in the country. Richard called on Nigerians both Christians and Muslims to continue to pray for a better government in the next four years of Buhari. The cleric who expressed sadness over the kidnappings and killings in the country, advised Buhari and security operatives to be proactive rather than reactive to avoid crisis. Richard, who is also the founder Warriors of Christ Cathedral in Port Harcourt, commended the gathering for their peaceful initiatives, humble disposition and commitment to national unity. He also advised the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to involve all Christians in the activities of CAN. His words: “The accusation of islamization by former President Olusegun Obasanjo is highly condemnable. As a child of God and by my exposure President Muhammadu Buhari cannot Islamize Nigeria with the Vice President who is a Christian. “President Buhari is not the cause of these killings. Most of these killings have been going on before he took over power. That is why we have fasted today and prayed that God should strengthen him. “We also call on the security agencies to put in more efforts to stop these killings and we pray for a good 9th National Assembly that will be able to work with the government of the day with good policies to develop this country. “We pray for Buhari to do much better as he will be sworn in for the second tenure. As from his statement and all that we have been hearing we believe that through God he will perform better. “Buhari is a retired general and what we owe him is to pray and fast that God will touch him and touch the security organizations to change more tactics and also see how they can device other means and be more proactive instead of been reactive. “You do not wait until people are killed before you now react. We are not happy with what is happening in the country. Attacking the President Muhammadu Buhari will only worsen the situation.” Bishop Musa Kastina, National Secretary of the group prayed that God should grant the President the ability to distinguish between righteous counsel and the deceitful counsels of the wicked. Kastina said that God would help the President surround himself with righteous men and women who would give him sound advice.