The 5th edition of the Prince Kazeem Eletu-Odibo Ramadan Cup football competition kicked off with four matches at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos on Sunday. The competition sponsored by Dr. Prince Kazeem Eletu-Odibo, Chairman/CEO Kazeem Royal Properties Ltd, saw Kakawa Boys played 1-1 with Osapa FC in the first match of the day, while Legend FC walloped Osapa United 2-0 in the second game. Osapa All Stars then thrashed Adams Elite 3-0, before Sieme FIFA 19 played barren draw with Dragon All Stars in the last match of the day. In a chat with NationSport, Coordinator of the Eko Youth Sports Association Lateef Ojora-Ogunfowora said that the competition was organized to promote grassroots football on Lagos Island and reminded the youths to use the competition to promote peace and love among youths on Lagos Island and its environs. “We thank God that we started this competition during the Ramadan fasting period and I am happy that all the 16 teams have shown readiness to this competition. We are using this medium to urge our participating teams to shun violence and any form of vices that can tarnish the image of the competition. Any player or team flaunt our rules would be sanctioned accordingly,” he said. Ojora said that they have selected all the participating teams based on their football pedigree on Lagaos Island and noted that the competition is an home and away format. Also speaking, Engineer Lekan Oludayo Aderinwale, who spoke on behalf of cup sponsor, said the competition will continue to fish out talents in the state. “Prince Kazeem Eletu-Odibo loves football so much and he is willing to help and empower people in sport. That is the reason this is an annual event for us to bring out some talents in the area of football to empower them. We are looking toward to bringing out some talents, to empower them, train them further. Some of them will get opportunity to continue their football career outside the country,” Aderinwale said. Actions continue on Thursday as Luther FC face Campbell FC, Richo Boys tackle Lanre FC, Clinque Sports confront Orita Fashola FC, while Star Boys will be up against Asore FC. Life Goes On FC are the champions of the 2018 edition of the competition.