Plateau state Governor Simon Lalong has promised to inject new ideas in his second term administration for the benefit of people of the state. Lalong stated this on Wednesday in his inaugural speech after taking oath of office and oath of allegiance during a colorful inauguration ceremony at Rwang Pam Stadium Jos. According to Lalong: “We shall strive to inject new ideas and philosophical paradigm into our governance efforts. “This paradigm will hopefully find expression in Religious Humanism. Governance is a two-way traffic, involving a social contract of duties and obligations between the government and the governed. “Good Governance presupposes loyalty, hard work, effective service delivery, and leaving behind a legacy worthy of emulation by subsequent generations.” He added: “Our Humanism will be based on the principles that people need freedom and self-determination that people should be respected and held in high esteem, rather than means of negative governmental action; that people are fundamentally social in nature and therefore value or cherish community life; and that people have a right to seek truth and oppose authoritarian rule. “These ideas of liberty, human rights, democracy, and public scrutiny of opinion and governmental actions are essential to the smooth functioning of society. “We must therefore learn to form communities that respect human life and tolerate differences to avert the embers of hate and fanaticism.” He urged residents of Plateau state to expect dividends of democracy from his administration, while reciprocating the gesture by living in peace with others. He declared February 7 every year as forgiveness day to encourage reconciliation among all the warring interests and parties in the state. According to him:  “This is a day we have set aside to reflect on our journey as a people and having in mind the various crises that have bedeviled our dear state. “This day will always be a day to chart a new path and rewrite our narratives and celebrate our taking the path of forgiveness in line with our different religious injunctions.”