The United Nations (UN) Nigerian Humanitarian Fund- Private Sector Initiative (NHF-PSI) led by Adewale Tinubu, Group Chief Executive of Oando PLC, is raising funds and awareness for the Northeast crisis. The body has raised $83 million in contributions and pledges, thanks to the generous support of donor countries; Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Belgium, Norway, Ireland, Switzerland, the Republic of Korea, Iceland, Canada, Spain, Luxembourg, the Arab Gulf Program for Development, Malta, Azerbaijan and Sri Lanka. The NHF provides an opportunity for donor countries to pool their contributions to deliver a stronger collective response based on the realization that the Government of Nigeria cannot fight this battle alone. To amplify humanitarian assistance, the UN NHF-PSI initiative was launched in November 2018 at the Oando Wings Event Space.  The NHF-PSI is a groundbreaking global initiative and a first for the UN, that will see the private sector join donor countries in pooling donations and resources together to create a more collaborative and effective response to the ongoing humanitarian crisis in North-east Nigeria.  The NHF-PSI is made up of fourteen leading private sector companies in different sectors of the economy. Setting the pace for the oil and gas industry, is indigenous leader, Oando PLC, whose GCE serves as the Secretary of the Steering Group of NHF-PSI as well as Seplat Petroleum. In the banking sector, Zenith Bank, Eco Bank, First Bank and Access Bank have keyed into the project with the Chairman of Zenith Bank, Jim Ovia, serving as Co-Chair of the Steering Group. In the FMCG sector you have the likes of Nestle and Unilever, other companies include the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG) whose past chairman Kyari Bukar is also a Co-Chair of the Steering Group, and Templars Law, who have all elected to ‘Invest in Humanity’ as NHF-PSI founder donors and act as advocates proactively raising awareness of the plight of Nigerians in the North-east. The NHF-PSI is founded on the premise that Nigeria’s private sector not only cares profoundly for its nation’s most vulnerable, but also possesses the vision, resources and natural problem-solving ability to reduce it on an unprecedented scale if harnessed into collective action. To assess the situation firsthand, on May 14, 2019, the GCE of Oando led a delegation that included Herbert Wigwe, Managing Director of Access Bank andKyari Bukar on a  tour of two IDP camps in Maiduguri, Borno. Also a part of the tour and representing the United Nations were Edward Kallon, United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria and Edem Wosornu, Director, Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). The objectives of the tour was also to raise awareness of the plight of the millions of people in the North-east, and more directly galvanize a new wave of donor support for the initiative from businesses and individuals across the country.  In addition to visiting the IDP camps the delegation also paid a courtesy visit to the Governor. Tinubu said: ”This initiative is about Nigerians helping each other. Today, I have witnessed some of the most vulnerable people; women and children in the most dire circumstances. Having seen the magnitude of their humanitarian needs it is obvious that it is not a task that the government or any one agency can take on alone.”