RISING recording company, Slize Entertainment Services and Resource Limited is set to unleash another great talent into the entertainment industry. This follows the signing of a N10m contract with Edo indigenous rapper, Aigbondion Samuel aka Razily, courtesy the Edo State government. The development is in line with Governor Godwin Obaseki’s effort at empowering raw talents with disabilities. The promise was fulfilled through the office of the Commissioner for Art, Culture, Tourism and Diaspora Affairs, Hon. Osaze Osemwegie-Ero. The contract signing and cheque presentation, which took place at the State Government House, Benin City, had Hon. Osemwegie-Ero, representing the Governor, Committee Chairman, Ambassador Collins Abuja, Slize Entertainment Manager, Ode Paul Usegbe, the beneficiary, Aigbondion Samuel aka Razily, Permanent Secretary, Efosa Osagie Izevbigie, Godsent Foundation crew and members of the media. Hon. Osemwegie-Ero, who presented the cheque, emphasised on the selfless service of the governor and urged Slize Entertainment, as an emerging entertainment management company, to make sure all promises are fulfilled as soon as possible. Razily, who saw the development as his much sought-after breakthrough, expressed joy at the contract and thanked the sponsors and the governor, who made it happen. He promised to dedicate himself to the contract, work hard and make Edo State, which has chosen to invest in him, proud and great again. On its part, Slize Entertainment pledged to put in its best to ensure that the Razily brand becomes recognised both locally and on the international stage. It also thanked the Edo State Government for believing in the brand. “Thank you Edo State Government, most especially, Governor Godwin Obaseki for believing in us via the Office of the Commissioner, Art, Culture, Tourism & Diaspora Affairs. We are fully ready to brand RAZILY to the highest level,” Slize Entertainment Manager told the Press. Committee chaired by Amb. Collins Abuja.