Cassava (Manihot esculenta) is a perennial root crop that is edible. It is a staple food in developing countries of the world, especially Africa. It is rich in carbohydrates, calcium, vitamins B and C, and essential minerals. Though, nutrient composition differs according to variety and age of the harvested crop, and soil conditions, climate, and other environmental factors during cultivation. Nigeria produces over 54 million metric tons annually, making it the world’s largest producer of cassava. Cassava is produced massively in all the southern and central states of Nigeria commercial quantity. Cassava starch is an important domestic and industrial raw material that is used in the manufacture of a number of products including food, adhesives, thickening agents, paper and pharmaceuticals. Cassava root contains about 25% starch by weight. Liquid cassava starch is a modified cold-water starch used to soften textile and other related fabric. Liquid cassava starch can either be in wet liquid pack or in aerosol pack.  Liquid starch is not only easy to produce; but the raw materials for its production are readily available. Rawmaterial/machinery requirement The major raw materials needed for the production of liquid cassava starch are readily available in all the southern states as well as the middle belt, which are as follows: Production process Freshly harvested cassava roots are selected, cleaned and washed either mechanically or manually. Pealing: At this stage, cleaned cassava roots are peeled and moved to the hammer miller for grinding. Wet-hammer miller: Cleaned peeled cassava roots are fed into the wet-hammer miller where it is being grinded into pulp. Sieving mesh: The milled cassava pulp at this stage is washed or sieved to remove cassava fiber which will result to the liquid starch at the bottom of the sieving drum or basin. Flash dryer: this is used for drying the sediment after decanting process is completed to achieve dried starch. Essential oil: This oil is added to give it the unique fragrance it requires. Preservative: The purpose of preservative is to preserve the shelf life after production. They are required in small quantity. Acetate Polyvinyl (PVA): This is an aliphatic rubbery synthetic polymer. It forms emulsion in water, which makes it useful as adhesives for porous materials, such as paper and cloths. Isopropanol (IPA): IPA is a volatile liquid that evaporates quickly, which provides the spraying ability and fast drying of liquid starch. Packaging and label: Proper neat packaging with beautiful label is part of the attractive mechanisms of marketing. Monetary involvement: As low as N750,00 to as much as N98million or more could be invested in this ever lucrative business depending on the capacity you wish to invest. Market potential: There is a very huge market for liquid starch that cannot be saturation the nearest future. The population of the country is an added advantage while the increasing awareness of wearing Nigerian fabrics has also added to the demand for starch.