The Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited Limited (MESL), which is the operator of Kainji and Jebba Hydro Power Plants, has planned to generate 1,300 Mega Watts (MW) in order to meet up with the demands of its eligible customers. The Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Barrister Joy Ogaji disclosed this while responding to a questionnaire that The Nation sent to her in Abuja. According to her, the firm has already commenced the implementation of the eligible customers’ regulation of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) with the direct supply of power to five eligible customers. Following the implementation of the policy, MESL has raised its generation from 542mw to 922mw, she said. She also dropped the hint that other GenCos are now signing up to the policy in order to cushion the liquidity challenges that they have been grappling with in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). Ogaji was asked how the GenCos are preparing for the implementation of the eligible customer regulations, and whether they have the financial capability to cope?   Responding, she said: “The Eligible customer is already being implemented by some GenCos, Case in point, Mainstream Energy Service Limited (MESL) who currently has about 5 Eligible Customers being serviced by them. Mainstream also increased its generation from 542 megawatts (Mw) to 922Mw and even plans to increase it to 1,300Mw. “Other GenCos are currently working on signing up Eligible Customers. It is a well-known fact that the successful implementation of the Eligible Customer will lubricate the liquidity squeeze faced by the GenCos in the Nigeria Electricity Market.” She called for the removal of politics from critical sectors like power for the country to progress. Ogaji said that too much interference and excessive regulation were the bane of the power sector. The Executive Secretary insisted that “We must learn to allow the market forces drive the market. The role of government is to put in place an enabling environment with a firm monitoring and benchmarking process to drive efficiency and implementation. “With privatisation, the role of government is reduced to policy making. Another problem is inadequate policy in place to back up regulations. Policy forms the bedrock upon which regulation and orders are based and their absence portends unsustainable plans and programmes.” She, however, urged the NESI to  focus on maximizing capacity utilization, so as to achieve lowered power generation costs and in the process address the existing excess capacities. Utilizing what is existing or getting the most out of what is available, according to her, which in other words mean consuming what is available and recovering unavailable capacities (about 13,000MW). Ogaji noted that the GenCos from take over till date have made considerable progress, enabling the market to evolve from a nascent market to a developing market led by policy reforms and increased private sector participation. 