The Aeronautical Information Management Association of Nigeria (AIMAN) has lamented the non-implementation of AIS automation more than 10 years after  its conception. In a statement, AIMAN President Mr Williams Ngerem  said the AIS automation is critical to aeronautical data globally He said it was disheartening that since its inception, the automation had not taken off. “Without prejudice to efforts by the Federal Government to realise this laudable dream, it is pertinent to note that Nigeria as the African giant cannot continue to lag behind when several African countries have embraced automation in aeronautical information dissemination,” he said. He enjoined NAMA management to liaise with relevant organisations to enable the AIM  take off soonest. “I also charge the Federal Government to accelerate the implementation of the AIM project so that Nigeria can take its rightful position in the comity of nations,” he said. Ngerem thanked the AIMAN executive council members for their hard work and determination  in the last one year. Speaking on the forthcoming World AIS Day, he said the theme is: ‘The benefits of automation to aeronautical information management’ and that the event will be chaired by the Managing Director/Chief Executive Aero Contractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi. AIMAN, an affiliate of the International Federation of Aeronautical Information Management Association (IFAIMA) with its members domiciled in Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and Nigerian College of Aviation technology (NCAT),   collects, processes and disseminates aeronautical information for the safety, regularity and efficiency of air navigation. AIS was created on May 15, 1953 as an array of services for pilots and other relevant ATM communities, such as air traffic control, Air traffic engineers, aerodrome operators, military, civil aviation authority, meteorology. The World AIS Day celebration is  observed by all contracting states in accordance with the declaration by the ICAO to facilitate better professional practices and enlightening the public on the importance of aeronautical information services as a safety critical profession in the n industry.