President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the country deserve a better working relationship between the Executive and the National Assembly. Buhari who was speaking on the backdrop of the frosty relationship that characterized the outgoing 8th National Assembly and the Executive arm of government hoped for a better relationship In the forthcoming 9th National Assembly. The president spoke Tuesday night at Iftar dinner (breaking of fast) he hosted for the leadership of the National Assembly led by Senate President Bukola Saraki at the State House. He posited that the country deserve the better than what it got under the current dispensation. “Relations between the Executive and the Legislature were not the best in the 8th National Assembly. I sincerely hope each one of us will do his utmost to ensure there is a better working relationship between these two arms of government in the 9th Assembly so that we can serve the people better,” said the President. Buhari argued that the the principal task of the National Assembly “is to cooperate with the Executive so that together we can fashion policies that will lift our people out of poverty and out of illiteracy. I appeal to the Distinguished Senators and Honourable Members to subordinate all personal interests and ambitions to the imperative of working for the common good of our people.” While also congratulating all the members-elect on their success in winning their constituency seats , Buhari said “this is a great burden and a great responsibility placed on you by your people. Our citizens are faced with challenges of poverty. “Your principal task is to cooperate with the Executive so that together we can fashion policies that will lift our people out of poverty and out of illiteracy. I appeal to the Distinguished Senators and Honourable Members to subordinate all personal interests and ambitions to the imperative of working for the common good of our people.” President Buhari assured the leaders that his doors remain open “to all of you who have genuine concerns or advice to improve the quality of governance and service delivery to our people.” The President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki assured the President that the National Assembly will remain focus on national interest at all times. Others in attendance are Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, and the Deputy Speaker, Yusuf Lasun, majority, Ahmed Lawan, minority leader and the majority and Minority Whips and their deputies among others.