Folashade Ojebiyi, Chief Executive Officer, Alpha Cider Corporate Company Limited, who runs a honey-making outfit, is a typical business-inclined woman. Like the shrewd businesswoman she is, she makes the most of every opportunity that comes her way. Her foray into beekeeping in 2008, she recalls was borne out of necessity. In this interview with Medinat Kanabe and Dorcas Egede she shares insights on the nitty-gritty involved in setting up a thriving beekeeping venture. Excerpts: Why did you decide to go into Bee keeping? When I noticed the demand for honey and the way people were asking for it, I decided to go into the business. I decided on bee farming due to my love for the honey bee. I call “Bee” the golden insect that has a sting of life. It has the sting of life in the sense that when a bee stings you and it is not too much, it is good for your body. It is only poisonous when it is too much. We also get other products from the Bee that people don’t know about. Did you go for any training before you started the business? I didn’t study anything related to agriculture, in fact I am a marketer but by passion I love agric. I love nature, I love seeing things grow; imagining how it happened, so getting in contact with bees was interesting to me. I got to know about Bee keeping through a friend. I wanted to know more about it and fortunately for me, when I got employed in the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, I got in contact with honey. I was their marketing officer, marketing their products and honey was one of them. So, seeing the demand for honey and the way people were asking for it, and to top it all, the week I resumed was the same week the person handling honey resigned so I had no option but to step in and assist the boy doing it, so my interest became more stimulated. The following week, training was organised to train people on beekeeping and fortunately I was there, I was so impressed and decided to go into the business. I started it as a hobby. At a point in time, I had to let go of the job and face the business squarely. There are lots of adulterated honey out there, are there regulatory bodies that does quality control to ensure that what you are pushing out to the public is good enough for consumption? Though most of the honey in the market may not be adulterated but because of the notion that people already have about honey; that honey should be a certain colour, it should be a particular viscosity, it should be a particular taste; even the original ones they now tell you that it is fake. How do you get commercial quantity for supply with the way the bees work? If one has a good colony of Bees, a colony is a hive- just like a family. If you have a good location to keep the hives, at one harvest you can get up to 20-25 liters and one hive can be harvested twice in a year. If you can get a very good location where they have good forage, good food to eat-flowers and nectars is sufficient for them you can have a good harvest. So, what I am doing now is that I train people. I go to different farms, train them, encourage them to put hives in their farms; even if it is my hives then I harvest my honey or buy it from them to increase my quantity. Mind you, you can’t get the same honey from the same location- colour, taste, viscosity that means one must be careful when merging honey from different places. Is there a legal requirement for starting a honey farm? For now, there is none. It is necessary to belong to the associations around. I belong to the Federation of Beekeepers of Nigeria and Modern Beekeepers Association of Nigeria. Coming together gives us the opportunity to share ideas and help each other to tackle challenges faced in our farms. How much does one need to start a bee farm? It depends on your pocket and your interest and how far you want to go but I advise people to start small, then you grow along with it. Beekeeping is a 50/50 chance business. 50 per cent chance of survival and 50 per cent chance of failure. A lot of people have gone into the business and left it saying that the business is not for them. When you start small, you grow along with it, even if there are challenges, you will be able to manage it, the loss will not be much but if you invest a huge amount of money into it, once there is a challenge, it will be as if the whole world is going down. When I started it was rosy, I would invest all I had in the business as the finance came in but when the challenge came, it was a jaw breaker but at the end of the day, I got myself together again and started all over. Day in day out challenge arises but the determination to continue and passion for the business strengthens me. So, it is better to start small, maybe with one, two or three hives. The most essential materials are the bee hive, the bee suite, and even the bee suite, you don’t need it immediately but as time goes on you will need to go for inspection, and harvesting so if you want to start, I think with N50, 000 you can start. One thing about beekeeping is that you don’t need to own a land before you start, but you can develop relationship with farmers and just put your hives in their farm. Putting your hives in their farm is of benefit to the farmers because bees help in pollination of plants and the products are better than when they are not pollinated. What challenges have you faced over the years? Like I said, when the challenges come they come in big forms. The first challenge is bush burning; you know during the dry season you just see fire coming from nowhere and consume everything and that’s the time when we harvest more. That’s between November- March so you just wake up on day, get to the farm and see everywhere clean, it is only the iron stand that will tell you that something was there before. The first farm we had was an acre and we had a good relationship with the farmers around. It was in a remote area where there was no civilization, so we had to be friends with the farmers that stay around so that they can put an eye on our farm. Another issue we face is the issue of climate change; the climate had changed drastically. Last year we had a lot of rain that harvest was delayed. So, we keep studying the climate to know what to do. How do you source for materials? Usually we tell people to meet with a beekeeper to tell them what they need. For the hives, not all carpenters know the necessary measurement. Another thing is the location. We always advise people to locate their hives in farms or bushes, although, bees don’t attack except they suspect that you want to rub them off their honey, it is better located in the bush. One can keep bees in their houses but it is dangerous because neighbours can bump into it or use perfume that will attract them and they will visit the neighbor so it is better for one to go to a bushy place as bees also don’t like noise. The hive should not be far away from where they can get water because they also drink water so a flowing river or stream should not be far from there. It should be a place where you have natural vegetation or fruit trees are around there. What is the gestation period required before you start to make profit? It depends on where you place your hives. Normally it should take about six months, but in some places it may take about three months. It depends on the time that the hives were placed. We have four seasons in the Bee calendar; we have the build-up season when they build their combs and then the flower season when the bees are very busy collecting nectar, collect the pollen, during this time they are very busy and are able to build their combs to store honey but they don’t build a lot of combs. During the dead season when everywhere is dry, you find the bees swarming, that is leaving one location to another in search for greener pasture. The honey flow season is the time of harvest when we begin to harvest honey and this season is from December to March, the build-up season is from August to September, the flower season is from September to late October, November so the honey flow season is from December to March. Though the climate is changing now, and things are being affected now so we must study the weather well before we do anything. Do you consider the business lucrative enough? Yes, it is very lucrative. Apart from honey, we also get other products. The beeswax you get after you extract the honey from the honey comb is very useful and in high demand. It is used in making of sculpture, polish, cosmetics and candle. Candles made from bee wax are very good because it helps in curing asthma. Propolis is also gotten from bees. It is a substance which the bees secret to close any opening in their hives. They also use it to cover foreign object in their hives because they don’t like dirt. That’s why you see particles separated from the honey when you buy. Propolis is also an antibiotic and it is used in herbal medicines. The bees also produce royal jelly which is what the queen bee eats which makes it very fertile. The only duty of the queen bee is to lay eggs and she can lay 2000 eggs in a day.  The royal jelly is used in treating fertility, longevity and some other things. This jelly is gotten from the queen cell before it becomes actual queen bees. What is your monthly turnover? In a month, I make between N250, 000 to N300, 000 every month. I will soon start selling honey in small quantities because my intention is to make honey available for as low as N50. I want a situation whereby if you give a child N50 instead of buying sweet he or she will buy honey. What is your plan for the next five years? It is to increase production, raise more bee keepers through trainings, establish more farms  collaborating with farmers to use their farms, and to get honey to the market  at the cheapest rate and accessible to all as well as maintaining quality.