Mrs. Agatha Okunsanya sent us a long mail complaining about missed business opportunities, contacts and information she had lost just because she could not charge the battery of her phone as the charging point could not be repaired or replaced even by the company that sold the phone. Her phone, Freetel, ICE2 Plus, model FTE 161G, a Japanese brand, marketed by TD mobile was launched in Nigeria in August 2017. Appealing to us passionately to intervene as she needed to retrieve her contacts and possibly get the phone repaired. However, we accompanied with the said phone to office of TD mobile at 26 Kodesho Street, Ikeja. After registering our complaints with the lady at the front office, she directed us to the company’s supposedly service office at No. 16 Otigba Street, Ikeja within Computer Village, where she counseled we should request to see Akin. We asked for Akin and explained why we were there. To our dismay, he informed us that there was nothing he could do as they had stopped servicing Freetel as they had no service parts for the Japanese phone. “For how long has this been going on and how soon are you getting delivery of the service parts?” We cautiously questioned. To our indignation again, He disclosed that the company stopped servicing Freetel phones and even Lenovo for close to a year, and concerning how soon the delivery will come, he said, “I cannot tell.” Mr. Akin told us he could not offer any advice, and that there is only 50% chances of getting it repaired within Computer village. Very disappointed as I was at the occasion at Protea Hotel Ikeja where the phone was launched in 2017. It could be recalled that at the event, I specifically asked the management team about the after sales services of the phone and the Managing Director, Gozy Ijogun assured those present of impeccable after sales service. Placing a call to the MD of TD Mobile the next day, and when she failed to pick, I sent her a text, explaining what happened, and also reminded her that I was the one that asked about after sales service during the launch, and her response, which I concluded by asking her on what step the aggrieved consumer should take. She responded by asking for the model of the phone which I promptly forwarded to her. After that there was no response. Three days later, I called her again; she picked and said she was in a meeting that I should text. Again I forwarded the first text message, and after waiting for response, I called her several times without any response till Press time. We also recall that Mrs. Gozy dispelling fears of lack of after sales, said during the launch, “As TD mobile has many service centers across Nigeria that it will naturally extend the same after sales services to users of Freetel mobile smart phones.” Two years down the line, it is a different story. There are so many Mrs. Agatha Okunsanya out there just as there are so many marketers who partner with foreign brands without making arrangements for after sales service. When the product is due for service, the customer is abandoned. It would be recalled that sometime ago, the online giant marketplace Konga.com partnered with Mi Fone, a Mauritanian mobile phone company with headquarters in Nairobi Kenya to introduce M1-Tribe A500 smartphone. Despite the promises of after sales support those who bought the phone are regretting because of lack of after sales support. One of the victims is the lady we published her story. When after several months of usage, the screen of her Mi-Tribe A500 went blank. She contacted Konga, and she was directed to Oremeji Street for servicing. Just like Agatha, she was informed of the lack of servicing parts. She has gone back there several times to no avail. Unfortunately, she has not been able to see the screen of the phone elsewhere.