Residents of Fadeyi in Somolu Local Government Area (LGA) of Lagos State have petitioned the Commissioner of Police (COP) in Lagos to be impartial following the arrest of four suspected cultists allegedly terrorising Fadeyi, Jibowu and environs. Yusuf Waziri, Mufutau Abogunde, Tega Micheal and Alabi Sulaimon were arrested by policemen attached to Isheri Olofin Division who were on patrol around 8pm on Wednesday. According to the police, two AK47, two Beretta and other ammunition were recovered from them. The suspects, alleged to be Eiye Cultists, were said to be part of a gang known as ‘Ereko boys’ which has been on police watch list. It was also gathered that the suspects were transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), who confirmed the arrests, said investigation was ongoing, adding that efforts were on to apprehend other members of the gang. But the residents, in a May 16 petition through their lawyer Greg I. Aghedo, made available to The Nation yesterday, appealed to the Police to be professional.
They alleged that the suspects had, on different occasions, been arrested and freed by the police. Aghedo said the letter was written on behalf of Ayodele Street and adjoining areas of Fadeyi, and two persons; Mrs. Suliyat Asekun and Kola Olusanya. “Our clients are complainants against the above mentioned persons who were arrested by your men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and are currently in your custody,” the letter read. He said the community had been terrorised “for so long” by “a gang of murderous cultists” and had suffered many unsolved crimes, including “the murder of the husband of Mrs Suliyat Asekun. The case is before the Anti-Homicide Section of the State Department of Criminal Investigations Yaba.” Fadeyi residents, the letter added, were “willing to assist the police in unravelling a lot of information…and most importantly, we seek justice.”
It urged the police to conduct a thorough investigation of the case to determine the suspects’ involvement in the crimes.