The Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has solicited the partnership of stakeholders in stemming the tide of human trafficking and illegal migration. Mr Makinde Ayinla, Commandant NSCDC, Edo Command, made the appeal on Saturday in Uromi, Esan North East Local Government area, at a one-day workshop organised by the Anti Human Trafficking unit of the command. The theme of the workshop was ” Sensitisation of Students on Human Trafficking and Illegal Migration in the Society. Ayinla said that success in the fight against human trafficking and illegal migration could only be achieved if all stakeholders worked in synergy to arrest the trend. Represented by Mr Edwin Ugwuja, Head, Agro Allied Unit, the commandant said the power and strength of a nation laid within its lively youth who would drive its security, education, manpower, and technological innovations. He expressed regret that many Nigerian youths were often at the receiving end of the ladder as they were constantly subjected to child labour, street hawking, rape, prostitution, illegal migration, ritual killings and trafficking. Ayinla also said that many victims of those acts eventually found it difficult to fit into the society as they became nuisance and burden to the society and government. Also, Faith Akhademe, Deputy Superintendent of Corps, Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the command, highlighted the consequences of human trafficking to include stigmatisation. Other consequences, she said, were negative effect on population growth, slavery, social effect, health risk, as well as legal consequences. She, therefore, called on parents to support government’s efforts in fighting the endemic scourge of human trafficking. Mr Nduka Nwanwenne, the Benin Zonal Commander of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), said that the training was timely. Nwanwenne, represented by Mr Johnson Ademuyiwa, NAPTIP Assistant Chief Intelligence Officer, said that the agency had been in synergy with various stakeholders at curtailing human trafficking. He also explained that there was nothing wrong in traveling out of the country, but called on the students not to be deceived by criminals who would subject them to slavery. The event climaxed with drama presentation, songs and short movie highlighting the dangers of human trafficking. (NAN)