To some persons in Benin City and environs, the heavy downpour that fell last Wednesday was normal but to the Benin traditional institution, it was a bad omen. They linked the rainfall to the fact that the Chief Priest of Okhuaihe shrine, Osarodion Usuanlele, the Ohen N’ Ukoni Neyedo, was forced to step into Benin. Panic ensued in the police headquarters when Palace Chiefs sent by the Oba of Bénin, Oba Ewuare II briefed the Police Commissioner, Danmallam Abubakar, consequences of their action and in the event the unwelcome guest died in Bénin. Three big dogs were slaughtered as sacrifice before Usuanlele was released. The reason for the Ohen N’ Ukoni Neyedo for not entering Bénin, where the Oba of Bénin resides is an age long tradition that that started during the reign of Oba Ewaure II in 1440. The Okhuaihe shrine is located at Evbiekoi in Uhunwode local government area and as part of coronation rites of a new Oba, the Chief Priest would have a symbolic wrestle with the Crown Prince. After the wrestle, both of them would go opposite ways never to see each other again once the Crown Prince becomes the Oba. If the Ohen N’ Ukoni is sick, a doctor is sent to treat him at home whenever the Oba wants to pass through his vicinity, he would leave the community. Trouble started last week when some operatives of the anti-cultism unit stormed the Evbuekoi community based on a petition by one John Elvis (a.k.a. Atekha) who was an ex-official of the banned Community Development Association (CDA). It was learnt that the community has been at loggerheads over who is the administrative head. A faction in the community, especially former members of the , have refused to recognise the Ohen N’ Ukoni as the spiritual and administrative head of the community. Secretary of Evbiekoi community, Chief Paul Ajayi, said the policemen shot sporadically and insisted on taking Chief Priest Usunalele to Bénin City despite pleas that the man does not enter Bénin or he would die in the process. He said: “On Monday, we saw two Sienna bus. They started shooting. Some policemen came out and said the Commissioner sent them to bring someone from the community. The Ohen N’ Ukoni told them more than 10 times that he does not go to Bénin. It was an abomination. Since the Ohen N’Ukoni came into existence in Evbuekoi, he has not gone to Bénin. He cannot see the Oba face to face. When we got to Bénin, we begin to see the signs of heavy rains and strong wind after one hour. We knew problems have started. “The Police went to the Palace and they said the thing need three hefty dogs as sacrifice before the Chief Priest will leave the police station. The boy who wrote the petition was arrested. The other people are still threatening. We want security to be beef up here because the disbanded CDA want to be active. “It is the Palace that will determine the process of cleansing. The Oba owns the Ohen N’ Ukoni. The Ohen N’ Ukoni cannot do anything. Once he is install as Ohen N’ Ukoni, he does not see the Oba again.” Palace sources said a list of items to buy has been given to the police hierarchy on to cleanse the land. The source listed the items to include 14 native cows, tortoise, sheep, goats, cocks as well as other items of sacrifice to appease ancestors of the kingdom. Sources at the police headquarters said the Commissioner has ordered policemen involved in the arrest of Ohen N’ Ukoni to be detained. Edo State Commissioner of Police Danmallam Abubakar said his men were overzealous to have disrespected the tradition and customs of the Benins for arresting Ohen N’ Ukoni. Abubakar said the matter has been resolved with Bénin Palace. “The matter has been resolved. Traditionally the man was not supposed to come to Bénin. I quarrelled with my men for the action. The best thing to do was to carry him to the nearest police station. My men were overzealous. It is a good thing to respect people’s tradition. It was indigenous people that were supposed to know the true things that carried out the operation even those that reported. “It was a deliberate act to cause confusion. They should respect people’s tradition.”