The last meeting of the current Federal Executive Council (FEC) has been slated for Monday. President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to dissolve his cabinet ahead of his inauguration for second term on May 29, the day his first term also ends. Already, the valedictory session of the cabinent has been scheduled for Wednesday, May 22. The foregoing were disclosed at the end of the Thursday extraordinary FEC meeting  presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in the absence of the President, who is in Saudi Arabia for the lesser hajj. Briefing State House correspondents at the end of the meeting which went into the night, the Minister of State for Aviation, Hadi Sirika, accompanied by his colleague Ministers of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed and  Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammed Bello, said that the council approved N1.8 billion for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the buildings of the Railway village in Agbo, Delta State. He also revealed that the sum of N743 million was approved for the procurement of security and safety deficiencies as well as incidence laboratory for Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). He said the total sum for the procurement included taxes with a completion period of 12 months. Sirika also said  that the contract for the procurement of pavement marking machines was also approved by the council at the cost of N391.8 million. “This is a visual aid for pilots for safe operations around our airports,” he said. Another approval granted by the council, according to the minister, is the sum of €1.1 million, for the purchase of a total radar coverage track on system reconditioning. He said: “This contract went to the manufacturer of the equipment for 1,187,960,000 Euros, equivalent to N414,543,760.23 excluding taxes and it is for seven months completion.” The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT),  who also briefed newsmen said that the council approved six contracts worth N2.6 billion for the FCT. “The FCT got approval for the award of contract for the construction and equipping of materials testing laboratory in Abuja and that contract is in the sum of N616, 278, 844.19 with a completion period of five months. “That laboratory already is under construction, so basically it is just to equip the laboratory and is going to test all the items that go into the construction of roads and buildings,” he said. Bello further said cabinet approved another contract for a temporary access road in the central area of the territory. “The second contract was for the provision of an access road to link very key anterior roads in the Central Business District, that is Ahmadu Bello Way and Sani Abacha Way, all in the FCT, in the sum of N670,347,909 with a completion period of six months. “The third memo was for the award of contract for the design of engineering and solid waste treatment plant and transfer stations in the FCT, and it is a consultancy project awarded in the sum of N473,798,934, to be completed in 12 months. “These transfer stations are meant to serve the waste management value chain so that before you get to the final dump site, solid waste is separated according to the various grades, and that makes it easier for recycling. “As you know, now we have what is called waste to wealth, and that will create a very important economic system for people who will invest in it,” he said. He said another contract awarded for the FCT was that of engineering design of expandable main sewage treatment plant at Kango and Associated Trunk lines at the cost of N511,528,689. The FCT also got approval for the final design of engineering infrastructure and production of tender documents at the cost of N202,410,378.45. He stated that another N143.7 million was approved for the final engineering design of infrastructure and production of another tender document for Sector Centres E and F in Phase 111 of FCC, Abuja.