Members of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) in Ondo State have hailed the decision of the federal government to grant financial autonomy to local governments in the country which will take effect from the first of next month. The State President of the Union, Bola Taiwo told reporters in Akure that the federal government’s directive for all local councils’ allocations to go straight to their respective bank accounts without passing through the Joint Allocation Account Committee (JAAC) or state governments was a welcome development. Taiwo who commended the administration of governor Akeredolu for not misappropriating the 18 local governments monthly allocations. He explained that the Central bank, EFCC, the newly set up National Financial Intelligence Unit, NFIU and other stakeholders would monitor the implementation of the local governments’ financial autonomy. According to him, special trainings would soon be organised for councils’ workers on how to enforce compliance and implement the autonomy. He however called for local government election in Ondo state and advocated law against the appointment of caretaker chairmen to pilot affairs of council areas as they were being used to siphon funds. Taiwo said the move was laudable because local government autonomy had been a priority of the union for long. “We are happy because this is a dream comes true. We have been yearning and agitating for this because autonomy to local government has been our priority, “he said.” The new guidelines serve as mechanisms that will safeguard, protect and allow for transparency in the local government joint account manage men,” He said. He applauded the state government for not diverting money meant for local councils in the state. The state NULGE President, therefore, enjoined the state government operating caretaker committees as administrators to desist, saying such step was not a true representation. He said setting up caretakers committee to man affairs of local council was another means of siphoning funds. 