The Channel for Widows Relief Initiative (CFWRI), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), has donated relief materials to 250 widows in Ibadan to provide solace and care for the widows. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that items donated include rice, beans, milk and garri to the 250 widows. A sewing machine was presented to one of the widows, Mrs Khadijat Ahmed, who learnt fashion designing and graduated from the training centre of CFWRI. Alhaja Fadilah Balogun, Founder of CFWRI, donated the materials on Wednesday during the 8th Ramadan Food Relief Programme of the organisation. Balogun said that life was always full of uncertainties and unpredictable circumstances and this happened when a woman lost her husband and became a widow. She said this was why CFWRI mobilised the widows and cared for them. “These women by the loss of their breadwinners are united by CFWRI through provision of skills acquisition, economic and financial empowerment, health care services and education support for their orphaned children to give them sense of belonging. “The population of widows is steadily increasing in Nigeria and little is known about them and the challenges they go through are making their situations worse,” Balogun said. She said that the organisation was spreading its coverage on national basis and about 20 widows had been registered in Ekiti State and benefiting from CFWRI programmes and same was expected in each state of Nigeria. Balogun said that CFWRI intended to reduce unemployment among the youth and had installed a monogram designing machine to further extend the empowerment training to youths for financial sustainability. The Guest Lecturer, Imam Ismail Busari, called on the family of the widows not to make life unbearable for them but take good care of them to reduce their suffering. Busari, who delivered a lecture on “Human Right is Widow’s Right” urged the widows to summon courage on the death of their husbands, saying death was inevitable. He said that Islam recognised the right of widows in order for them not to suffer after the demise of their husbands. In his contribution, the Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Isiaq Olajide, commended CFWRI for assisting the widows. Also contributing, the Chairperson, Board of Trustees of the organisation, Alhaja Muslimat Salau, said the widows were facing a lot of challenges and CFWRI was here to care for them. Salau said that a lot of widows had received succour through the NGO and urged the widows to make judicious use of the materials given to them.