Leaders of Organised labour in Ekiti State, on Saturday, denied rumour that the state government had indicted some labour leaders for financial infraction allegedly committed during the immediate Fayose-led administration. The Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Nigerian  Labour Congress(NLC), warned those they described as rebels within the labour family to desist from maligning past leaders of the unions to promote selfish agenda. The unions added that the past chairmen of the NLC, Comrades Ade Adesanmi and his counterpart in TUC, Odunayo Adesoye, were not indicted for alleged corruption, contrary to the position being peddled by mischief makers. The former labour chiefs had been reported of colluding with the Fayose administration to appropriate N6 million monthly running grants to themselves and another N6 million quarterly running grants for their meetings. They were also probed for alleged involvement in partisan politics contrary to the Public Service Rules, and using their positions to corner plots of land under suspicious circumstances during the immediate past government. It was said that the former union leaders were investigated by a Panel of Inquiry headed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Mr. Sunday Adebayo. At a press conference jointly addressed by the new Chairmen of NLC, Coms. Joshua Kolapo and TUC,  Sola Adigun, the duo, said it was saddening and unfortunate that a query issued to civil servants to explain some issues could be treated as an indictment. Kolapo said the fake rumour being spread by some aggrieved members of the unions and their surreptitious moves was to divide and weaken the labour movements. “We wondered how a query issued to civil servants could find its way to the public domain. It was supposed to have been a secret and internal arrangement. ” Our findings revealed that the unsigned release did not emanate from government. Again, accusation still remains in the realm of allegation until it is proved otherwise. “No one has been indicted yet until the report is out. I want those propagating lies to desist, especially those that had earned prominence through these platforms. “Our past leaders should be commended. They are trying to portray us as being divided, but they will fail in their devilish moves” The NLC boss commended governor Kayode Fayemi for reinstated civil servants either dismissed or suspended under the past government into the civil service. “As those dismissed or suspended between 2014 and 2017 were reabsorbed, we appeal that the 2,000 workers employed in  2018 should be retained. The governor should please show mercy. The victims being Ekiti indigenes, the governor has no option than to reconsider them”. The TUC boss,  Adigun,  added that the bodies will work hard to fortify labour centres in the state for workers and society at large not to suffer a serious backlash that would accompany a divided labour. ” Our views that labour leaders should not be victimised was not an indication that we are supporting corruption. “We frowned and condemned the leaked query,  since it didn’t emanate from government. The  Labour family in Ekiti is one and united despite this”, he stated.