Wife of the Lagos State governor and Chairman of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO), Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, has handed over to the wife of the governor-elect, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwoolu. She urged her to take COWLSO to a greater height. At a brief ceremony at the Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja, at the weekend, Mrs. Ambode hailed the vision of the founding mothers of the committee, which is to complement the efforts of the government in critical areas that are women and children-friendly. She said the committee, under successive chairmen, had continued to walk in that great vision, leading to remarkable improvement in the lives of women, girls and children, in vital areas of health, empowerment, education and others. Mrs Ambode recalled some of the achievements made under her chairmanship in the last four years: “My lovely women, with all sense of modesty, we happily recall some of our collective achievements in the health sector, by way of interventions in maternal and child health, year after year. ‘The phases of intervention led to the sponsorship of goiter surgery for 30 women, free hearing aids for 15 children, three  women and two men; as well as the upgrading of the ENT Department of the General Hospital, Odan, Lagos. We also purchased and installed state-of-the-art audiology equipment, including Otoread OAE capable of detecting hearing defects in newborns.” She went on: “Other phases of intervention saw the procurement and donation of two Transport Incubator Ambulance to the Gbagada General Hospital and Island Maternity Hospital, coupled with the donation of 32 neo-natal incubators to 13 General Hospitals and six fully fitted Birthing Suites for Amuw-Odofin Maternal and Child Centre, Epe General Hospital and Island Maternity Hospital, Lagos, among others.” She thanked members of the committee for their support for her and the Ambode administration over the past four years and appreciated her predecessors for their advice and words of wisdom. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu praised her predecessor for taking COWLSO to an enviable height, promising that she would not deviate from the founding ideals of the committee. She said: “I thank my big sister, Her Excellency, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, for the great steps she has taken to move the committee to its current level. I thank her for the words of encouragement that I should not be scared about the challenges of that office. I will do my best, God helping me, to move COWLSO to the next level.’ Mrs. Sanwoolu, who also commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his attention to the committee, noted that governance was a continuum. She said the incoming government would work hard to move the state to the next level. A major highlight of the event was the presentation of charity grants to 29 orphanage homes and those for the less privileged.