The Nigerian Army said Wednesday that the collaboration and synergy developed by security agencies to stamp out criminal acts in Sokoto state and its environs have started yielding results. According to a statement signed by Lt. Abayomi Oni- Orisan, Assistant Director Army public relations, a number of criminals including suspected drug dealers have been arrested by security agents in the axis. The statement reads: “Synergy between 8 Division Nigerian Army and sister security agencies in Sokoto state is yielding positive results in the fight against armed banditry and other forms of insecurities especially in Sokoto State. “Consequently, between the 19 to 21 of May 2019, 22 criminals were arrested for various offences ranging from armed robbery, banditry, possession and trafficking in hard drugs, and illegal possession of firearms amongst others. “On the 21st may 2019, a joint patrol team comprising of troops of 8 Division and other security agencies based on credible information conducted a Cordon and Search operation in Didan Dere Bypass area and apprehended a suspected drug peddler who in turn, led the troops to the hideout of a notorious drug kingpin at Kofa Kware. “A search conducted in the premises, the following items were discovered: “Similarly, based on intelligence report another cordon and search operation was conducted Wednesday at Nakasari Barebare area that led to the arrest of suspected drug baron. Items recovered from his compound included: “Earlier on 19th May 2019, a joint patrol team on patrol in Sokoto metropolis, busted a notorious armed robbery gang led by one Zayyanu aka ‘Dankane’ which hitherto terrorised residents of Sokoto township and environs. “Similarly on 20th May, 2019, another joint patrol team, while on routine Patrol in Sokoto town arrested 6 suspected robbers with assorted weapons and other illegal substances. The following were recovered from them: “Again, a patrol team along Gusau – Sokoto road intercepted highly suspicious illegal aliens in a Toyota Avensis car conveying 8 Cameroonian nationals on their way to Niger Republic via Ilela border. The individuals were without any valid identification and could not explain their mission in the area. “The General Officer Commanding uses this medium to encourage citizens to promptly report suspicious movements and activities in their localities. “The GOC equally wishes to reaffirm the determination and resolve of the Division to ridding the state of all forms of criminality.”