No fewer than 800 residents of Etsako East, Etsako West and c local government areas have benefited from an empowerment programme organised by the lawmaker representing the areas at the House of Representatives, Hon. Johnson Oghuma. The event held on Saturday. The beneficiaries were trained in fishery, tailoring, welding, solar power repairs and installation, cosmetology, CCTV installation and repairs as well as aluminium fabrication. Petty traders also received N10, 000 each to boost their businesses. Items given out to the constituents were mobile fish ponds, sewing machines, motorcycles and welding machines, among others. Oghuma was elected to the House of Representatives in 2017 after Hon. Philip Shaibu was elected Deputy Governor of Edo State. He won re-election to the National Assembly in last year’s general election. Oghuma said he resisted pressure to provide the empowerment packages before the general elections because he didn’t want the electorate to misconstrue the gesture as inducement for the people’s votes. He told reporters that he planned the empowerment package to be different from what the people were used to by training the beneficiaries in various aspects of available skills before providing them with the appropriate tools. Hon. Oghuma, who promised to support them with cash grants to kick-start their trades said he has attracted many capital projects to the three local government areas. His words: “My purpose in life as well as in politics, is to provide opportunities for my people; giving hope to the hopeless. My people just re-elected me and I will do more for them. As you can see, I made sure they were trained so that they would value what was given to them. “Those that have been trained on fishery will get the empowerment items as well as 500 fingerlings and a token to start up their businesses. The same will go for others that we have trained. “Similarly, about 200 market women will get N10, 000 each to boost their businesses, while 160 farmers will get sprayers and other items to improve their yields.” Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Estako West Local Government Area, Alhaji Abubakar Akokhia, hailed the lawmaker for achieving so much within two years in office, even as he cautioned the beneficiaries against selling the tools given to them. He said: “We believe Oghuma will do more in his second term. Those that did not get anything now will get something in the next empowerment phase.” Some of the beneficiaries said it was the first time they would benefit from such programme in their constituency.