Picked last season as the best midfielder in the Swedish Division 2 Ostra Gotaland, Stephen Madueke , a member of the Golden Eaglets’ squad that won the historic fifth FIFA U-17 World Cup for Nigeria four years ago in Chile shares his humble beginning in an interesting conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Former youth international Chinedu Stephen Madueke has spoken about how being the only child of the family actually influenced his love for the beautiful game of football. A member of the Golden Eaglets’ squad that won the historic fifth FIFA U-17 World Cup for Nigeria four years ago in Chile, the 20-year-old is currently with Asarums IF in the Swedish Division 2 Ostra Gotaland. Madueke in only his first year with Asarums IF , was last season crowned as best midfielder in the second division and he reckons the milestone can only propel him to greater things. “I really felt good to be crowned as the best midfielder in the second division,” the midfielder who cut his teeth at Virgin Kids FC in Abuja told The Nation.“Of course, the award has nothing to do with only me but the blessing from God; the unqualified support of my teammates as well as the confidence I got from my coaches. “That is just by the way and it means I have to continue to work very hard because I still have so much to offer. I really thank God for making this possible for me because it has not been easy to reach this level and I’m really enjoying my game again.” Madueke arrived in Europe at AD Camacha in the Segunda Divisao Portuguesa (Portuguese Second Division) but it turned out to be a taxing start since he did not get the chance to strut the stuff that made him such a lively winger in the coach Emmanuel Amuneke-led U-17 winning team of 2015. “I was not supposed to join AD Camacha initially because I actually went to Kalmar Fotbollsforening (more commonly known as Kalmar FF) but I had no option than  to go to AD Camacha when I was not offered a contract in Sweden,” he explained. “I really had a tough time at AD Camacha but I had a big break when I moved to Feirense U19. “I had so much hope after playing a fantastic season  with the U-19 and the club was really keen to give me  formal contact  but my agent then did not help  my situation because he was demanding  for outrageous amount of money. “I really had feelings that something big was to come up because I did so well with Feirense U19 but unfortunately, things didn’t work out as I wished. “They actually wanted me to sign a full contract  but my agent  then was greedy, asking for  more money because as he said, there were better offers coming from Braga and FC Porto. Unfortunately, he couldn’t come up with any fresh deal until Feirense backed out. “ I was  virtually stranded in Portugal until Mr. Kingston came around. It was through Mr. Kingston that I got the opportunity of coming to Sweden. “But the season was almost going to an end when I was brought back for trials at Kalmar FF and I was not too fit; I was then asked to go. “But everything has been so good since I joined Asarums IF and I’m so happy with my performance last season. “I know that there are few more things for me to do and my target is to have a better season in 2019. I want to be consistent on the field and humble because  is an important quality I need in order to go a step further in my career.” Madueke truly caught  the eyes last season at Asarums IF where he  featured in 24 out of the club’s 26 matches in the Division 2 Ostra Gotaland. “I only  missed two matches last season,” he volunteered.“I missed one game because I came late  and the other, I missed because I had two yellow cards prior to  a match. I played 90 minutes  in all the 24  matches that I played. “I really worked very hard to really improve myself because I had at the back of my mind all the rough time I had in Portugal. “I’ve grown up mentally since I came to Sweden and there is the motivation to really work hard for myself, my family and everybody around me. “I just have to build upon my success of last season and to improve myself; I have this in my mind all the time. I had it rough in Portugal and this is a great opportunity for me to make up for the lost time. “ Indeed, the lad is truly at home with Asarums IF in the Karlshamn Municipality in southern Sweden: “We are two Nigerians here at Asarums IF and the environment at the club has been super nice because we have amazing people here. “There are so many things that I like at this club  right from the love of the  fans to the officials, it’s been a good moment for me. “They have this special love  especially when you are doing well and I’m really enjoying myself here. It’s been all love and amazing for me and I have to  keep going to justify the love they’ve shown me here. “Settling down here has been easy and sweet because the club officials and management has been helpful in different ways; because they are so loving and this has really helped to improve my game. “ I also  have two other Nigerians with me here;  Christian Akannoh and Odunayo Ayonuga  who both played for Abuja Academy; so I’m in  good company with them.” Yet Madueke has not forgotten how it all started when he found himself in  company of a new generation of youngsters  in the Golden Eaglets under strict watch of coach Amuneke, the current national team manager of Taifa Stars of Tanzania. “ Coach Amuneke is a hard worker and I’m happy I passed through his hands in the Golden Eaglets,” confessed Madueke who  had a tough beginning until he blossomed with the team in Chile. “I would always be grateful for the coaches that have stood for me all these years especially the coaches at the national team level when  I was in the Golden Eaglets. “It was difficult for me initially because I was unable to cope with the tough  trainings sessions but those trainings under coach Emmanuel Amuneke in the U-17 and U-20 has really helped me in my career. “I want to use this opportunity to thank coach Amuneke; coach Kabiru Baleria; Coach Emeka Amadi  as well as the other backroom staff of the 2015  Golden Eaglets  for all their support over the years.” Now looking further  to opportunity to play in the next stage of the national team, Madueke recalled the ill-fated Flying Eagles squad that narrowly missed qualification for the 2017  U-20 African Cup of Nations. “I was part of the qualifying series for the 2017 U-20 African Cup of Nations I impressed and warranted interests despite the fact that we failed to qualify for the AFCON which was held in Zambia,” he said. “ I had all kinds of  proposals from agents and you know everybody would come with sweet words. “ I later found myself at AD Camacha but I didn’t enjoy my time there and at some point, I even stopped playing altogether for about four months.” But Madueke admitted  the  future is  now looking bright for him  at Asarums IF:“I have  to pray against any serious injury  and I know with hard work, every other things would follow. I have to be prayerful and keep working hard. I have to be humbled and be patient  and see how things goes. “ I don’t really think about distant future rather I want to  do everything in order to get to the top level. It’s one game per  day for and  I just want to continue to do my best and to continue to get better than how I was  yesterday. “Once I can  get better at Asarums IF, I know I would  reach my goals  and I just have to be patient because the future is going to be better  for me.” Meanwhile, Madueke has enthused  about his humble beginning  while praising his parents for supporting his choice of career. “ My parents serve as a great motivator for me because I’m from  a very small family with me as the only child,” he revealed.“ Football was  the only thing I loved right from my childhood days and I have to thank my parents for allowing me to follow my  passion for the game. “It was my mum that bought my first pair of boots and she  has been there for me all this while. It is my prayers to make things better for me because they have been there for me all this while. “The special thing I enjoy being the only child is the fact that I don’t share my parents’ love with anybody. But it can be lonely at times because there were  no other kids to play and laugh with; but I have friends to share things with and I had football. “Being the only child is special. Though I feel lonely at times, football has always been   like a safe haven for me,” he stressed.