THE National Film and Video Censors Board in furtherance of its bid and unrelenting resolve to rid the market of unwholesome and unclassified movies, which in effect have dangerous impacts on the society, especially on children and youths took its media literacy campaign and youth empowerment programme to the North East zone of the country. Proceeding with a workshop on “The Essence of Classification and Capacity Building on Film Editing, Content Development and Youth Empowerment”, the first phase of the empowerment in the zone was carried out at the New Lecture Theatre (NLT), Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) Bauchi on May 14, 2019, while the second phase, both facilitated by Mallam Yau Darazo, Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties to the President, was held at Darazo Town Hall, Bauchi State on May 15, 2019 respectively. The youths who were upbeat about the opportunity were trained, inaugurated and empowered with funds, phones and other items as young Ambassadors for NFVCB by its Executive Director, Adedayo Thomas. Thomas admonished them to ensure they orientate their compatriots and report cases of infringement of the NFVCB Act to the Board. This admonition was necessary as “movies have huge potentials to alter the course of the society, damage societal values and promote violence and crime if not appropriately regulated with the right support and collaborations.” The Board also rounded off its “Capacity Building for Staff on Film and Video Works in the New Horizon” in the North Central Zone on May 16, 2019 at the City Lodge Hotel, Jos. The event marked the end of the training which had run over two weeks across all the zones of the nation. Other guests at the two events include Mr Karu Ishaya and Alh. Sabo Babagana, both Board members of NFVCB; Prof. Abraham Ajene Idoko; Mr Toyin Adesina, a renowned PR consultant; Hajia Rabi Muhammad Sangari, Zonal Coordinator North-East zone of NFVCB; Comrd. Mustapha Umar Waziri, President of Darazo Students Association (DASA) and Arch. Usman Yau Darazo, Programme Coordinator.