Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is a fairly common illness especially in women who are under 50 and who are within the reproductive age group. This is not to say that PID does not occur in over 50 years; it does but not as frequent. The reason for this disparity is seen in how PID develops as explained below. As the name implies, pelvic inflammatory disease is inflammation of the female pelvic area. The pelvic area is the space in both male and female that houses the reproductive organs of the respective genders. Why is the female vulnerable to PID? By the very nature of the way and manner that the female reproductive organs are made and arranged within the pelvis makes the female more vulnerable to infections. Also, the way the female is made to perform her reproductive functions by being the recipient party in the reproductive process makes the deposit of sperms, germs and foreign body possible in the female pelvic cavity compared to the male gender. There are impacts of PID on fertility: PID may cause difficulty with sex. It may also cause blockade of the fallopian tubes, thus disallowing the sperms to meet the female egg leading to childlessness. What causes PID? In general, PID is caused by infections. Most commonly, by infections that are sexually transmitted (STD), but not exclusively. Among the common causes are bacteria like chlamydia and gonorrhea-causing bacteria. Other bacteria that are really not classed as sexually transmitted are Escherichia coli (E.coli), staphylococcus and Klebsiella. Thus, PID may be caused just by any bacteria such as tuberculosis bacteria and one causing syphilis that finds itself to the reproductive tract of the female. Also, less commonly, viruses may also cause PID. Rarely, PID may be due to chemicals agents such as chemicals of whatever origin inserted by the individual female or during surgical procedure by the doctors. Conditions that make the female vulnerable to PID or how she could get PID:  A woman is at risk of getting PID if she has multiple sexual partners or even a single partner with infection. In such cases, risk of transfer of infection from one partner to the other is high. Childbirth, getting, contraceptive device called IUCD, during surgery such as endometrial sampling of the womb lining, during abortion or miscarriage predispose women to PID.  Having sex before the age of 20 raises the risk of PID for the woman. The infection from the vaginal migrates towards the cervix and tubes to other parts of the pelvis to spread the infection. What are the symptoms of PID?  You may not even have a symptom at all and you may never know you have PID until very late when complications have set in. Fever may occur in acute case of PID depending on the cause. Yet, in symptomatic persons, fever, pain in the abdomen, swelling of the lower abdomen, and vomiting are what sufferers could experience along with vaginal discharge that may be offensive. When the doctor sees the patient, the sign could be one of severe tenderness in the abdomen along with swelling and vaginal discharge. In chronic PID, pain may endure and swelling and vaginal discharge. However, complications may have set in with collection of pus in pockets within the pelvis (pelvic abscess). Vaginal discharge may continue. Complications: The entire or parts of the reproductive tract may be damaged beyond repair especially the tubes may become blocked and cause infertility. Other organs may become matted and inseparable thus causing continuing pain, swelling and discomfort. In both acute and chronic PID, sexual activity may become painful and difficult leading more to fertility and relationship problems. Even if pregnancy occurs, a woman suffering from PID risks having ectopic pregnancy (a pregnancy in which the fetus develops outside the uterus, typically in a fallopian tube). PID may also cause oophoritis or inflammation of the ovary as well as salpingo-oophoritis. Treatment:  Any pain located in the pelvis in a woman should be taken seriously and a visit to the doctor to determine if it’s PID or other causes of pain is important. Almost certainly, some tests and physical examination of the victim will be carried out and appropriate treatment including antibiotics and pain killer given. The sexual partner(s) will also need to be treated to avoid re-transfer of infection. Prevention:  Stick with one sexual partner who has no infection. Use condom if having additional sexual intercourse with a different sexual partner. The absolute prevention is abstinence from sex. Get your partner tested for STD before you start to have sex. You may also get screened annually for STDs. Go to your doctor as soon as you have any of the symptoms that are discussed here. If you need support on what I have discussed here, you may call 08188343865 for assistance.