Over the years, female shoppers have continued to experience one form of harassment or the other at market places from male traders, with some of them trying to molest, touch them inappropriately, make vulgar comments and hurl insults at them. It has been a common practice at most local markets. Alhough these harrassments are not limited to females alone, but they are said to be the worst hit. To many female shoppers, the market has suddenly been made a terrifying place to be, as their experiences have left them traumatised both psychologically and emotionally. Narrating her ordeal at Oshodi market, a student of Lagos State University, Blessing Okon,  said: “I went to Yaba to get some clothes and suddenly one trader just grabbed my breast. I shouted at him, but he started making derogatory comments at me. I felt so bad that day.” Another victim, Onyinyechi Achor, said:“I was walking along Yaba market, just around that busy roundabout, two guys came to where I was, displaying their wears before me.  I walked faster just to get off from them, but they kept following me with their hands touching several parts of my body. I shouted at them, but it was fruitless. As I made a move to run away from them, an incoming vehicle almost knocked me down, but thank God the driver was able to hold the car to a stop.” Miss Achor’s experience paled when compared to that of Maureen Oha, who visited Balogun market a few months ago and had an unpleasant ecounter with some male traders. “I was confronted by men, who wanted to force me to buy the wares they were hawking around. One of them held me so tightly, as I tried harder to free myself from his grip. I fell off the small stair case leading to the entrance of the shop behind me. Rather than give me a helping hand, they uttered vulgar comments at me as they started laughing. “I struggled to stand up, feeling severe pains on my back. I was unable to buy what I came for and went back home devastated,” said  Oha, a Lagos State University student. These despicable acts by male traders have not gone uncomdemned by notable Nigerians and non governmental organisations (NGOs). One of such organisations is Market March, a group led by an Art Designer,  Damilola Marcus, which not long ago, took to  the streets of Yaba market to protest against sexual harassment, groping and bullying of female shoppers. Dressed in yellow shirts, they carried placards with inscriptions such as “stop touching us” and “no be by force to buy”, among others, to condemn female shoppers’ harrassment by male traders. The protest, however, spurred anger from the male traders, who rained insults and threw water sachets at them, saying:“We must touch”. But Marcus, who initiated the protest, explained that it was time the society put an end to these unacceptable practices at market places. “It is an initiative to bring an end to sexual harassment and bullying in market places.  It is a great evil, which we have to stop and this must change. We want men to desist from this act and make women feel safe in market places,” she said. Ms Marcus said she planned on carrying out the protest in other markets across the state, hoping that with such public awareness on the issue, stringent policies would be put in place to protect women from sexual harassment and bullying in market places. Motivated by the success the protest achieved ,it was replicated at Ogbete Market in Enugu recently,where protesters also enlightened the traders on laws against sexual harassment. A recent visit to Yaba market to observe if the campaign had made some impacts, The Nation noticed that the protest has curbed, to some extent, the notorious practice of female harassments, which the market is reputed for. Navigating varios sections of the market, it was noticed that some male traders tried to keep a reasonable distance from female shoppers while tying to persuade them to patronise their wares.  Although, there was a tolerable level of compliance,  some market men  men agreed that it may be difficult to eradicate the menace among them. They added that while some level of reduction in the menace can be achieved, it can be further brought to its bearest minimum if offenders are arrested and prosecuted. But there are still among them, who believe that touching and harrassing females are the best marketing strategies to employ.  One of them is Mr Martins. Although, he claimed to have turned a new leaf, harrassing women, he said, remained the best way to seek their attention to patronise one’s wares. He, however, said since turning a new leaf, he has realised that women like their freedom in making their choice anytime they go shopping. “I used to drag girls and tried to intimidate them because it was a normal thing in this market before now and most of us use force to sell our wares.  But since that protest was held, I have stopped and realised that shoppers will want to patronise me if l don’t exhibit those vile tendencies,” he said. 