•Nigeria’s academic libraries must be properly repositioned If Nigeria’s universities are to effectively improve the quality of the nation’s human resources, it is vital that their libraries are current, ICT-compliant and properly equipped. Given the many problems the country’s universities are currently going through, it is perhaps no surprise that the libraries established within them are characterised by an excess of obsolete books and journals, inadequate space and facilities, and poor access to online information databases. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has added its influential voice to this debate. Its national chairman, Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, has deplored the state of the country’s university libraries, claiming that their poor condition had contributed to the lack of an enabling environment for lecturers and had negatively affected the universities’ global rankings. An academic library is the heart of any university. It is where a significant amount of study and research is conducted; it is the intellectual sanctuary of serious scholars; it helps to establish the university’s reputation as a viable place of cutting-edge research. It is thus no surprise that the world’s great universities are almost as well known for their libraries as their departments and laboratories. Oxford has its Bodleian Library, Cambridge has the Wren Library, and Johns Hopkins has the George Peabody Library. In Nigeria, the University of Ibadan’s Kenneth Dike Library is famous for the extensiveness of its collections and the quality of research it helped to generate. The tragedy is that those days are firmly in the past. As the student population of the country’s universities has risen exponentially, the pressure on library facilities has become virtually unbearable. Space and seating are insufficient; acquisitions are irregular and arbitrary; digitisation has failed to properly take off. The insufficient facilities in academic libraries are worsened by poor municipal services, especially power and water. The absence of the former deprives many libraries of the artificial lighting without which it is impossible to study, and the lack of water often results in the absence of functional toilet facilities for library users. In seeking a comprehensive solution to this situation, it is crucial that funding issues are properly resolved. ASUU argued for a 10 per cent budgetary allocation to university libraries in its negotiations with the Federal Government last year. This is in line with laid-down directives from the National Universities Commission (NUC). The propriety of the union’s contention is beyond question, but it does not allow for the fact that the funding of public universities has fallen significantly in recent times. In the 2019 national budget, N311.2 billion, representing just 3.5 per cent of the total, has been proposed for Nigeria’s 43 federal universities. N293.5 billion of this amount is for recurrent expenditure, while a measly N17.7 billion will be for capital expenditure. In 2017, the University of Ibadan got N99 million for capital projects out of the N13 billion allocated to it. In 2018, that figure fell to N66 million. Funding shortfalls like this make it impossible to find the resources needed to rehabilitate and expand university libraries, especially when basic necessities like classrooms, lecture theatres and sanitation require urgent attention. This means that the universities must seek alternative means of financing their libraries. In the first instance, better use must be made of the library dues all students pay as part of their statutory fees. Such payments should not be diverted to other uses, but strictly applied to maintaining the universities’ libraries. The example of other nations has shown that it is possible to obtain endowments which focus specifically on libraries. Nigeria’s profusion of very wealthy individuals is an untapped resource for this strategy. In addition, alumni associations should be engaged on the possibility of adopting particular universities as part of specific programmes of action. But all these would not amount to much if the corruption out there has also infested the university system. If the report in The Punch, to the effect that each public university got an allocation of N168m in five years is true; then, we cannot in all honesty say the libraries are not funded. N168m may not be enough to equip them with all the needed books and materials but it certainly would go a long way in meeting a substantial part of the requirements. ASUU should first do a thorough audit of how these funds were spent before raising the alarm of inadequate funds. If Nigeria’s academic libraries are not restored to their pride of place, any attempt to reinvigorate the country’s universities will be doomed to failure.