The newly posted Commissioner of Police to Bauchi state, CP Habu A. Sani  already hit the ground running with the recent arrest of 43 criminals suspects in the state capital. Parading the suspected criminals  on Saturday at the State Police Command  Headquarters, Yandoka road , Bauchi, the CP said the suspects were arrested in connection with different offences such as Sara Suka, (A notorious gang group ), Babeli (another cult group notorious for extra judicial killings in the state) The exhibits recovered from the suspects include; 1 locally made pistol with 6 rounds 0.7mm caliber of live ammunition, 15 cutlasses, 32 cutlasses, 1 motorcycle, 40 wraps of dry leave suspected to be Indian hemp and bottles of codeine syrup with 903 pieces of counterfeit 100 U.S dollar note. CP Habu Sani said 8 out of the 43 suspects were already convicted after  they were charged to court. He said further that the remaining 35 who are in the police custody are currently undergoing investigation. The arrest he noted was in line with the Inspector Generic of police(IGP) Mohammad Abubakar Adamu,’s agenda of community based Policing and the ongoing special operation code named “Operation Puff Adder” Also announcing the launch of the Community Policing at the Nupawa quarters in the State Capital, CP Halilu restated his commitment to see that the policing strategy in the state under his leadership is intelligence-led and community policing driven guided by intelligence at strategic ,operational and tactical levels. The Nation gathered that the new strategy will be in collaboration with critical stakeholders in communities and volunteer security outfits. The critical stakeholders are Traditional rulers/ District heads and Religious leaders in the state. The security outfit include; The Bauchi State Peace and Security Committee ( Yan Kwamiti), Vigilante Group of Nigeria, Danga Security, amongst others. In his words ” The strategy would equally be proactive , preventive in orientation and conducted  within the context of public ownership, partnership, participation, problem solving and community support with a mainstream society “It is in line with Inspector General of Police, (IGP) Mohammed Abubakar Adamu agenda of community based Policing and the ongoing special operation code named “Operation Puff Adder” “It is in view of the above  that, we reviewed , analysed and re-strategised our policing approach in the state with a strategy that is Police- Community Policing Partnership to augment our manpower challenges and checkmate crimes in the state such ad Sara-Suka, Armed Robbery, Kidnapping and other crimes squarely. “Consequently, the Area of Responsibility (AOR) of all police divisions in the state have now been crime mapped in to sectors and proportionate number of security men from police and volunteer outfits have been mobilized to patrol the areas with particular attention to locations identified as hot spots for getting information on early warning signals, prevention of crime and timely response to incidents/ distress calls. The CP mentioned the five police divisions within the Bauchi Metropolis that have been sectorised into forty-two divisions as; ‘A’ Divison ( Township) with 11 sectors, ‘B’ (GRA) – 10 sectors , ‘C’ Division ( Tafawa Balewa Housing Estate)- 8 sectors, ‘D’ Division ( Dutsen Tanshi) – 6 sectors and ‘E’ Division ( Yelwa) –  with 7 sectors. “About 1500 police and volunteers have been deployed 42 sectors to maintain peace, this is apart from the Divisional routine patrols in their respective jurisdiction and Special Tactical Teams that are engaged in the Operation Puff Adder to sustain the fight against crime across the state “he said. Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers, a district head of Nupawa Community , Alh. Nuru Adamu Jumba lauded the initiative of the CP saying the the community would gladly cooperate with the police to eradicate crimes in the state. He called for more in terms of relationship with the police saying the synergy between the police and communities will pave way for peace in flash point areas in the state.