•Man spends 27 years behind bars on wrongful conviction How did a miscarriage of justice happen in the case of 56-year-old Clinton Kanu, who was freed by the Supreme Court on April 5, after 27 years on death row? Kanu, described as a “consultant criminologist,” was sentenced to death for murder in 1992. “Somebody was killed in the compound where my sister married,” Kanu recounted. “I was arrested because those behind my ordeal thought I was trying to resolve a land dispute in favour of one person.” This was the beginning of his hellish experience. He narrated:  ”I was taken to the Okigwe Police Station and later transferred to Owerri, where I was charged to court in April 1992. I was detained in the Owerri prison. I was at the tribunal for seven years because those behind my ordeal added armed robbery to the case…They brought false witnesses to testify against me at the tribunal. I was later taken to a regular court where I was condemned to death. From Owerri, I was transferred to the Port Harcourt prison. At the Port Harcourt prison, I waited for many years for the hangman’s noose.” It is unclear why the court found Kanu guilty. His legal battle against his death sentence showed his fighting spirit, and conviction that he was wrongfully convicted. By challenging the guilty verdict, he interestingly demonstrated faith in the same judicial system that had found him guilty. Kanu’s words: “I went to the Appeal Court to appeal the case, but my lawyer messed it up. Then I decided to proceed to the Supreme Court, where after 27 years in prison, I was vindicated. I was detained for nothing for 27 years; I was discharged and acquitted on April 5, 2019.” Twenty-seven years is a long time for an innocent man to spend in prison, worsened by a death sentence hanging over his head. It is understandable that Kanu is “considering asking for compensation from the Federal Government and my state.”  He is from Imo State. What compensation would be adequate for his wrongful conviction and the torturous time he spent on death row? He is seeking N20bn compensation. Indeed, Kanu’s suffering in jail before his redemption is unquantifiable. Prison conditions in Nigeria are notoriously appalling. “When you talk about the damage done to my business and to my health, due to the prison’s dirty environment, and a lot of other things that have gone wrong, if I put my losses in billions, I don’t think it is out of place,” Kanu declared. He has depended on the liberality of his church and relatives for feeding and accommodation since his release. There is no doubt that he needs rehabilitation; compensation by the relevant authorities would help him get back to normal life. The failure of justice in this case suggests a possible failure of justice in other cases. In other words, it is possible that there are other people on death row, or in prison, who were wrongfully convicted. This possibility calls for thoroughness by the courts as well as the investigating authorities. However, it is reassuring that Kanu’s wrongful conviction was eventually corrected. This means the country’s criminal justice system has the capacity to make amends if necessary. But it is far better to avoid a wrongful conviction than to void one.  The judicial system needs to enjoy public confidence, and should not be associated with miscarriage of justice. When there has been a failure of justice, such as Kanu’s case, it is appropriate to review what went wrong to prevent a recurrence. In the final analysis, there are compelling and unarguable moral reasons why wrongfully convicted persons should be compensated. Kanu’s experience is also a good reason why capital punishment deserves a review. He is lucky to live to regret his wrongful sentencing; if he had been executed before his innocence was established, it would have been too late for him to savour the air of freedom.