Few people doubt the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari’s leadership philosophy is rooted in integrity and transparency. It is for this reason that I am constrained to contribute to this piece as my token of making his next cabinet free of men with questionable characters. Even though my primary interest is my state, Akwa Ibom, it is also a pointer than anyone with a situation similar to ours should not be allowed near the Federal Executive Council (FEC). President Buhari has a remarkable victory, ordained by the almighty God and the overwhelming support of the good people of Nigeria. This comes with higher expectations and bigger responsibilities.  All eyes will be on the president to see how he will translate his Next Level programme from rhetoric to reality. It is my fervent prayer that he should succeed in positively turning the fortunes of our dear nation around in line with his programme. And for him to do this, he needs to avoid unnecessary distractions, irritations, rancour and bickering. There is no better start to having no distraction than recruiting the right men to assist him in actualising his programmes. We all have not forgotten that the few controversies around his government in the first term were as a result of the insensitive actions of some of his ministers, whose conducts were contrary to his discipline and conservative nature. Ministers in this dispensation must be men and women of great intellect, characters and abilities. Men of war and men who believe in bulldozing their ways even into areas where they are not wanted should steer clear of this cabinet and if they want to wriggle their way in, they should be told in unmistakable terms that there is no space for them. In our dear state, distinguished Senator Udoma Udoma gave a good account of himself in the last cabinet. A gentleman to the core and a major pillar of the last cabinet, in my view, deserves a place in the next cabinet and if for whatever reason, the president deems it fit to replace him, he certainly should not be replaced by Senator Godswill Akpabio. My major reason for this is not different from the position of a group of activists from the state. Permit me to quote from a news story published in Monday’s edition of this newspaper: “His corruption case with the EFCC has the potential of exploding into national embarrassment and credibility question for your government, should he be made a minister in a government that prides itself as anti-graft champion. We wish to remind you of your famous words, that ‘if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill us’. “Many had thought that his joining APC would bring a cool breeze of good fortunes to the party in the state, but rather, his highhanded nature and disrespect for internal democracy … became a raging storm that uprooted the recognised structures of the party … This overwhelming attitude, sadly, affected the chances of our governorship candidate, Obong Nsima Ekere (ONE). “Akwa Ibom State has several other eminent persons… just as Chief Udoma Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, has done creditably … And in terms of loyalty to the party and contributions to its development in the state, we have credible people, including Chief Umana Umana and Senator John Udoedehe, among others … “Akpabio has become very desperate for a fresh political power from the back door of ministerial appointment, which we fear he may use with vengeance against us… “His notoriety for flippancy is well known…For instance, he has started … boasting that Mr President is even begging me to accept a ministerial position.” The letter added: “And we believe that he needs a period of catharsis…to reflect and purge himself of bottled up negative emotions. And you can help him achieve that. You already have enough security challenges on your hands…” The group, which described itself as “core believers in Mr President’s leadership philosophy …” said the state must help “our leader achieve enhanced performance in his second and final term…” It added that Buhari’s second coming “comes with higher expectations and greater responsibilities…’’ as “all eyes will be on you and your government… to see how you will translate your Next Level programme … to the reality of the genuine positive impact that would leave Nigeria better than you met it. “Especially in your patriotic desire to decisively tackle insecurity … revive the economy and create jobs… “But we caution that to achieve these objectives…the country needs an atmosphere of peace and you and your government deserve an environment devoid of unnecessary distractions, irritations, rancour and bickering… “And the choice of personnel you recruit … would be a huge factor. Note that the few controversies around your government in the first term were actually as a result of the unethical or insensitive actions of some of those you appointed into your cabinet whose conduct were contrary to your …discipline and conservative nature.” If the decision were solely mine, Udoma will have a smooth ride back into the cabinet, but as I pointed out, if Udoma needs to be dropped, there are many credible Akwa Ibom sons and daughters that can fit the bill. This government should not allow itself to be bogged down by Akpabio’s baggage. I sincerely believe he ran into the All Progressives Congress (APC) in search of freedom from prosecution. He tried his best to return to the Senate; he failed. He did his best to get ONE to be governor, his best was abysmal. He also could not help the President to get enough votes in Akwa Ibom. He is, for me, a liability and the President should not allow him into his cabinet under any guise— no matter the pressure. It should not just be Akpabio. Anybody who is being tried by any of the anti-graft agencies should clear himself first and free the government from distraction. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is waiting patiently to see the calibre of men and women that will make the list of ministerial nominees and allowing individuals who are under probe or are being tried for graft will certainly make it easy for the party to rubbish the government. Please, Mr. President, your last lap deserves to be better than the first and staying far from men with queried characters is one of the ways to ensure this. I wish Mr. President all the best!