Spotting a lie when you are interrogating someone, a stranger is talking to you or even when a friend is telling you something is not really easy to know. It requires paying much attention, reading in between the lines to be able to read individuals and uncover hidden truths. Here are the ways that can help you tell when for example job candidates, negotiating partners, love partner or major business executives are being deceptive. If you hope to know the truth, come across as empathetic in conversation, and you’ll get the person to open up more than when you are cold and accusatory. Ask them something they don’t expect, and they’ll stumble. This is not to say that a conversation partner who does one or more of the above is lying to you. But if you witness these actions, proceed with caution. “No” is a key word to observe if you suspect someone is trying to mislead you. A person is often demonstrating deceptive behavior when they:  If they add details, they often don’t add up. If you suspect someone is being deceptive, ask the person to recall events backward rather than forward in time. For example, start at the end of a story and ask them to explain what happened right before that point. And then, before that and so on. For truthful people, this makes recall easier. Liars often simplify the story to avoid contradicting themselves. Agreeing with all of your opinions, constantly offering praise, and laughing at all of your jokes are signs that one lacks authenticity and sincerity. For example, a job interview candidate might be tempted to hide details about getting fired from a previous job. But if the person is qualified, has a great personality, and would fit great with your company, shouldn’t you keep the conversation going? If you’re puzzled by a response, explore with follow-up questions. In the situation mentioned above, you might move the conversation forward in this way: “You know, I (or a friend/family member) once lost a job for making a really stupid mistake. Have you ever experienced anything like that? How do you think mistakes on the job should be handled?” When in doubt, continue to ask discerning questions. In time, you’ll be able to spot deceit like a pro.