Almost four years ago – July 9, 2015 – I wrote a piece on this page titled: “Nostalgia.” It was triggered by the popular children education programme “Sesame Street.” I was moved to write that piece after Sonia Manzano, the beautiful lady with the stage name “Maria” left the show after a 44 year active involvement. Prior to writing, I didn’t know she was still around. I had to fish out an old DVD collection of the show I bought to show my son how educational programmes were done back in the days. Today, most things revolve around violence and subtly coopting children into lifestyles their innocent minds are not prepared for. We shall get to that shortly. What caught my attention about “Maria” were the long years she dedicated to impacting the lives of millions of children around the world. On the show, she ran a Fix-It Shop with her on-screen husband, Emilio Delgado. The two-time Emmy nominee and award-winning writer – who was 65 then – joined the show in 1971. She regularly gave advice to characters like Big Bird and Elmo. She was born in New York City and was raised in South Bronx. Her parents moved to the city from Puerto Rico. Also an author, her children’s book “No Dogs Allowed,” published in 2004, is one of five books selected by the General Mills – an American multinational manufacturer of consumer foods – initiative “Spoonfuls of Stories.” Apart from helping children across the United States – and globally – gain access to books, it also encourages them to read. The aim of the show over the years is to improve the cognitive skills of preschoolers so that they would be better prepared for primary school education. By using TV as a medium, the Children Television Workshop (CTW) succeeded in bringing the educational message to a large proportion of preschool children. In fact, among its target group of 3-5 year olds, “Sesame Street” is very popular. It was reported that millions of households watch this program whenever it is shown. Unfortunately, the show was on the news for the wrong reasons recently. It is also the reasons parents in this post-modern and post-truth era need to pay careful attention to the programmes their children watch and the news they listen to in this age. Parents also need to pay careful attention to languages subtle spoken and the characters in such programmes. Late last year – September 21, 2018 – a series of “breaking news” stories at the lesbians, gays, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) – oriented “The Advocate” Magazine’s website described “Sesame Street” icons Bert and Ernie as a “Loving Couple;” the subtle message was that they are in a homosexual relationship! A few days later, a follow-up story “Despite Writer’s Revelation, Sesame Street’ Denies Bert & Ernie Are Gay” followed. This was countered with:  “Sesame Street’: Bert and Ernie Are ‘Best Friends,’ Not Lovers.” This is the world we now live in where because of their impressionable minds children are taught to do things they are bound not to understand at a certain age. In a photo illustrating the first piece, the two celebrity Muppets hug each other.  In the next, they are pictured side-by-side. In the third – which delivered the gut-wrenching bad blow to the LGBT world – they are seated far apart enough on a couch that Elmo can squeeze in between them. It all begin when a former Sesame Street writer, Mark Saltzman, said he based the characters of Muppet live-in buddies Bert and Ernie on his own homosexual relationship. Saltzman, who wrote scripts and songs for Sesame Street from 1985 to 1998, reportedly said he patterned Bert on his live-in long-term lover, film editor Arnold Glassman, and Ernie on himself. But while Saltzman’s admission evoked cries of vindication from the LGBT movement that the longstanding rumours were true, Sesame Street Workshop and Muppet creator Frank Oz swiftly denied that Bert and Ernie are “gay.” “I created Bert. I know what and who he is,” tweeted Oz, the actor and puppeteer who, along with the late Jim Henson, co-created many Muppet characters, and who played Bert to Henson’s Ernie. And Oz dismissed a Twitter observation that “characters often evolve beyond their creators’ intentions. Likewise, Sesame Workshop countered Saltzman’s revelations by tweeting that Bert and Ernie are “puppets and do not have a sexual orientation.” In order not be accused of being homophobic (hatred of homosexuality), Sesame Street deleted the tweet so as not be further accused of being politically incorrect. Nonetheless, the controversy continued with a 4th article “The Problem With Saying Bert and Ernie Are Not Gay,” which also appeared on “The Advocate” website, lamenting assertions from Oz and Sesame Street that the famous Muppets do not suffer from same-sex attraction. Over the years, the LGBT world has tried to paint not only puppets but many historical figures as ‘gay’ or ‘lesbian,’ based solely on imaginary thinking and flimsy evidence. The goal is the normalisation of homosexuality by making it attractive and acceptable. “The Advocate” commentary cites Vito Russo’s The Celluloid Closet which claims many of the celebrities from Hollywood’s glory days were ‘gay.’ For example, the FBI’s famous first director, J. Edgar Hoover, was popularly portrayed as not only homosexual but as an occasional drag queen. An entire book – The Intimate World of Abraham Lincoln – devotes 343 pages to portraying President Abraham Lincoln as a closeted ‘gay.’ Homosexual writers have even asserted that the Old Testament’s David and Jonathan in the Bible were homosexual lovers. Fr. James Martin, SJ, an outspoken proponent of the normalisation of homosexuality and transgenderism within the Catholic Church famously sent out a Tweet two years ago, saying, “Some saints were probably gay or lesbian. Which ones? Hard, even impossible, to say. But if a certain percentage of people are gay or lesbian, then some are surely among the Communion of Saints.” One thing is now clear, the LGBT issue is now a global phenomenon and parents – in Nigeria – neglect it to their peril. Of all the issues of our day, parents are most likely to become tongue-tied in response to their children’s questions about sexuality. We fear they’ll be confused if we have the conversation. In all likelihood, they’ll be more confused if we don’t. The LGBT issue is now deep-seated with powerful theories and propositions to back it up with a determined and formidable media ready to push it through with ferocious force. It is now a pop culture thing with celebrity “role models” using multimedia channels to showcase how “cool” it can be. Parents with strong spiritual viewpoints need to explore ways of discussing this issue with their children and not to be tongue-tied. For me, as a Christian, I affirm the biblical view of marriage. I also affirm the biblical view of gender and the biblical view of everything. While it’s one thing to discuss a mural that celebrates an unbiblical perspective, what’s a Christian parent to do with actual people? Increasingly, our lives are intersecting with neighbours, coaches, friends, and even pastors who have chosen to affirm and practice same-sex marriage and relationships. How do we, as someone has put it, build bridges of grace that can bear the weight of truth? How do we help our children navigate relationships with people who have chosen a path other than God’s best for them? This is a balancing act that needs deep introspection and divine guidance. The idea that people can decide what’s right and wrong for themselves, with no moral absolutes and therefore no sin, directly contradicts the Christian gospel. I am aware that we can’t avoid the issue of alternative sexualities with our children, but thankfully, we can address it with the same biblical framework we use for everything else. A subtle inroad is being made into the impressionable minds of our children and we have to be on guard to counter such narratives.