Giving maximum support by all citizens for the incoming administration of the People Democratic Party PDP in Zamfara state is the only option that will ensure development of the state. Governor Abdul Aziz Abubakar Yari of Zamfara state has disclosed. Yari revealed that supporting the PDP incoming governor Dr. Bello Muhammad Matawalle will surely yield dividends of democracy and ensure developmental progress of the state pointing out that it will also assist in arresting the escalating insecurity situation that is bedevilling the state. Yari who was fielding questions from newsmen at his residence in Talatar Mafara late evening Saturday on last Friday’s outcome of the supreme court judgement where the Apex court judged that the All Progressives congress APC has participated in the last general elections without valid candidates having conducted invalid primary elections, ruling that the runner up in all the categories of elections that fulfilled constitutional provisions should be filled in as winners. Yari further countered speculations that he’ll decamped to another political party because of the crisis that ended up in losing his senatorial seat explaining that he has never decamped to any political party in the history of his political career. “I gave the name APC to our political party in Lagos in the presence of Abdul Rauf Aregbesola, Abdul Fatah Ahmed, leader of the APC Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and a host of others, I have no reason to decamped whatsoever is the problem or the crisis that surrounded us politically in Zamfara state.” Yari said Yari stressed that it is the will of Allah that saw him as governor of the state for the past eight years and it is also the sane Allah that ordain Dr. Bello Muhammad to be governor of Zamfara state this time. The struggle according to Governor Yari has just begun adding that he’ll support any initiatives that will bring progress of the state. Yari said he has bequeathed a legacy that will be easy for the next governor to have an easy landing in the development of Zamfara state. He advised all APC stalwarts and supporters to be law abiding and continue to project the image of the party at all level and take everything as an act from Allah saying that it is only when the incoming governor has peace in his mind that he can lead by example will arrest any unwanted ailment in Zamfara. INEC has Monday 27th May, for presentation of certificate for the governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives elections while Friday 31st of same moth for the presentation of certificate of return to the state house of assembly elect.