In a statement signed by President and Secretary of the organisation, Dr. Christian Duru and Mrs. Chinwe Eboh, the group explained May 30 signifies a day of sorrow (Iru Uju) and not of partisan politics for Ndigbo. It said: “It is the responsibility of Ndi’Igbo to not betray their fallen heroes and heroines. “The Biafran war is our history and we must uphold it. Biafra Remembrance Day serves to empower the current Igbo leadership at all levels, re-evaluate their roles and responsibility, and frontally assess the many reversals in our contemporary Igbo existence, including incoherent leadership and absence of creative followership. “Any attempt to politicise this day with narratives that tend to undermine the millions of Igbo lives that were lost during the Nigerian/Biafran war would amount to scoring cheap political points.” It insisted that May 30th Remembrances is an integral and crucial part of the Igbo cultural and traditional etiquettes that compels the Igbo to pay adequate and befitting homage to their dead. According to the group, the observance of May 30th through total abstinence from commercial and economic activity by Ndi’Igbo all over Nigeria, and the global Diaspora is an expression of our eternal patriotic duty, not only to the Igbo nation now but also to generations unborn. “The Igbo have always held the belief that life is greater than what sustains it. Just as we honor our traditional market days, namely, Afor, Eke, Nkwo and Orie, GIA faithfully reiterates the final call for Ndi’Igbo to seal May 30th 2019 as a sacred day for remembrance of the heroes and heroines who fell, so that, the Igbo nation will rise. “We also take this opportunity to commemorate the Centenary (100 years) anniversary of the Aba Womens’ Revolt of 1929 when our women showed great resilience and proved that Ndi’Igbo (both men and women) are strong agents of political and economic reform. “If, we abandon our cultural heritage, and fail to immortalise our most tragic historical experience of the 20th Century, then, we are surrendering our divine rights to political expediency. “The consequence therefore, is that next time, when history visits with its baptism of fire, the Igbo nation will be forever extinct,” it stated.