It is illegal and an offence to ride any vessel on the waterways without a life jacket, Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Mr. Oluwadamilola Emmanuel said yesterday. Speaking exclusively to The Nation in his office at Falomo, Lagos, he said that was why the authority had been going round the state to distribute life jackets. He said although the acquisition of the item ought to be the responsibility of vessel operators, the government had been at the forefront of distributing life jackets because of its commitment to make the waterways safe for passengers. Emmanuel said: “We have been going round the state to distribute life jackets to boat operators. We started with distributing this most essential kit to 80 operators in Ikorodu and just last week we were at Ojo/Badagry to distribute jackets to operators.” He said once every operator in every division had been served, the authority could begin to enforce the laws making riding on the water routes without the jacket illegal. The LASWA boss said the distribution of life jackets had become a yearly event, adding that “this government is doing it to ensure that the water routes are made safe for all users.” He said the authority had also started the distribution of life jackets to children, noting that with this, the lives of children, “especially pupils and students who commute to and from school on boats everyday have become safer.” Emmanuel said besides distributing the jackets, the agency also engaged the operators and users on the right way to latch them such that it would guaranty lives and ensure that anyone who used them  rightly would remain afloat on water in case of an accident. He said LASWA was championing a culture whereby everyone living in riverine areas would have at least one life jacket. “No one should go on water or enter boat without putting on the life jacket. “Since accident does not announce when it will happen or where, it is advisable for anyone living in riverine areas not to attempt going out without it. Fasten the belts around the jacket and hook it very well. It is meant to protect lives. But if not properly used, it can be injurious to the user,” Emmanuel added. The LASWA chief said the authority would champion safe waterways, adding that the agency’s regulations, which were sacrosanct for operators, were meant to protect lives. He said the authority would promote safe, affordable and convenient water transportation. According to him, “LASWA is happy with the giant strides of the government in repositioning waterway transportation.”