Enterprise security expert, ITANDT with its partners, IBM has identified five key ways to secure enterprises from data breaches by cybercrooks. Speaking at 2019  Secure Forum in Lagos, they said though cyber- attacks continue to expand with vanishing network perimeters, they warned against too much reliance on compliance because compliance and security are two different things. They said doing the minimum-what regulators demand-is not enough, as regulators come and go but the criminals remain.  Arguing that not all data of value is regulated data, compliance must be a continuous process, and act as a catalyst for improved data security overall. Data security must be holistic and integrated with cloud, multi-cloud, hybrid cloud and enterprise-wide, on premises IT platforms, while protection must be extended beyond Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) and network security, to prioritising and addressing exposed critical data. Enterprises must avoid diffusion of responsibilities across infromation technology (IT), Database Administrators (DBAs), security compliance,   line-of-business (LoB) as this could lead to lack of accountability enterprise-wide; every data set needs owners as well as curators, just as your organisation may need a data protection officer. Patch vulnerabilities and make sure  track of all assets and data sources that need patching, including production and test environments that contain sensitive data are kept. Scan to assess vulnerabilities frequently, automatically, and look for results that are prioritised by urgency. Monitor everything and create a data deluge, but find automated classification, vulnerability assessments, and file and databases activity monitoring tools with ; what-if’ analytics to uncover your key risks and unusual behaviours. IBM Technical Specialist,  Khalid Shaban, said  mobile malware is growing and that at any given time, malicious code is infecting mobile devices, as 97 and 87 per cent of top paid android and IOS apps have been hacked. Today’s threats are real, and no one is immune, Shaban said, adding that malware threats are no longer the most prevalent but the scourge of phishing links. In every 20 seconds, a new phishing site is registered, as over 45 per cent of organisations have had devices encounter crypto jacking attacks. Chief Information Security Officer, Central  Bank of Nigeria CBN, Rakiya Mohammed, said most mobile IT landscape risks arise from poor governance, data loss, weak infrastructure, impersonation and loss or stole devices.