With a €180, 000 (about N72.6 million) German grant for constructing pilot walkways on some roads, LAMATA is set to champion walking, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE In the next one month, Lagos Government officials and volunteers in the transportation and logistics planning space will be on Lagos Island and parts of the mainland, to study how safe the roads are for walking. On their phones will be installed a new app, Stride, which they have been trained to deploy. In the main, the app seeks to input data on walkability status of the roads. The government is deploying them to collect data on how safe, convenient, and comfortable the walkways are. The research is to score the Lagos roads on three critical benchmarks. One, safety; two, design and three, street lights, road markings, and kerbs to protect pedestrians and make walking safe for all classes of people, especially those living with disabilities. These are to be collated from 1000 respondents across five roads. Picked for the scheme are the Catholic Mission Street on Lagos Island and WEMPCO road, Agidingbi, on the Mainland. The app has three lights – green, which means the road is good and safe to walk; amber, which means it’s somewhat safe and red, which means it’s not safe. LAMATA’s idea is to paint all the state’s roads red. Reason: but for the newly constructed roads, virtually none is safe for walking. LAMATA’s effort at promoting walking under the Transformative Urban Mobility Initiative (TUMI) is the new policy direction of the government. The lead consultant and African trainer on the Stride App, Dr Charles Asenime, said painting all the roads red, is what would make Lagos qualify for the German funding in providing an intervention capable of ensuring zero pedestrian deaths on the roads. Asenime, an Associate Professor in the Department of Transport Planning and Policy, Lagos State University (LASU), said Kenya is already deploying the app to make its roads safer for pedestrians. He said with its population, and a growing and uncontrolled urban sprawl, it would be a great disservice if the government continues to ignore or fail to optimally use the roads. Besides providing for automobiles, whether articulated, or any four, three or two wheeler or automated or manual propelled, he said pedestrian contents of Lagos roads are almost non-existent. LAMATA’s data puts Lagos population at 22 million (though Lagos State Statistics Office puts same at 26.6 million). About 24 million trips are generated in the state daily and of this figure, 8.8 million (about 40 percent) walk as a means of transportation to their destinations and back home. Asenime said from the data of the walking population, it is a misnomer that the government would continue to ignore walking, which he described as the oldest form of transportation by man, in its road planning and execution. Promoting non-motorised transportation has been on the LAMATA’s plate almost since its establishment as a special purpose vehicle to drive the state’s transportation masterplan. One of the roads constructed to pioneer the NMT thinking was WEMPCO Road, delivered to Lagosians in 2014. It has 1.5mm width of walkway and a bicycle lane on both lanes, to promote walking and cycling as the new form of transportation, especially for last-mile shuttles. Why TUMI The Commissioner for Transportation Ladi Lawanson said the unplanned interaction between pedestrians and motorised vehicles has led to a growing casualty rate, most of which are underreported and classified under the hit and run by reckless drivers. “There is no recognition for non-motorised means of transportation as there are few segregated traffic facilities, such as walkways, zebra crossings, footbridges, underpasses and traffic signals for pedestrians and cyclists. ‘’The result is that pedestrians are frequently forced to walk on the carriageways sharing the same roadway with motor vehicles leading to low safety, worsened by the problem of road capacity and absence of road hierarchy,” Lawanson said. This, according to him, has led to  about 1.3 millon deaths from road accidents globally. Addressing experts from the ministries of Environment, Works, Transportation, parks and Gardens, the media and the academia last Wednesday, Lawanson said the challenge is a reversal that would make the roads safer for the young, the elderly and the poor, who may not be able to ride a car or even afford the money to hike a ride on public buses. He said the new NMT policy secured for the state a slot in the inaugural TUMI for Global Urban Mobility Challenge for the award of financial support by the Deutsche GessellSchaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH on behalf of Germany’s Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), with LAMATA receiving the award on behalf of the government in Leipzig on May 25, 2018. The award came with a €180, 000 (about N72.6million) grant to develop and implement a five-kilometre of new rehabilitated sidewalk in the most-walked part of Lagos Island Central Business Districts (CBD) to improve walkability significantly. The pilot sidewalk would also be implemented along 1km of the new Ikeja Bus Terminal, as well as 20 other landmark areas of the state. The government’s intention is to create walkways on 20 identified walking destinations in Ikeja and Lagos Island CBD. Among the 19 other landmark areas pencilled for the TUMI survey are the National Museum, Old Parliament Building, Race Course, Independent Building, Lagos High Court, Kings College and City Hall. Others are; Freedom park, the Old Legislative Building, the Police Magistrate Court, Tinubu Square, the Old Pier Point on Marina, Glover Memorial Hall, the Cathedral and the General Hospital. The others are Wesley House, State House, Yacht Club and Muson Centre. LAMATA said when fully on steam, the policy would help restore the culture of walking. LAMATA’s Managing Director Biodun Dabiri said the fear of the road has stopped the culture of parents walking their children to school and that even pupils who still take the risk form clusters to avoid being run over by reckless drivers who have taken over the roads. Describing the road as a collective heritage that transcends social stratifications Dabiri, who was represented by the Director Corporate Planning and Investment Mr Frederic Oladeinde said: “Irrespective of your class, rich or poor, the road is a collective heritage and belongs to all. In LAMATA we believe that the poor whose only means of transportation is walking have as equal right to the safe use of the road as the rich ensconced in their cars. This is why we are bent on achieving this new direction.” He said the civil rehabilitation of the Catholic Mission Street sidewalks leading to the rear end of the TBS would have, among other features, construction of new walkways kerbs and pavement, provision of new traffic and pedestrian crossing signal lights at Kings College/Old Defence Road intersection, provision of traffic signs, and installation of bollards. Other features would be the replacement of stolen steel manhole covers with fibre resins (WNL type) manhole covers, desilting of drainages, provision of walkway abuse/regulatory signs and removal of walkway obstruction and obstacles, including signages and utilities. “Upon completion, the entire corridor would be landscaped and beautified by professional fine art curator who will paint murals and give the entire environment an aesthetic facelift,” the LAMATA director added. Benefits With about 37 percent of journeys in cities being non-motorised and some African cities, including Nigeria recording over 80 percent of all journeys by foot, promoting walkability in Lagos, among others, aims at achieving a safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all. Propagating a walkable Lagos at the Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities workshop, in Lagos earlier this year, the Programme Manager Heinrich Boll Stiftung Nigeria, Mrs Monika Umunna, said the German organisation was championing a campaign to return to walking. Opening the state’s transportation space for non- motorised form of transportation would increase access by all transport modes, improve more investments for pedestrians and cyclists, reduce use of personal vehicles, improve the reach of public transportation, improve air quality as well as improve traffic safety. Umunnah, a German-Nigerian, said the motorisation of the roads have led to the unhealthy growth of impersonal lifestyles, where people have become too distant from each other as a result of the barriers constructed around themselves. “Even neighbours, who used to see each other before no longer do so, not only are we held back by high fence walls round our homes, relating on the roads is no longer impossible as we take our children to school in air-conditioned cars, blocking communication channels with other members of the community,” Umunnah said. Her non-governmental organisation (NGO), which she said is being funded by the German Green Foundation is championing walking and other non-motorised transportation across the world because it improves air quality, cutting down on pollutants and other GHGs, helps reduces congestion as well as the promotion of healthy lifestyles as a result of regular exercises. Dabiri said besides the promotion of good healthy lifestyles, the NMT policy would encourage high investment in the development of “green corridors” across the city by planting of trees to provide shade for pedestrians and absorb pollutants, as well as a drastic slash in transportation spend, which ranges from eight percent to 16 percent of urban income spending to more than 25 percent for the poorest households in very large cities. According to Dabiri, the NMT ‘s TUMI policy would aid the development of key infrastructure to facilitate pedestrian movements and community integration and complement the integration of multi-modal transportation dream of the government. The policy, when passed into law, he said, will involve three levels – community integration through the creation of a continuous pedestrian network, connection of pedestrian network with main public transport corridors and accessibility to the main transportation hubs and interchanges of the city with significant passenger demand. With the community buy-in, the government, he said, hopes to erase the over-run of these walkways by traders who ply their trades on them. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Taiwo Salaam, disclosed that the government had also approved that the width of the walkways be increased to 1.5metres from 1.3metres and that this would be fenced off by a metal barrier. He said a more organised walkway might help resolve the interactions of pedestrians and vehicles on main corridor. “We are determined to build roads that will cater to the needs of all classes of users. This will reduce traffic congestion and make the road safer for all,” Salaam added.