In 2014, Godwin Oghenegueke was hired as a cleaner of Samsung’s welding floor, and he never expected he would have a chance to be one of the first beneficiaries of Samsung’s free-of-charge welding training course. Oghenegueke said; “I started by watching over the shoulders of the students grinding, welding and coating, seeing this, the Korean instructors invited me to help them with small tasks. Even though it was a small thing, having seen my commitment and hard work, they invited me to train with them.’” Today, God is an internationally-certified welder, permanently hired by Samsung as a professional welder. Goanghun Kim, a senior trainer at Samsung’s Welding Qualification Center (WQC) noted “passion” and “enthusiasm to learn and improve” are the most valued attributes they seek in Samsung’s future team members. “There was lot of resistance amongst existing trainees. They saw him as beneath them. We told those students that background is not important. As long as you are devoted in developing your skills, that’s what matters to us.” Creating equal opportunities and instilling an inclusive work culture enabled Samsung to break record after record. Motivated by trust and without the constraints of societal prejudice, Samsung’s Nigerian trainees and employees were propelled to keep pushing the boundaries of industry norms. Samsung can proudly boast a 100 percent pass rate in the international welder training program. These achievements eventually led the SHI-MCI integration and fabrication yard to become one of the few companies in Africa to be awarded accreditation and training certificates by national and international bodies including the Nigerian Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment and the International Institute of Welding. Welding trainer, Goanghun Kim, believes Samsung’s work culture and equal opportunity policy are just enablers and the achievements are due to the more than 3,000 individuals just like Godwin who worked tirelessly. “Nigerians should be proud and empowered by these achievements. This proves the competency and potential of Nigerian people in the international job market and will help establish Nigeria as an engineering hub to global manufacturing industries. “Nigerians are ambitious and hard working. I have never seen such enthusiasm and eagerness to improve and to learn.” An international welding certificate training course similar to Oghenegueke’s can cost on average between N2.5-2.8 million per person, which makes the course unaffordable for many Nigerians without extra financial support. Oghenegueke is one of many inspiring stories from the Egina project. “I would not have been able to afford this training without Samsung’s help. I know of many lives which improved thanks to the project. ‘’Some people came in as helpers and now they are assistant managers, scaffolders, welders, operators or riggers. I also came in as nobody and now I can help my grandma and younger siblings.” In 2018, at the peak of the construction and integration of the Egina FPSO, over 3,000 Nigerians were employed by Samsung (SHI-MCI). Samsung chose to meet this challenge head-on not by mobilising employees from overseas but instead  investing 560,000 man hours of training programs with one goal in mind: to identify future Nigerian talent who could participate in the historic completion of the Egina FPSO. This transformation resulted in thousands of Nigerians eventually joining Samsung team to form the core of Samsung’s first heavy industries operation on the African continent.