The demand for wheat has been growing over the years, leading to increased importation. To reduce the dependence on imports and conserve forex, a firm, Crown Flour Mills, a subsidiary of Olam Grains, says it is determined to increase production, DANIEL ESSIET reports. DESPITE the high demand, wheat production is low and facing challenges, such as poor seedlings, prolonged droughts, pests and diseases. Nigeria still depends on imports. This is affecting its foreign exchange reserves. According to reports, Africa spends about $12 billion on 40 million tons of wheat yearly. In Nigeria, the demand for wheat stands at 4.2 million tons yearly. Eighty per cent of the wheat produced  in the country is cultivated by small-scale farmers in Kebbi and Sokoto states. What is produced locally from this two states, analysts say, is too small. Wheat production is said to have dropped from 600,000 tons to less than 400,000 tonnes. Besides, one of the major challenges of wheat production, according to experts, is the type grown. The unfavourable local climate requires expensive irrigation and makes Nigeria unsuitable for growing hard red winter wheat. The variety used for making bread and flour is mostly found in the United States and Canada. Hard wheat is found only in the tropics. It is heat tolerant and can be found mainly in the North. Hard wheat has lower gluten content, making it unsuitable for bread making; also, it has a low yield.  Farmers struggle for improved seeds  The National Chairman of Wheat Farmers Association of Nigeria (WFAN), Salim Muhammad, said certified high-yielding wheat seeds were not readily accessible to farmers. This, he said, was a major constraint facing his members who want to cultivate. Muhammad said for several years wheat farmers had been facing problems, especially that of improved seeds, price and viable market for the grain. The President said farmers were supposed to be provided with improved seeds every two years, adding that for years Lake Chad Research Institute (LCRI) that has the mandate on wheat hasn’t been providing the seeds to farmers. Muhammed said wheat seeds  used in the producing states were foundation seeds and that no company  produces certified wheat seeds. The Federal Government and the African Development Bank launched the Technologies for African Agricultural Transformation (TAAT) compact programme for the wheat value chain. At  the workshop held at the Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria in Abuja, the Executive Director, Lake Chad Research Institute (LCRI), Dr Kaleson Gwadi, said the programme focused on the country’s commitment to self-sufficiency in wheat production. He said the programme would scale up wheat technologies and deploy best practices that would ensure farmers increase yields from the current 3.0t/hectare(ha) to 5-6 t/ha. Gwadi said LCRI will provide farmers with technical assistance to help the Federal Government save foreign exchange from reduced imports. He  said the institute  has improved its research into wheat by coming up with a strain that can survive in high temperature and a marginal areas. Funding for the project came from theAfrican Development Bank (AfDB), aiming at ensuring Africa is self-sufficient in wheat production. Thirteen states are expected to take part in the programme to cultivate the product. They are Kano, Kebbi Jigawa, Bauchi, Zamfara, Sokoto, Adamawa, Borno, Katsina, Yobe, Gombe, Kaduna and Plateau. The institute is targeting 300,000 hectares – an average yield of four tons per hectare.  Private sector response  But some firms are determined to promote wheat farming. One of them is Crown Flour Mills, a subsidiary of Olam Grains Nigeria. The company plans to cultivate wheat as part of its backward integration drive.This will involve   planting improved wheat varieties yearly. Olam Grains Managing Director Anurag Shukla said the company was  partnering farmers’association and the Federal Government to boost wheat production of the commodity. “We are working actively with the wheat famers association and the Presidency to ensure that famers can grow wheat effectively and efficiently. “It is one of our core focus areas because we believe that Nigeria can grow wheat, especially in the northern region,” he said at a forum in Abuja. He said the company has been expanding its footprint in the flour milling industry since 2010 when it first acquired Crown Flour Mills. He added that with its recent plan to acquire Dangote Flour, the company will emerge the biggest flour miller in the country. Shukla highlighted opportunities in the wheat-milling industry, saying it has the potential to create 10 million jobs across the entire value chains. “We strongly believe that in Nigeria, the flour milling industry is one business that can provide employment. This is something that is close to our heart since we started 30 years ago,” he said. The Vice-President Commercial Crown Flour Mills Bolaji Anifowose, said there is need to support  dealers in different capacity. Anifowose said. He added that Crown Flour is a  customer centric compliance firm and that it will be launching a loyalty club for its customers across the country. “We would ensure that we support our customers individually to ensure that they keep growing  more than their competitors,”  he said. The Chairman, Association of Master Bakers & Caterers of Nigeria Abuja chapter, Ishaq Abdul Raheem, said the company’s excellent marketing strategy has continued to drive sales for its products more than that of other competitors. “There is high acceptance of the product in the market and the management have a listening ear to our queries and complaints by ensuring they are resolved quickly,” she said.