At the valedictory event for the outgoing Honourable Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, the Minister attributed his acclaimed revolutionary achievements in the Oil and Gas sector of Nigeria to deliberate collegiate system of administration and not an achievement singly brought about. The ministry’s head of press unit, Oyetomi Olujimi, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. According to the statement, the event that was held at the Minister’s Board Room on the 11th Floor of NNPC Towers, Abuja, was attended by the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Folashade Yemi Esan, the Directors, the Heads Agencies of the Ministry, the Special Advisers and Technical Assistants of the Honourable Minister and a few others. One of the highlights of the valedictory event was a short documentary showcasing the 7 Big Wins which encompasses the thrust of Dr. Kachikwu’s administration of the Oil and Gas sector of the Nigerian economy. The Minister of State paid glowing tribute to President Muhammadu Buhari from whom he said he learnt the dignity of silence and trust in the capacity of others. He expressed gratitude for the vibrancy and support he got from the Permanent Secretary, the Heads of Agencies, the Directors of the Ministry, his Advisers and Assistants and even his support staff – driver, cooks, security staff for their loyal services, pledging that in or out of Government, he will always be around as a supportive voice and advocate for the best way to go in the Oil and Gas sector. The Minister encouraged the Heads of Agencies to find ways of supporting the Directors of the Ministry and the Permanent Secretary as this is his panacea for productivity and progress of the sector, declaring that there is still lots of works to do to grow the sector. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu attributed most of the gains of his administration of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources to the 7 Big Wins which he said led to policies and transparency in the sector, no queues at fuel stations, consultations and peace in the Niger Delta with attendant increases in the barrels of oil produced for the international market, bringing respect to Nigeria’s position in OPEC and the World’s Oil and Gas sector and more. A good number of speakers at the event which includes Heads of Agencies and Directors and aides to the Minister corroborated the achievements of Dr. Ibe Kachikwu with facts and figures. The Director, Oil Services in the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Engineer Kamoru Busari pointed out that the expertise of Kachikwu supported by the Technical Advisers and Assistants he brought to the Ministry revolutionized the work delivery of the regular staff of the Ministry. The Permanent Secretary, Yemi Esan stated emphatically that Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu came to the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and impacted not only policies and programmes but persons and work processes and will be missed even for the temporary exit from the Ministry.