A group, Moremi Vanguard hosted community leaders and top political leaders in Alimosho to a Ramadan lecture and Iftar (breaking of fast). The event coincided with the 45th birthday of Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, popularly called Moremi. The event was held on the foyer of Akinbile-Yussuf’s residence at the Command area of Agbado/Oke-Odo Local Council Development Area of Alimosho. The Chief Imam of Ipaja Central Mosque, Alhaji Mumin Al-Imran, urged political leaders to take the wellbeing of the people as priority. The cleric also admonished people to always wish political officers well, noting that scathing remarks about leaders have unpleasant consequences on such people. Alhaji Imran said: ‘’Nation building is a collective assignment and we citizens are also expected to play our part to make the country a better place for all. Therefore, I want to urge people, especially Muslims to shun the idea of cursing or wishing political leaders evil because such thought or action because nemesis awaits those who nurse thoughts like that for leaders. “Similarly, I want to also admonish politicians running various offices in the country, to be above board in their conduct while in office because everyone will give an account of stewardship to Allah, the supreme judge of mankind.’’ Mrs Akinbile-Yussuf thanked guests, promising that she would continue to be of service to her constituent and mankind in particular. ‘’My life has been that of service to people and I will continue to offer myself as a servant-leader to uplift the people of my constituency and mankind in general. ‘’I enjoin Muslim faithful to imbibe the exemplary virtues inherent in the month of Ramadan to uplift their lives and that of others, especially the needy in our society.’’ The event was also witnessed by the Olojota of Ojota, Oba Olawale Cole; Vice Chairman of Agbado/Oke Odo LCDA, David Famuyiwa and former chairman of APC in the council area, Segun Sodiya.