The Chinese Youths Association (CYA) has built and handed over, a 500-seater multipurpose hall at the Lagos State Model College (LSMC), Ojo. It was built in honour of Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Olasoji Akinbayo, an old boy of the school. Akinbayo turned down the group’s personal appreciation for his exceptional policing and anti-corruption stance. The Nation learnt that Akinbayo, the Area ‘D’ commander in Mushin, turned down N20million gratification and declined a N5million bribe in another case. Inaugurating the hall at the weekend, Deputy Governor Adiat Adebule praised Akinbayo for his selflessness, noting that another person would have accepted the gift. Adebule, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Mrs. Olatokunboh Adeleye, said the donation was in tandem with the government’s drive to reposition education and bequeath decent environment to the pupils. The gesture, she said, would improve the bilateral relations between Lagos State and China, noting that Chinese were executing projects across the state. The association’s Secretary, Jack Zhou, said they found the police officer worthy of the honour because of his exemplary conduct. Akinbayo said his first encounter with the Chinese was as the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in Ikeja when he arrested and detained some young Chinese for drunk-driving. “I let those who were not drunk to go, but those who were drunk; I kept them behind the counter till the following morning, to protect them. “Since then, they started making findings about me. They said they were surprised I didn’t collect anything from them and released their brothers when they were sober. “So, when they came to my office last year that they would like to do something for me to appreciate me, I told them I preferred they did a project at the college where I graduated in 1987. We came and met the Head Teacher, Mrs. Olufumilayo Adenekan, who directed us to the ministry and today, the project is delivered. “I am happy about this hall because before now, pupils had their functions in the open. The school used to rent canopies to shield them from the rain and sun.”