Nigeria’s female wrestler Mercy Genesis is expecting to face strong oppositions at the forth coming Governor Dickson National Wrestling Classics billed to hold between 15th and 30th June, 2019 in Yenegoa, Bayelsa State. In a chat with NationSport, the three-time national champion said she has intensified her training since the announcement of the 3rd edition of the championship scheduled to hold at the Indoor Sports Hall of the newly-refurbished Samson Siasia Sports Stadium in Yenagoa The championship will also be used to select athletes that will represent Nigeria at the 12th All-Africa games in Morocco and the 2019 World Wrestling Championships in Kazakhstan in September and Bayelsa-born athlete admits that it will not be an easy one. The three-time African champion, who is now ranked World No. 11 in the Women’s Wrestling 50kg by the United World Wrestling (UWW) following her exploits at the 2019 African Wrestling Championships held in Hammamet, Tunisia, where she won a gold medal. “My preparation is going smoothly and we are ready for the championship. Now I can’t say who will be my opponents by I am expecting a strong opponents because of what is at stake. Every wrestler wants to go to All Africa Games and the World Championship and so it will not be an easy ride. “So I don’t know who I am going to be facing but let’s wait and see. Now I train twice in a day until when the state call us into camp,” Genesis told NationSport. Genesis, who began her wrestling career in 2012, went on to win numerous medals in the 48kg weight class including gold medals at 2015 All Africa Games in Brazzaville, Congo, silver medal at the 2016 African Wrestling Championships in Alexandria, Egypt. She represented Nigeria at the 2016 Africa/Oceania Olympic qualifiers in Algeria where she won gold and a place in the Rio 2016 Olympic Games in Brazil. Although she didn’t win a medal in the competition, she was among the final standing which comprised of 18 athletes from different countries. She was among the six Nigeria wrestlers that participated at the 2016 Spanish Grand Prix, in Madrid, Spain. She won gold medal at the 2017 Senior African Wrestling Championship held in Marrakech, Morocco and made her debut at the world stage at the 2017 World Wrestling Championships held in Paris, France. Genesis moved to the 50kg and competed at the second Governor Seriake Dickson National Wrestling Championships 2017 in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, where she won gold and was named the best female wrestler at the tournament. She began her 2018 with a gold medal at the African Wrestling Championships in Port Harcourt, Rivers State in February. She won a bronze medal at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia and ended the year with a gold medal 19th National Sports Festival held in Abuja in December.