A charity, Children Academic and Vocational Support Initiatives (CAVSI), has held vocational and academic training for pupils as part of activities to mark its 15th anniversary. It offered three winners of the secondary school category free Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) forms. With the theme, “Enterprise” and “the enterprising student” as sub-theme, the organisation sought to stimulate, encourage, inspire and support children in the less developed communities. About 80 pupils participated in the event. Besides the training, the participants went home with lots of freebies. “Alongside formal education, vocational training from early age prepares the young to be self-employable. CAVSI seeks to catch them young by empowering them with the needed skills and mindset that would prepare them for the future. The 15th Anniversary was one of such memorable interventions of our charity. Apart from the anniversary, which is an annual event, other activities geared towards stimulating and supporting children, especially those in the less developed communities, include volunteers training, orphanage visit, Easter career counseling seminar, long vacation daily activities, schools visits, vocational training empowerment and festival of inspiration,’’ he group said. The event had in attendance the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lug Multipurpose Concept, Mr Olalekan Perez, who spoke on “How to be focused and the challenges of distraction as an enterprising pupil”. He emphasised on the roles of parents in supporting their children in setting and achieving goals. Adebowale, a basket weaver and a musician, who had his sight impaired, taught the children and adults how to make lunch box, bags, laundry bags, among others. He performed an Ewi recitation on the importance of education and right to education. He is also one of our partners in the empowerment project. A banker, Alhaji Tunji Alao, spoke on skill development, creativity and productive mindset, encouraging the pupils to be proactive by asking questions and following them up. He urged parents to be part of the  their children’s upbringing. He said: “Our country has a need for skill development, creativity and productive mindset, how can the students be part of the players? One of the ways you can be creative and proactive is to ask questions; a child must have an intrinsic mind, which should be creative. Creativity creates new innovation and is a skill that should be developed because it is innate in our lives. The world we are, it is either you invent new things or you die off.” While Ololade Amunigun discussed about time management as an enterprising pupil, Gbemisola Bamgbade talked on the dangers of substance use, misuse and abuse. Pastor Mike Alonge emphasised that the pupils must take advantage of the benefits of the internet and other online tools to improve and excel in their academics. The second day was for questions and answers about the discussions, while the third day was for volunteers’ football competition. The last day was for presentation of awards to winners. For the senior secondary chool category, Onayemi Suliat, Okedara Olamitide and Saul Samuel took first, second and third positions. They were given free UTME forms; the junior secondary school category had Ojo Olamilekan,Ganiyu Mariam and Oyebonojo Moyosore as first, second and third prize winners with a star prize of mini-auto bike, Ottoman. The primary scholl category had Dogbonjaye Happiness, Olanrewaju Soburat and Adeleke Fisayo as first, second and third winners. They went away with school bags and, branded CAVSI note books, among others. The charity’s volunteers visited the Kings Heritage Missionary Home at Ijebu Ode with a brief stopover at Eruobodo House, a home for children with special needs.