Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has declared he was not on board the Boeing 777-300 aircraft Ethiopian flight that encountered bad weather during landing at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport on Wednesday. Obasanjo was widely reported to have been among the 393 passengers on the flight from Adiss-Ababa, capital of Ethiopia. But the former President said he didn’t travel, let alone board the flight. Obasanjo made the clarification through his spokesperson, Kehinde Akinyemi. Akinyemi said Obasanjo had been in his home in Abeokuta, Ogun State and the former president never traveled. A news agency had reported Obasanjo was returning from a stakeholders’ dialogue on Continental Trade and Strengthening Implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) which ended on Tuesday in Addis Ababa, when the incident happened. Ethiopian Airlines clarified that its Boeing 777-300 aircraft which took off in Addis Ababa on its way to Lagos encountered bad weather during landing and the airport. It was Ethiopian Flight (ET 901/29 MAY). According to its General Manager Nigeria, Firihiewot Mekonnen , the aircraft upon experiencing bad weather had to embark on a go – round the airport for better and smooth landing, which she said was in line with flight safety procedure. She said: “On a second attempt, the aircraft made safe and normal landing. This was according to safety standards. Pilots are encouraged to make similar go – round in such cases. However, some media incorrectly reported this standard safety precautionary go – round. “ The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) also confirmed the incident involving Ethiopian Airlines. In a statement, its spokesperson, Henrietta Yakubu said : ” An Ethiopian Airline flight numbered ET 901 flying from Addis Ababa to Lagos today escaped a mishap and landed safely at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. “The flight, which tried to land at about 1157hours had earlier mis-approached due to bad weather and immediately went up to position properly for landing. The aircraft landed safely at exactly 1213hours and parked at gate E63.” “The Ethiopian flight had departed Lagos for Addis Ababa at 1351hours.” 