For students of the Benson Idahosa University, celebrating Nigeria’s rich cultural heritage is not only necessary, but a priority. In the last 14 years that the university management has been organising the Cultural Day carnival, no two editions had ever been the same. Characterised by colour, glamour and enthusiasm, the 2019 Cultural Day featured dance and drama. As usual, participants were creatively costumed in admirable regalias, which reflected the rich Nigerian culture. It was a beautiful sight to behold as students across many ethnic groups trooped out to showcase the beauty of the Nigerian culture. The celebration, which held in the school‘s main auditorium, also featured a beauty pageant. Declaring the event open, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Sam Guobadia, described the event as a remarkable one, saying the essence of the programme was to promote peace among students and help them identify with their culture. Guobodia, who was represented by the Dean, School of Post-graduate Studies, Prof Bamidele Sanni, hailed the students for coming together to celebrate their cultures. At the event, Nollywood actor Charles Inojie urged the participants not to forget their culture wherever and in whatever they do. This, he said, would help them connect to their roots. He praised the management for keeping the event going. Inoje noted that he felt a sense of belonging during the event. He said: “I feel as if I were in my village being in the midst of my people. It connects me to my root and makes me feel a sense of belonging.” Inoje also praised the students for coming together to promote their culture. He said such event would make them to be conscious of their roots and heritage He said the Nigerian cultural heritage would be more elevated if students showed interest in their culture and learnt about others across the country. The highlight of the event was the performances by students of traditional dances of some ethnic groups. The audience hailed the revelers as they performed their traditional dance steps to entertain guests. The Ijaws emerged winners of the carnival after they put up a sterling performance, which held the crowd spellbound.