The Martha Moses F. Ekpo and Moses Ekpo Jr Memorial Foundation targeting financial literacy training and grassroots empowerment will be launched by Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel in Uyo. The event, slated for May 31, will hold alongside the launch of Trials & Triumphs A Biography on Moses F. Ekpo, Deputy Governor, Akwa Ibom State. The event will hold at the Ibom Resort in Uyo. It will celebrate the life and times of Moses F. Ekpo an illustrious icon and true son of the state. The First Lady of Akwa Ibom State, Mrs. Martha Emmanuel, will unveil the  book, written by veteran journalist and author, Uko Okopide. Director-General of the Nigerian Copyright Commission, John Asein, will give the keynote address with the title, Book as a Factor in National Development – A Biographical Perspective. The event will be chaired by Chief Pascal Dozie, Chairman of MTN Nigeria, while the book will be presented by Mr. Udom Inoyo, Executive Vice Chairman of ExxonMobil and Mr. Ray Ekpu, Chief Executive Officer of May Five Limited, will review the book. The memorial foundation was set up by Deputy Governor, Moses F. Ekpo as a vehicle for implementation and funding of projects that would improve the education, health and welfare of Nigerians. The foundation will achieve its objectives by funding and implementing programmes across Nigeria that would improve access to quality education and healthcare; strengthen the capacity of education and health professionals whilst also empowering vulnerable people to achieving sustainable livelihoods. In the area of education, the Martha and Moses Jr, Ekpo Foundation will have as its main focus, funding and implementation of programmes that would prepare Nigerians to be able to thrive in the global economy. The funding will be through provision of bursaries to students studying strategic and innovation courses, as well as funding and implementation of programmes that encourage digital, entrepreneurial and financial literacy in teachers and students. The Martha and Moses Jr, Ekpo Foundation will assist in tackling the problem of chronic poverty among Nigerians by providing programmes that would improve the livelihood of those in the lower rung of the ladder, including provision of financial literacy training to a cross section of Nigerians. The foundation’s welfare programme also promises to focus on improving the lives of vulnerable populations like widows, widowers, disabled persons and children.