Usmanu Danfodiyo Students’ Union has elected new set of leaders that will paddle the affairs of the union for the next one year. The election was conducted by the electoral committee constituted by the Student Affairs Division. The exercise was also monitored by UDUS campus journalists, as well as security personnel. After a keenly contested election, Barade Faruku, a 400-Level Law student emerged the SU winner polling 3,595 votes to defeat his opponent Abubakar Abubakar Funtua who scored 2,314. Other executives elect are: Ahmad Halimah Sadiya (vice-president 1); Shafiu Ibrahim Abubakar (vice-president 2); Suleiman Abubakar (general secretary); Ahmad Sirajo Hamzah (assistant general secretary); Jabir Ahmad Muhammad (PRO1); Hassan Garba Kangiwa (PRO2) Abdulrasheed AbdulAzeez (sport director); Musa Abdullahi Alkali (food director); Abdullahi AbdulQahar (welfare director) and Suleiman Yahaya Muhammad (protocol director). The chairman electoral committee, Mallam Bashir Achida declared the winners for various offices and presented winners with certificates of returns. They have since been sworn-in at the university’s multipurpose hall. Achida described the exercise as transparent and credible poll:  “As you all can see, the election has been peaceful and transparent. Winners have also emerged successfully. We allowed students to come around and seek clarification if there is any ambiguity.” Achida thanked the management for contributing to democracy in Nigeria and demonstrating same through SU election. “We have made our own contribution and we believe that students can also learn that things can be done in this country transparently and without any iota of doubt to the overall success of the system,” Achida said. He however reinstated the commitment of the management in ensuring that elections across board are free and fair. “We are going to continue to improve on this. We are going to ensure that the system is free and credible. As an academic setting, if we can’t hold a credible election, that means we are not laying a good example.” The vice-chancellor Prof Abdullahi Abdul Zuru praised the electoral committee and the entire students of the university for ensuring peaceful atmosphere. “I thank the electoral committee and the entire students of this university. We have shown to the world that we are a peaceful institution,” Zuru said, urging all students to be good representatives of UDUS. “Leadership is not an easy responsibility but many students have done it well and we believe that you will also do better than them” he said.