In a bid to educate people on legal matters, Steven Adesomoye, a teacher, film director and producer, has created a new television programme, ‘Panpe Ofin’, which he said is to enable people know their fundamental human rights and stave off ignorance of the law. “It’s going to be a small programme,” said the lecturer in the department of mass communication, Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu. “We will move from Yoruba to pidgin then we can now start talking about enlarging it but the plan is to have a website where we will have a pool of lawyers that will be ready to take up cases for poor people. They don’t have to suffer and die in silence. The first phase is to start the ‘Panpe Ofin’; let people know their rights and how to pursue all these matters legally.” While Adesomoye admitted he is bearing all the expense of the production, he said he is not bothered. On his strategy, he said he employed the use of his students. “In shooting Panpe Ofin, from the last person to the director were my students,” he said. “I involve my students 100 per cent. Being an educator, I want to educate in all ramification. “At the beginning, I am not expecting money. As a film teacher I have my equipment, then I have built a studio then what I have done is to use my students in handling the cameras, handling editing. That does not mean that I am not going to pay. I will pay for graphics, I will pay editors… It is my own contribution to the society. If eventually money comes, fantastic, if it doesn’t come, no problem. The most important thing is to keep pushing. It will not take me anything to spend half a million from my salary a year to put the programme on air. And in the cause of doing it, if I get people that are willing to be part of this, fantastic. I want to see people change, it is very important to me.” Adesomoye who has created projects such as ‘Abinibi’, ‘Ajurawalo’, ‘Adehun’, ‘Ise ori ran mi’, ‘Aya rere’, ‘Akomalede’ and ‘Aya rere lodede oko’ is positive about Nollywood, especially in the area of collaborations. “I see Nollywood having more collaboration from across the globe,” he said. “I see Nollywood treating more issue based and advocacy films in the next five years. I see Nollywood creating more empowerment and adding more to our GDP in another five years. I see Nollywood creating more film tourism for Nigeria, I see a Nollywood that would have purged itself and become a force to reckon with not only in terms of quantity but in quality, I see a Nollywood that is going to be treating out-of-this-world films that you have never seen before because we have stories that we haven’t told yet.”