For everything in the life of man, there is a climax as well as an anti-climax. The climax of Ramadan is Laylatul Qadr (the night of power). That is the night in which the very first revelation of the Qur’an was made to Prophet Muhammad (SAW). It is also the night in which the contents of that Holy Book are reconfirmed annually. Laylatul Qadr is the meeting point between the earth and the heaven. It is the rare opportunity, which the Almighty Allah offers the Muslim Ummah to reshape their destiny and rekindle their spiritual fortune. The anti-climax of Ramadan begins with the disbursement of Zakatul Fitr and ends with Eidul Fitr. The former (Zakatul Fitr) is a part and parcel of Ramadan. It is made compulsory by Prophetic tradition. The latter is the festivity with which the Muslim Ummah expresses gratitude to the Almighty Allah for taking them successfully through another month of blessing, forgiveness and liberation. Eidul Fitr is essentially a Nafilah (supererogatory prayer) consisting of two Rakats and a sermon. The Rakats are observed congregationally a couple of hours after Salatul Subh. They are followed by the sermon. To observe Eidul Fitr Rakats, a Muslim is expected to wear a festive and not a mourning mood. He should be gay in appearance without necessarily being extravagant. He should take normal bath, perform ablution and wear a neat but not necessarily a new dress. On his way to the praying ground, he should put his Lord in mind by chanting alone or in congregation any of the following: And, on getting to the praying ground, everybody should just sit down chanting any of the above. There is no observance of any Nafilat on individual basis because Eidul Fitr itself is Nafilat. The Imam leads the congregation in observing the two Rakats. He then follows that up with a relevant sermon preferably in a language understandable to the congregation. No private Nafilat should be observed before the commencement of Eidul Fitr prayer. It is advisable to wait after the SALAT and listen to the sermon which is more important than the Eid prayer itself. Those who missed the prayer do not need to observe it thereafter. Listening to the sermon is enough for them. After leaving the prayer ground, they should remember that they are not supposed to go back into the world of iniquities having been liberated from it. Fasting on Eid day is forbidden. Festivities are better extended to relatives and neighbours irrespective of their religions. EID MUBARAK! 