A non-governmental Organisation  (NGO), Development Dynamics, is partnering Rotary Club to boost  dissemination of provitamin A maize planting seedto farmers to improve food security. Its Executive Director, Dr. Jude Ohanele, said his organisation was  seeking ways to improve the quality of life in rural areas. He said his organisation was using the small-scale agriculture model to alleviate hunger and fight poverty. Ohanele said the organisation embarked on the training of women farmers at Owalla Uratta, Owerri North Local Government Area of  Imo State. At the training, Ohanele said,  the organisation distributed free hybrid vitamin A maize seeds, sponsored by Rotary Club of Aladinma, Owerri to the farmers. He said the organisation trained  women farmers at Umuoma Nekede, Owerri West Local Government of Imo State. Similary,  the farmers also benefited from the distribution of free hybrid vitamin A maize seeds. Other trainings included one on good agronomic practices and distribution of free  hybrid vitamin A maize seeds at Umuowa, Orlu Local Government Area. He said, however, that the free seeds were sponsored by Chief Duru, a philanthropist. He said  using provitamin A maize   to tackle vitamin A deficiency is an excellent option because of  its availability and accessibility in most rural communities. According to him,biofortification of maize aims to amplify these efforts, taking vitamin A to people who may not be able to afford the cost of fortified foods. He said his organisation is working with HarvestPlus to  distribute  more nutritious crops that will enhance food security According to him, the rural households deserve better nutrition and the consumption of more nutritious crops to reduce malnutrition globally. He called on farmers to cultivate the varieties and consume them for better health and nutrition. He encouraged farmers to give seeds to their neighbours  during harvests to ensure rapid dissemination of planting materials. The farmers were trained on sustainable practices, accountability, sharing, passing on training, and self-reliance. 