The Ikhwatul-Islam Society of Nigeria has immortalised its late founder with a memorial lecture tagged: “Ismail Sumbo Ileyemi Memorial Ramadan Lecture.” The late Ileyemi was a pioneer member of the then Islamic Fellowship of Nigeria (IFN) now renamed as Ikhwatul-Islam Society of Nigeria. Until his death, he was the serving President of the organisation. The maiden edition of the lecture titled: “Enduring Charity: An Islamic Prescription for Poverty Alleviation” was delivered by the Chief Imam of Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos, Sheikh Ismail Abdul Quadri. The President of the Society, Alhaji Abdul Waheed Olalere, described Ileyemi as a distinguished personality, who was passionate about the propagation of Islam. He said: “He sacrificed a lot for Islam to ensure that the work of Islam continues to advance. His contributions to our project development were commendable. It’s rather unfortunate that he died before the completion of the project. But, before his demise, he was at the forefront of financing different projects of the society including the ongoing mosque building.” The organisation, Olalere said, decided to immortalise him because of his immense contributions to the society and Islam, adding that the lecture would continue to hold in his name. “He was a very humble person, who has respect for both the young and the elder. He was very accommodating. He never looked down on anybody. He always yielded to our calls anytime we needed him. He used to relate with everybody with love.  We love him and he also loved us, too,” he said. The late Ileyemi’s widow, Mrs Modupe Ileyemi, said her husband stood firm for whatever he believed. Mrs Ileyemi, who is the Director of Public Affairs in the Lagos State Ministry of Waterfront Infrastructure Development, said: “When he became the President, he dedicated full commitment to Islam. He was highly steadfast. He was always giving. He used to relate with everybody well. He supported everything Islam . I’m glad that the association is doing this for him. it shows that they appreciated his gesture.”