No fewer than 2,000 medical workers migrate to developed countries annually, The Nigerian Medical Association has declared. Its President, Dr Francis Adedayo Faduyile stated this in Abakaliki during the opening ceremony of the Annual General Conference/Delegates meeting of the Association in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. He said this necessitated the theme of the meeting which is ‘Skill Repatriation in the Health Sector: Turning Nigeria’s brain drain to brain gain’. “We believe that this ugly situation can be turned to an advantage hence the need to bring this to the front burner for discussion and proffer a way out to the country’s advantage,” he stated. Faduyile also said that politicians in the country do not seem to be worried by the trend because they do not to have the necessary statistics and facts on the matter. “Without intent at generating further controversy on the matters arising from the unfortunate remark by a senior cabinet member of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who incidentally or coincidentally doubles as a senior member of the Medical Profession it is our firm believe that this gathering would generate further affirmatory statistics and facts that possibly would be enough in convincing those policy makers at critical MDAs of government at all levels including the Federal Ministry of labour and productivity who perhaps are yet to come to reality with the scientifically unambiguous deleterious aftermath of the worsening disparity between the health workforce in general and the population they are serving vis-à-vis the alarming rate of the emigration of these health/medical professionals on helath outcomes as reflected by the various morbidity and mortality data. Then, they can join us in the clarion call for action and be committed to instituting necessary actions,” Faduyile stressed. Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, also expressed worries at the increasing rate of brain drain in the country’s medical sector. Represented by the Chief Medical Director of Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki, Dr Emeka Onwe, the Minister said the federal government is working hard to end the mass exodus of Medical workers from the country. He said: “I am not particularly happy with the latest trend of doctors leaving the country to other lands for greener pastures. We shall continue to ensure the welfare of the health workforce is improved. Our effort at centralising the internship posting of newly graduated doctors had received the support of FEC and would be rolled out within the year. Prof Adewale said the FG has instituted a diaspora programme which is geared towards engaging doctors who have acquired latest skills and knowledge that will help transform the health sector. “The ministry will continue to improve on these activities to encourage the diasporans to make increased contribution to our healthcare delivery”. The Minister also expressed concerns over inability of several state governments’ inability to recruit and keep medical doctors including specialists in their secondary and tertiary care hospitals. “In many cases most local governments’ health facilities do not have a doctor. These are unrelated to poor welfare and remuneration package at various levels amongst other factors”.