The Ahmed Lawan campaign organization for Senate Presidency has distanced itself from alleged use of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) operatives to harass and intimidate senators and top officials of the National Assembly over election of Senate President. The allegation may not be unconnected with the invitation and interrogation of the Clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, by the anti-graft agency last Tuesday. Omolori was said to have been interrogated about financial dealings in the National Assembly and the voting method for the election of the presiding officer of the National Assembly. Spokesman of Ahmad Lawan Campaign Organisation, Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, who spoke on the issue, said that they have no hand whatsoever in the allegation that EFCC is being used to harass senators to change the rule for election of presiding officers. Abdullahi said that there was no need to harass anybody especially when Lawan’s contact and mobilisation committee is steadily reaching out to senators-elect. He added that they are solidly on the ground and working round the clock to deliver their candidate on the day of inauguration. Abdullahi who said that their preoccupation is to deliver Lawan on the day of inauguration insisted that allegation of use of EFCC to harass senators is baseless and unfounded. He said, “This is news to me. I am just hearing that officials of the National Assembly were invited by the EFCC. “But what I can tell is that we are not aware and we have no hand in what you are alleging that we are using EFCC to harass them to change the rules for us or to harass our colleagues. “We have been working and our contact and mobilisation committee has reached out to our colleagues. We are taking our campaign and we are not taking our chances likely. “We have no reason to harass anyone or do anything to scuttle the inauguration. We are solidly on ground and working round the clock to deliver our candidate on the day of inauguration. This is our preoccupation and whatever you have been told is not true. “We are selling Lawan’s strong areas to our colleagues which integrity, intelligence and capability. We are also selling our agenda to our colleagues to buy into what we intend to do for for the 9th Senate. “I know that I am part of the outgoing Senate. To be frank, there were so many things we didn’t do right. So, our plan is to ensure that Lawan’s presidency improves on that. These are the issues. “With what we have done, on that day of inauguration, by the grace of God, we shall carry the day and Lawan will emerge as President of the 9th Senate. No cause for alarm my brother. We are marching forward,”