Internationally known for his unforgettable role as Bola Abayomi in ‘Jacob’s Cross’, Fabian Adeoye Lojede is an actor, film producer and director. Based in South Africa, Fabian who initially worked as a copywriter in Lagos, featured in the first Pan African drama series, ‘Jacobs’ Cross in 2007 and played a lead role till the end of the show in 2012. He has since produced his own feature films, including co-producing ‘Comatose’, a dramatic afro-futurism film which explores an African perspective on euthanasia. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, he shares his beginning, projects and what his vision for African films. Excerpts WHAT influenced your move to the big screen? The right story came my way. I’d always wanted to move to the big screen, the opportunities that came just didn’t seem right, so I did mostly TV commercials and concentrated on my copywriting, voice over work and producing. Coming back home to complete your secondary and tertiary education, how easy was it for you to adapt to the Nigerian system, any major culture shock? There was a culture shock even though I was born in Nigeria. The first thing that hit me as a five-year-old in the UK was seeing so many white faces and just a few black faces. I was a Mushin boy as you can imagine there weren’t too many white people taking afternoon strolls in the neighbourhood. Then coming back home the first thing that hit me again was seeing so many black faces and not a white face in sight per se. But that only hits you for a day or two. School wise was the corporate punishment, you could take on teachers in the UK, well I use to anyway, the worst you get is in Lines and detention. I learnt the hard way that back home teachers could beat the shit out of you. By the time I got to Uni there was to culture to be shocked at. Was the choice to study psychology borne out of passion or necessity? My father used to get a lot of Rosicrucian digest magazines when I was younger, and that’s when I discovered the world of Psychology. Though I must say I was scared that if I didn’t make it as a creative I could always do my PHD in clinical psychology and become a shrink. As a copywriter, what is the most important tool of storytelling? Insight- provided you know how to tell stories that is. Would you say that ‘Jacob’s Cross’ was the turning point in your career? For sure Can you recall your reaction when you landed the role in ‘Jacob’s Cross’? Not really. I was still a bit weary as to if it would end being another negative portrayal of Nigeria, which had lead me to walk away from some jobs in SA in the past. But it ended up being one of the most pleasant long running creative experiences I’ve ever had. What sacrifices did you make playing the recurring role? My business suffered quite a bit, TV series is like a 9 to 5, it’s time and commitment You wear so many creative hats, which gives you utmost satisfaction? Writer, writing will always be my first love, the process of generating and creating an idea that eventually forms into a story is so fulfilling. How involved are you in the South African film industry? As involved as one can be, both as a producer and production company owner with my business partner Mickey Dube. If you are to make a comparison between Nollywood and South African film industry, what would it be? Hmmmm, I would say, SA is developed in terms of international best practices like film finance, bonding, soft investment, co-production opportunities for filmmakers, etc while Nollywood is far more refined in terms of commercialisation of local film content. I wouldn’t really say South Africa has a film industry in the local sense like Nigeria. In terms of longevity, I would say that Nigeria is more promising as you can’t really build an industry on soft money and grants. If the Nigerian film industry could get just a fraction of the kind of institutional support that the SA film industry gets, I believe we would most likely have one of the highest return per dollar in the creative industry anywhere in the world. This is not just about providing funds, it is the whole facet of filmmaking, from helping institutions to develop training for filmmakers, particularly the technical and financing side. So we can have highly trained personnel that can attract international films to be shot in Nigeria even if the film is not about Nigeria or set in Nigeria. Of the three major film industries in the world, US, India and Nigeria, Nigeria is the only one that doesn’t have a clearly defined tax or financial incentive backed by the government. Do you think Nollywood represents the African film industry wholly? Wholly, no. Africa is going through so many things and I’m not sure any country can bear the burden of the total representation of that. Creatively, I think the only creative artiste to have taken that responsibility and succeeded was the great Fela. You could use his music from the 70s all the way to ‘beast of no nation’ to chronicles what was going on across the world and how it affected Africa.  Film distribution is a major challenge in the industry today, due to piracy. What new channels can filmmakers explore? No doubt online and VOD platforms are changing the game. I am old school though as I love the cinema experience. Is there really a single Africa story? If yes, what is it? There can never be a single story for Africa. The beauty of Africa is its diversity. The only single story that should exist is the authenticity of any story we tell. Do you think streaming platforms like Netflix is the future of films? For the independent film maker, yes. Not sure about the future of film. There is something about sitting in a huge dark room, with surround sound and a huge screen that I think a sofa and a plasma screen can never replicate. But Netflix is a saviour for storytellers. The way the industry was structured before them would have killed new voices for sure. Are you impressed by the kind of Nollywood films produced today? Definitely I think we have come a long way. What kind of stories do you think Africa need to tell? Every story. What difficult choices have you made in your career? Walking away from more jobs then I take. Saying no in SA because of some ignorant line they want me to say here and there. The question has always been; do I take it all or keep to only what I want to do. At times you just want to act no matter what, so there is always that urge to compromise. How friendly is the South African business terrain? (Laughs) It’s tough, like anyway in Africa, Africa is harsher towards Africans. But the government must be commended for at least having programmes aimed at boosting business opportunities for their citizens. China is doing the same thing with clear-cut goals in all areas to boost growth. Take their film industry, there is a quota on foreign films that are released there to help boost the commercial consumption of local films. The west will tell you this is protectionism and anti-free market rules and they will get African guys to back it up for them. But when Rwanda says no more imports of second-hand clothes, to help build their local free market of home-made clothes, the west threatens sanctions and that is not protectionism to them. Can you explain the synergy that has kept you and your wife in business together without conflict? She’s always right. Do you speak Yoruba fluently? Fluently, but not fluently enough for my liking I wish I could speak Egba. But I’m a product of the kind of colonial thinking we need to weed out. Where schools would punish kids for speaking their own language. Any phobia? Heights. Love my feet on solid ground. None of that mountain climbing, skydiving ‘shit’. Remember that video clip of that army guy that didn’t want to jump out during training, that’s me right there.