The Ogoni people have expressed worry over the Federal Government’s willingness to carry out the clean-up exercise in Ogoniland as recommended by the United Nations Environmental Protection (UNEP). UNEP in its report had recommended that a Centre of Excellence for Environmental Restoration be established in  Ogoniland. This, it said, would promote learning in other areas impacted by oil contamination in the Niger Delta.According to UNEP, offering  a  range  of  activities  and  services,  the  centre could run training courses in environmental monitoring and  restoration  and  ultimately  become  a  model for environmental restoration, attracting international attention. It also recommended that the  Ogoni  community  should  take  full  advantage of the employment, skills development and other opportunities that will be created by  the  clean-up  operation  which  is  aimed  at  improving  their  living  conditions  and  livelihoods. The Media and Public Affairs Adviser of the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), Bariara Kpalap, said the entire clean up exercise is being politicised. According to him, the Ogoni people are not yet certain the government meant to carry out the exercise as recommended by UNEP. He said: “Nothing is happening. The Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) claims to have awarded contracts to some contractors and also given them time to commence work but as I speak with you nothing absolutely has been done.” He told The Nation on  telephone that measures such as provision of potable water, assessing the health issues of the people, building of health centres and centre of excellence, among others, as recommended by the UNEP report are yet to be seen. The powers that be are just using it to gain their political course. He confirmed that some contractors had been given site, but nobody is on any site. “The first step that should be taken is addressing the issue of water, determining the health states of the people and building of health centres, have not taken off till this moment. “I’m telling you that in my community (Kegbara Dere), there’s a site that would have been cleaned in this very contract that has been awarded, with other communities such as  (Gokana), nobody is anywhere doing anything. Nothing is happening. I’m telling you as a matter of fact, I can say it anywhere my community would have been one among those the clean-up would have taken place. “MOSOP has been campaigning that this should be done. It’s now HYPREP that’s not telling us the truth. Some money has been given for this and on the basis of that they have awarded contracts to some people (contractors), so if those things have happened why are the people not working?”, he asked. The Ogoni people, he said, want the clean-up exercise to take off properly. “What we want is what’s practical, if it is the issue of water, give us water, you have the money to give us water, if its building integrated centre, build it. “The ground breaking ceremony was done some years back. You have now gotten some money, and we are not saying that you should invest all the money here, but something has to happen that will create confidence in the people that at the end of the day the environment will be restored, and our own means of livelihood will be restored. Currently, there is nothing like that, therefore, many people believe the entire project is just a rip-off, he added.