Last year, Delta State Governor Godwin Obaseki promised pensioners that it would be the last time they would be wearing black attires to May Day rallies. Apart from wearing black attires, the pensioners, mostly those that retired from the local governments, engaged in street protests. It was a pitiable sight to see the pensioners sitting along major streets protesting their unpaid gratuities. Some of them were owed pension arrears spanning 7-42 months. Addressing pensioners during last year’s May Day rally, Obaseki said: ”I am not happy that some people are wearing black. I promise you will not wear black next year. “My predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole had an option to pay only those that retired in his time but he went back to start paying pension from 1997. I made a promise and I will keep my promise. “We stand by the truth and we are not afraid particularly by those who destroyed this state. Stop taking money from the opposition to hurt yourself. Our commitment is to make our retirees comfortable. Currently, the Edo pensioners are happy. They displayed their joy during this year’s May Day rally when they wore white attires to the venue. Unlike before, when the pensioners would refuse to engage in marching, they filed out to perform the march past. The journey to the present situation in which pensioners are happy began during the administration of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole when fraud was uncovered in pension administration. The fraud was such that some pensioners were unable to get their gratuities; others had two vouchers in their names. The fraud resulted in the retirement of the then State Head of Service, Mr. Jerry Obazele and Permanent Secretary, Information and Communications Technology Agency, Mr. Dan Aigbavboa while other members of the State Pensions Board were asked to report to the State Civil Service Commission for proper investigation and disciplinary action in accordance with the Civil Service Rules. Checks by Niger Delta Report showed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration inherited unpaid gratuities arising from workers dismissed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government and military administration. All Permanent Secretaries sacked in 1999 and even some laid off during military administration of Baba Nyam were not paid gratuities. It was gathered that plans were to clear the pension arrears from the backlogs instead of doing selective payment based on the ability to bribe pension administrators. Explaining how the fraud was uncovered, Oshiomhole said he discovered a huge gap between what the Head of Service had told him the state owed and what is now generated to pay. He said the Pensions Board along with some officers in the Information and Communication Technology Agency generated three versions of what the pension liabilities are, adding that cases were established in which one person has two vouchers, same date of birth, same first name, same surname, everything the same and two original vouchers for one pensioner. Following the uncovered fraud, the Pensions Board was scrapped and a Bureau was to be created. Governor Obaseki, however, followed the steps of his predecessor and set up an Ad-Hoc Committee on Pension Management headed by Mr. Saylor Juwobor, to supervise modalities for clearing pension arrears accumulated and also to ensure migration of public servants to the Contributory Pension Scheme. Speaking at the inauguration of the committee, Obaseki said: “We cannot solve all the problems of pensioners in one day. This problem accumulated for a long time. As a government, we are committed to resolving all pension-related problems. “Edo State Government employees who have more than five years to retirement have joined the contributory pension scheme. The fund for the payment of their pension is in a special account usually with their pension fund administrators. We have also appointed pension fund administrators and custodians who will hold those funds.” To show commitment to his promise, Obaseki renovated the building housing Ethiope Publishing at the Kings Square and converted it to the office of the State Pension Bureau. This is to make pensioners have easy access to the office. A systematic way adopted to clear backlog of pension arrears was to classify the pensioners into batches and ensured that the backlog was cleared methodologically after due confirmation. The sum of N200 million was set aside monthly to defray the pension arrears. Local government chairmen were also made to set aside money to clear pension arrears owed their retirees. Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Hon. Jimoh Ijegbai, who spoke to reporters, said the government has paid almost N5.5 billion to pensioners between last year and this year. He said: “This recent approval of N843, 324, 509.46 is a further demonstration of the commitment of the Obaseki-led administration to ensure that all arrears of pension are cleared. Last year, we were using N264 million to pay pensioners on a monthly basis. At the end of December, we paid pensioners to the tune of N3.168 billion. “If you add this to the N1.5 billion that we paid in June last year and this recent approval of N843, 324, 509.46 that we are paying today, it will amount to N5, 511,324, 509.46 as total amount paid to pensioners in one year.” State Chairman of Nigeria Union of Pensioners, Mr. Egbon Osamwonyi said all the promises made by the governor concerning pension payments have been fulfilled. He said they wore white cloths to the May Day rally to thank Governor Obaseki and tell the world that they are now happy. He said: “Our issues are being looked into. Many of our members have been paid and others have been captured. The governor is living up to his promise. He has done what many others could not do.” Obaseki said their expression shows he has been addressing pension payment as he promised them last year. He said he would clear all pension arrears when the IGR increases.