It is pleasant to hear that the Federal and some state governments are currently taking steps to promote non – motorised transportation and safe walking in Nigeria. It is a welcome development from economic, health and safety perspectives. It is, however, disheartening that despite all these talks in the government circles, so many of the obstacles created against non -motorised transportation and safe walking have not been addressed by the Federal and state governments.  Governments and the road construction companies have not been paying attention to the construction and maintenance of walkways for pedestrians and dedicated lanes for non-motorised vehicles like bicycles. Many pedestrian walkways have been blocked by governments. The example of this is the walkway under the bridge between Ojota and Ketu in Lagos State thereby exposing pedestrians to road hazards. Many drivers and riders of motorcycles and tricycles do drive on several pedestrian walkways while many walkways have been turned to car parks by drivers with impunity. Examples of this abound in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory( FCT). In the same vein, traders have either reduced or totally blocked many walkways in all the states and FCT. A trip to bus stops and market areas in the 36 states and FCT will affirm this situational report. One very worrisome case is Utako in FCT where food vendors do cook and fry food on pedestrian walkways. I learnt that the environmental officers who are to curb this hazardous practice do collect bribes from these violators of pedestrian right of way. Pedestrians are thereby forced to risk their lives to walk on vehicle lanes for fear of hot oils and coal fire wars ravaging the walkways. Some governments ignorantly planted wild trees near roads and walkways. The roots of these tree are already damaging many of the roads and pedestrian walkways. Wherever  there is no ample space to plant wild forest trees, flowers and trees without hazardous roots should be planted in such places to  prevent monumental damage to roads and road furniture. Instead of continually expanding or increasing road lanes, governments should pay an increased attention to the construction of dedicated vehicle lines like Lagos BRT lanes, dedicated lanes for non – motorised vehicles like bicycle and pedestrian walkways for safe walking. Governments should also begin to consider the construction of overhead bridges for vehicles while the pedestrian walkways will be under such overhead bridges. This will be a reverse of the current situation where pedestrian overhead bridges are constructed for active vulnerable pedestrians to climb while vehicle lanes are constructed under. Many pedestrians are not healthy or fit enough to use the pedestrian bridges and many are still being knocked down while trying to cross the roads. With the overhead bridge up and pedestrian walkway down, the safety of pedestrians will be much more assured. In a nutshell, it is very expedient for governments at all levels to renew and increase their focus and projects on pedestrian safety. In addition, it should be mandatory that there should be zebra crossing marking at the front of all educational institutions. All a public and private schools must employ and use traffic mayors to help school children cross the roads into and out of schools. Life has no duplicate and must therefore be protected at any cost.