NO fewer than 82 per cent of women in technology are subjected to one form of gender-based discrimination or the other, a new report compiled by Tek Experts has shown. The report showed that women, mostly in the professional industry, are treated with bias at their place of work and have to cope with less dignifying treatment. The report, titled: “Achieving Gender Balance: Views from Across the IT Industry” highlighted pay gap, lack of career growth opportunities, recruitment bias, general lack of inclusion and displacements among others, as some of the ways women suffer discrimination in the tech ecosystem. The report was completed by over 2,000 women globally, and was conducted in five countries where the information technology firms operate. The countries include Bulgaria, Nigeria, Costa Rica, United States (U.S.) and Vietnam. Over 300 Nigerian women were selected across the country for the survey. While 82 per cent of the respondents agreed to being discriminated against during their recruitment process for an IT organisation 31 per cent of women did not get same training opportunities as men and 76 per cent of women felt that policies promoting gender diversity in the tech space should be strongly implemented by the industry regulator to ensure compliance by private companies. Tek Experts Chief Executive Officer, Naama Saar, who spoke on the report, said: “At Tek Experts we are deeply passionate about inclusion and diversity in the workplace and we’ve worked tirelessly to ensure we are a reflection of what we preach. “We have implemented recruitment policies to achieve gender balance so we not only talk the talk; we also walk the walk. Our leadership team is almost entirely composed of women, who have proven through their amazing track record in the industry that they deserve a seat at the table. “Also, the IT industry’s customer base is diverse, so I think this is something that should be reflected within companies themselves. Women definitely have a place and a value in this industry and there is a lot of added value to be gained by having women on your team. Tek Experts is certainly proof of that.” Also speaking on the need to achieve gender balance in the workplace and in particular, the IT industry, Tek Experts Nigeria Country Manager, Ashim Egunjobi said: “There is an absolute need to encourage women to take on more IT roles. Diversity is very important in every sector more so the IT sector because we develop lifestyle products, software and services that are essential for everyday living. Having both male and female perspectives helps to holistically understand what the end user needs and presents more than one way to solve a problem. “This white paper not only identifies the issues we have with diversity and inclusion in the IT industry, but it also recommends practicable solutions to ensure major IT companies, including ourselves and our clients, sufficiently tackle this issue of diversity and ultimately engender better futures for women in IT everywhere.”