Despite Nigeria’s estimated $376 billion Gross Domestic Product (GDP), large population, huge market for microfinance banking and increasing number of micro-enterprises, over 60 per cent of its 191 million people still live below the poverty line. Poor access to financial services and credit by small businesses have been largely blamed for this development. The need to bridge the huge financing gap and reach the un-served market prompted the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to initiate a Microfinance Policy Framework aimed at taking banking and credit to the grassroots, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Microfinance banks have, for centuries, remained at the centre of economic growth through funding for Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Great economies grow on the strength and capabilities of their MSMEs. Likewise, development patterns across the globe have shown the roles played by MSMEs in resource mobilisation and the emergence of an industrial economy through the support of microfinance banking. Microfinance is the provision of financial services to the poor, who are traditionally not served by the conventional banks in order to alleviate poverty and promote savings culture at the grassroots. These financial services include credit, micro-leasing, money transfer and payment services. The smallness of loans advanced and savings collected, near absence of assets–based collateral and simplicity of operations are some of the attributes of microfinance banks. For instance, in Asia, Europe and North America, MSMEs play significant functions in the growth, development and industrialisation of their economies as they have been nurtured to achieve that objective. However, Nigeria remains an exception as MSMEs have largely performed below expectation as a result of poor access to credit, among other challenges. It was the need to reverse the trend that prompted the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to institute the Microfinance Policy Framework in December 2005. CBN Director, Other Financial Institutions Department, Mrs. Tokunbo Martians, explained that it was in response to the challenge of financing the real sector namely the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and rural finance. She said the objective behind the establishment of microfinance banks in Nigeria was to provide diversified, affordable and dependable financial services to the active poor, in a timely and competitive manner. The policy, she added, is to serve as guide for the activities of informal, unregulated institutions as well as new entrants in the sub-sector. The policy is aimed at ensuring that operators within the sub-sector are guided by a set of rules, principles and robust legal framework. Mrs. Martins, who spoke during the CBN workshop for financial journalists in Gombe State, explained that government’s initiative to meet the socio-economic complexities (needs) of the rural communities and reach rural areas, resulted in the establishment of community banks (now micro-finance banks). “Community banks emerged to meet the needs of the poor in order to increase their access to finance and improve their income generating activities. However, the failure of these community banks has resulted in the establishment of Microfinance banks in Nigeria. The government’s initiative to meet the socio-economic complexities (needs) of the rural communities and reach rural areas, resulted in the establishment of community banks (now microfi-nance banks). Community banks emerged to meet the needs of the poor in order to increase their access to finance and improve their income generating activities.  However, the failure of these community banks resulted in the establishment of Microfinance banks in Nigeria,” she stated. She noted that the regulator is doing a lot to de-risk the sub-sector by introducing collateral registry and credit bureau to enable them to lend to potential borrowers. In 2008 the CBN released the guidelines for the licensing, operation and regulation of credit bureaus, which were revised in 2013. The objective of the guidelines is to define the licensing, operational and regulatory requirements for a privately owned credit bureau under the CBN Act 2007, No. 7. Also, in 2015 the CBN created the National Collateral Registry (NCR), which enables easy access to credit by small businesses. A former President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Mazi Okechukwu Unegbu, who also spoke at the workshop,  said the existing Microfinance banks are trying to compete with conventional banks and the CBN personnel examine them as if they are examining conventional banks. “One of the main objectives of Microfinance banks in Nigeria is poverty alleviation. As presently constituted, the existing Microfi-nance banks have not reduced financial hardship nor have they helped to build income and poverty reduction. The financial inclusion gap in Nigeria is very wide and the restructure of its operations by adopting Microfinance policies rather than looking at Microfinance banks with the lens of conventional commercial banks. In setting up the National Microfi-nance Banks, the CBN is going to compete with the existing MFB where it has just pronounced that the Microfinance banks increase their capital base,” he said.  CBN deepens microfinance banking commitment The CBN under Godwin Emefiele’s leadership, promised to create people-centred Central Bank, delivering price and financial system stability as well as promoting sustainable economic development. “We will collaborate with commercial banks to significantly improve the credit culture in the Nigerian banking system,” Emefiele said in his maiden speech when he assumed office in June 2014. It was on this basis that the CBN and the bankers’ committee agreed in December to establish a national Microfinance bank across the 774 local governments, leveraging the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST). The CBN since then has worked towards increasing access to financial services for the economically active poor in order to enhance job creation and poverty reduction. The target is to increase the share of micro credit as percentage of total credit to at least 20 per cent by 2020. Recently, the Bank took some steps, including a thorough review of the subsector, increased surveillance and revocation, where necessary. These measures were intended to revitalise the sector, ensure the institutions to remain mission-focused and grow public confidence in the sub-sector. ”In a developing economy like ours the link between microfinance and the real sector is quite strong. Microfinance banks are conceived to serve as critical financial lubricants for the real sector, which is the pillar of sustained economic growth. At the moment economic policy in Nigeria faces a major challenge of reviving growth, which is the (only) sure path to ending pervasive poverty. Microfinance has worked in this regard in many climes and promises to work in Nigeria, if we get it right,” Emefiele said in his keynote address at the workshop. Represented by deputy governor, corporate services, Edward Lametek, Emefiele  said the Bank remains committed to the economic empowerment of disadvantaged groups including women and actively seeks to achieve this through the instrumentality of microfinance among other initiatives. At the seminar, Emefiele disclosed that an aggregate loans granted by MFBs was N482.896 billion and that loan sizes that are below N 1.4 million accounted for 72 per cent of the total. According to him, data from the licensed credit bureaus indicated that micro finance banks operations have helped to improve financial inclusion among smallholder peasant farmers. However, the challenges remained inadequate spread in the location of the MFBs in relation to their target beneficiaries, demand for immoveable collaterals for loans, high interest rate, and absence of a credit reporting system. “We are committed and working assiduously to address these limitations,” Emefiele said, adding that the Bank in collaboration with other agencies of government is implementing various intervention schemes in addition to promoting microfinance. The Bank, he said, has since worked towards increasing access to financial services for the economically active poor in order to enhance job creation and poverty reduction. The target is to increase the share of micro credit as percentage of total credit to at least 20 percent by 2020. Earlier in the year, Emefiele noted that as at January 31,2019,628 financial institutions comprising 21 deposit money banks, four merchant banks, one non-interest bank, four development finance institutions, 551 microfinance banks, 13 non-bank financial institutions, and 34 finance companies had been registered on the Registry’s portal. Speaking at the colloquium on the topic: “Real Sector Credit Delivery: Catalyst for Sustainable Economic Growth”, director, corporate communications department, Isaac Okorafor, expressed happiness that the CBN is working with the bankers’ committee, NIRSAL, and NIPOST to realise the national Microfinance bank project. Responding to questions on loan refinancing, he said no refinancing is allowed rather through supply side they will push credit into the sector to bring down interest rate. The CBN in collaboration with the bankers committee agreed in December 2018 to establish a National Microfinance Bank using NIPOST outlets in 774 local governments. In the National MFB establishment plan, the CBN and the Bankers Committee will utilise the sum of N5 billion as equity from N60 Billion Agri-Business Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS) Fund, while NIPOST will contribute its offices in the 774 local governments. However, this was not welcomed by microfinance operators as they opined that the decision runs counterproductive to the salient objectives of the National Microfinance Policy, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework for Nigeria as well as the objectives of the National Financial Inclusion Strategy.  The Microfinance policy framework According to the CBN, the Microfinance Policy framework is aimed at filling these gaps through a three tiered licensing framework, whereby Microfinance banks have the option of obtaining a Unit, State or National license. Also, the primary goal was to achieve a regulatory environment that will ensure the emergence of robust, efficient and sustainable institutions. The CBN developed appropriate regulatory policies and measures to ensure long term sustainability of these institutions and their contribution to economic growth and development. Some of which include; Legal and Regulatory framework, Prudential Guidelines, Supervisory environment, risk management practices, and other sector related reforms. 