The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has described former Namibian President and freedom fighter, Comrade Sam Nujoma as a revolutionary pan-Africanist and hero of Africa’s fight for liberation from colonialism. In a birthday message to the former leader of the South West Africa People’s Organization (SWAPO) and signed by President of Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, the NLC said despite being elected President with a vast majority of votes, Nujoma refused to hold on to office as is the case with most African leaders. The NLC recalled how the freedom fighter led his people to independence and proved to be a more successful political leader than a freedom fighter. The statement reads: “The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) celebrates Comrade President Samuel Shafiishuna Daniel Nujoma as he turns ninety today. The good grace of long life makes Comrade Sam Nujoma one of the few surviving revolutionary pan Africanist and heroes of Africa’s fight for liberation from colonialism. Kenneth Kaunda is another of such surviving hero. “On a day like this, we celebrate the steel, character, resilience, and unsullied sense of patriotism that has defined the life of Sam Nujoma. Born in 1929 to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Uutoni Helvi Nujoma, Sam Nujoma cut his teeth in the struggle for the liberation of Namibia, then known as South West Africa, as a trade unionist with the South African Railways. “Sam Nujoma moved on to become the founding President of South West Africa People’s Organization (SWAPO). He led the SWAPO in one of the world’s longest war for independence from 1966 to 1990. After the November 1989 general election in Namibia, Comrade Sam Nujoma was sworn in as the President of the Namibian Republic. “Comrade Sam Nujoma proved to be a more successful political leader than a war General. His visionary and altruistic land reform program went smoothly with his national reconciliation agenda and set the pace for a stable Namibia, an example that neighbouring Zimbabwe failed to re-enact thus throwing the country into unnecessary chaos. “Despite being elected with a soaring margin of 76.8% of the vote cast in the 1999 Namibian general election, Comrade Sam Nujoma refused to fall for the lure of “presidency for life”. Instead, he supported one of his fellow comrades, Hifikepunye Pohamba, to succeed him in 2004. “Namibia has continued to thrive on the strong foundation of inclusion, equity, justice, robust infrastructural development and stability as bequeathed by Comrade Sam Nujoma. “On his 90th Birthday, Nigerian workers wish him many more years of good health and opportunities to share his wealth of knowledge, experience and infectious servant leadership with many of our political leaders in Africa who certainly have a lot to learn from this great African son and statesman.” 