There is an uneasy calm in the insurance industry, The Nation investigation has revealed. Palpable is the disquiet between the industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), and the operators, following the cancellation of some regulatory initiatives and orders. NAICOM introduced three major policies to reform the industry. To find solution to the industry’s problem, NAICOM on July 25, last year, introduced the Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) that would have mandated the firms recapitalise to have a good ranking under the Tier 1, 2 and 3 categories of the TBMSC’s plan. The plan was jettisoned last November by the regulator. The Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, said the recapitalisation scheme was aimed at developing and applying appropriate tools that consider the nature, scale and complexity of insurers, as well as non-core activities of insurance groups, to limit significant system risk and achieve soundness of companies and contribute to the achievement of stability of the financial system. NAICOM said the policy would allow insurers to focus on their areas of strength, improve settlement of claims, enhance local retention, encourage market discipline, prudence and appropriate pricing, encourage innovation and deepen market penetration, encourage voluntary mergers, and build investors’ confidence, and build a stronger and more vibrant insurance industry. But some insurers, through their shareholders, kicked against it, leading to the cancellation of the policy. Similarly, the commission introduced the State Insurance Producers (SIP) policy, which would have granted states the operational licence to sell insurance products. The policy seeks to enforce compulsory insurance and deepen penetration and create jobs. But it pitched the brokers against the Commission. The move has sent jitters down the spine of operators, especially brokers, who fear that the addition of states as insurance intermediaries might throw them out of business. Based on this, the brokers threatened to sue the commission, leading to the cancellation of the policy. Following these cancellations, the industry has been at a standstill. An operator, who does not want to be mentioned, said the body language of the regulator was frightening. He said the commission has not said anything about recapitalisation,  but many of them are trying to find adequate capital. Another operator said the regulator may be hard on them when it comes up with other policies in future.