Total E&P Nigeria Limited in partnership with NNPC/NAPIMS, Petrobras, Sapetro and CNOOC held a two day breast cancer awareness campaign to enlighten women in their host communities about the deadly disease. Speaking at the launch which held at Ajah Market, recently in Lagos, the Managing Director, Total E&P Nigeria Limited, Nicholas Terraz reiterated their commitment towards eradicating breast cancer, saying that they have built mammography  centers which are at the final stages of installation of the required  mammography systems at Gbagada and Isolo General Hospital respectively. He said they believe these will provide easily available and highly subsidized mammography services with image-guided breast lump biopsy capability to the women in Lagos State. Terraz who was represented by General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Total, Charles Ngeribara, said for their CSR, they have several projects in health, education, sports, community development, and skills acquisitions. “We have a very large bucket of activities we do to empower of people. As they say, health is wealth so one major area of our focus is in health, so we do health projects and this just happens to be one of them.” Expatiating on the ongoing projects at Gbagada and Isolo General Hospitals, he said the facilities will be ready and commissioned in May, 2019, stressing that projects are at the concluding stage. He stated that these centers would be providing highly subsidized services, adding that it was the reason why Total is building, equipping and donating it to the Lagos State government in their general hospitals. “The reason for taking the stipends is to maintain the equipment, to get consumables so it is self-financing,” he added. Asked if the company has plans to take such good tidings to other states across the country he said they are already at different stages in the construction and equipment of mammography centers around the country. “As we speak, there are two that are ready in Zamfara state and will be commissioned next month, and then we are building in Anambra state, Imo state and Bayelsa state. “We are not going to end there, the aim is that every geo-political zones and every state will have mammography centers that will be donated by Total, but we are not doing them all at once. We have a programme that will cover the entire country.” He disclosed that Total is not doing any of its CSRs to benefit itself, but the communities where they operate and are hosted. “Total is in partner with the federal government to help enhance the activities of the government itself. It is our hope that by bringing diagnostic facilities nearer to the, Nigerian women would be saved from the danger of living with undetected breast lumps or undiagnosed breast cancer,” he said. 