For the first time in seven years, the East Africans were displaced in the 10 kilometres Okpekpe road race as a Bahraini, Fikadu Dawit, won the male race with a record time of 29.03 minutes. Fikadu defeated Barechanu Tsegu of Ethopia and John Lotiang of Kenya who ran for 29:04 and 29:17 minutes respectively. But the East Africans won the female category with Sheila Chalangat of Kenya taking the first position with a time of 33:14 minutes. In the Nigeria category, a couple who got married on May 4, Emmanuel Gyang Gwon and Deborah Pam Gwon won in the male and female race. Emmanuel has won the Okpekpe race four times while his wife had won it seven times. The race began at 8:15 am with Secretary to the Edo State Government, Barr. Osarodion Ogie taking the lead and shoot off. Governor Godwin Obaseki was absent but was represented by his Deputy, Hon Philip Shaibu. The absence of Obaseki fuelled speculation of a fragile relationship between him and his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole ran alone in a category tagged, “APC Race”. Oshiomhole arrived late at about 9:30am and was joined in the race by policemen and some youths to run the 10 kilometres. The VIP category was led by Shaibu, Minister of Sports, Barr. Solomon Dalung, owner of Wells Carlton Hotels and Apartments, Captain Hosa Okunbor. Speaking at the event, Oshiomhole explained that he arrived late because of an engagement he had in Abuja and said he completed the 10 kilometres race because it was good for health. Oshiomhole hailed the Edo State Government and the organisers for sustaining the tradition for the past seven years. He stated that what rural people need was not sympathy but actions that would impact on their lives positively. Oshiomhole urged the people to use the annual event to know who their true friends are. He said their true friends are those who visit them annually and not those who come every four years to seek for their votes and after which abandon them to their fate. Dalung commended Oshiomhole for translating his dream into reality in spearheading the event and said President Mohammadu Buhari was happy that the Okpekpe road race has come to stay. He said this year’s event met all international standard for it to get the gold label. Ogie said the state would always provide the needed facilities for the yearly event to thrive.