The launch of Glo into the Nigerian telecom market 15years ago was not just a happenstance. Rather, it was an epochal brand initiative which involved a forensic research about what the average Nigerian phone users wanted. Way back in the years, the two major competitors in the telecom sector had a uniform billing system that gave no care nor concern for the economic wellbeing of their impoverished subscribers. Having done its homework very well before the launch, and also poised to give the best value for money, so that its customers can come in large numbers and remain with the network, the Glo brand introduced per-second billing platform. With this, it rolled out world class services covering thousands of cities, towns and villages just within a few months of operations. This opened up the telecom category to every citizen irrespective of ethnic nationality, creed or income, enabling them to be the one with the rest of the world Not the one to rest on its oars, Glo launched a unique campaign on data services with the big idea of Glo Data is Oxygen TVC. It is not in doubt that the choice of oxygen is sine quan non as this is one of life’s most essential ingredient. Without it, life is impossible. Therefore, by saying Data is life, the TVC highlights the importance of Glo data to life and how it offers solutions to life’s challenges. This portrays Glo as emphatic to the needs of subscribers by providing cutting-edge solutions to whatever problems they are grappling with. Still operating on its tradition and culture of the big idea in its creative advertising, Glo launched the Superior Network TVC. This TVC chronicles the various milestones of the brand since inception, emphasizing the company’s unique propositions. It starts with the power of a seed morphing into 190 million connections in various cities of the world. On the whole, it emphasizes Glo’s resolve to make telephone available, affordable and accessible into a world class manner. The commercial celebrates customer empowerment as underpinning everything it does. It concluded with an undisputable claim that Glo is the superior network.  