There was pandemonium in Owerri, the Imo state capital on Monday, as operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) clampdown on suspected internet fraudsters, popularly known as ‘Yahoo Yahoo Boys’. The EFCC officials attached to the Southeast zonal office, Enugu, arrested no fewer than 25 suspects in the operation that several hours. The incident happened around Spibat avenue, a highbrow area suspected to be the haven of fraudsters. A Police source who pleaded anonymity, said that the EFCC operatives had been in the state since Sunday. He said that they swung into action on Monday morning after Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, approved their activity in the state. According to the source: “The EFCC operatives from Southeast zonal office in Enugu arrived Owerri on Sunday and proceeded to the Command headquarters where their activity in the state was approved by the commissioner of police.” “They have already crime mapped their activity in the state. They didn’t request for any assistance from the Police. What they required was for the CP to endorse their activity in the state. “Immediately the CP approved their activity in the state they moved into action and went to Spibat avenue where ‘Yahoo Boys’ in the state live. “As we speak, about 25 have been arrested. They are likely to keep them in our custody till tomorrow before they leave with them to Enugu tomorrow”. When contacted, the Commissioner of Police confirmed EFCC operatives from Enugu were in the state for a covert operation. He said that the EFCC Agents had reported to the Command Headquarters on Monday before proceeding with their activity in the state. According to him: “Yes, the EFCC operatives reported to command before proceeding to carry out the action for which they are in the state. We are aware but we are not part of the operation.” A resident of the Spibat avenue told our correspondent that the EFCC operatives who were armed stormed the avenue and started raiding houses being occupied by their targets. The source said: “On arrival, the EFCC operatives condoned off the street,block the gates leading to the houses of their targets and started raiding the apartments. Their operational modality was scary,so we ran away. “Many people, especially young boys were arrested. Cars, laptops and expensive phones, especially iPhones were equally impounded and recovered by the EFCC operatives.”