An Islamic scholar, Sheikh Alhaji Muyideen Ajani Bello, has cautioned Nigerians to shun materialism. He urged them to return to Allah to live a meaning life. He spoke in Lagos during a Ramadan lecture organised by the Babajide O. Sanwo-Olu Progressive Movement. “We must train ourselves to serve God in everything we do. Many people don’t love this country, they are only looking for money and this is why you see people moving from one political party to another,” he said. He noted that with Nigeria’s large population, if people can do the right thing, Nigeria will be a better place. He urged Muslims to imbibe the teachings of Ramadan. “Ramadan is a season of fasting and gaining wisdom, it is a season to live right, abstain from sin, backbiting and pride. It is also a season to do good, help others, say the truth, fear God, do as He wants you to and be cautious of tomorrow,” he said. The cleric also stressed the need to pray for the country and its leaders, noting that “we have to constantly pray to God to keep us safe because it does not take a twinkle of an eye for us to be wiped off the surface of the earth. We should beg God not to judge us. “We have to beg God that all those who will be working with the incoming governor of Lagos state will be good people that will do good for the people,” he said. The President, Babajide Sanwo-Olu Progressive Movement, Olalere Saheed said the gathering was to pray for Gods guidance for the elected leaders across the country. According to him, Ramadan is a holy month and prayers observed will be answered without doubt. “We believe that all powers belong to God. We have elected our leaders but they need God’s guidance. Some people have the mind to do good things for the masses and implement policies for the good of the people and the economy at large. If they are not directed by God, they will not do it. We believe that we should commit our leaders into God’s hands, so that He can take total control of all they do and direct them in the right part.” Imam Idoluwo Mosque, Lagos Island, Alhaji Abdul Lateef Uthman, said the gathering was to pray, noting that prayer is good in the month of Ramadan.     