Access Bank Plc has launched discussions aimed at adding more benefits to its award-winning premium lifestyle proposition, XclusivePlus, as the enlarged commercial bank seeks to open up the offering to its wider customer base. XclusivePlus proposition is a premium lifestyle offering specifically designed to provide customers with the exceptional service and exclusive privileges.  Launched in October 2018 under the defunct Diamond Bank, XclusivePlus won the “Best Affluent Banking Initiative in West Africa” award. Access Bank and Diamond Bank recently completed a merger. Subscription to XclusivePlus offers premium benefits, including free upgrade to a Visa Signature debit card-a debit card with access to local and international spending, travelling with free access to over 800 premium airport lounges globally, free medical emergency cover for the subscriber and loved ones anytime they travel, free movie and premium event tickets; shows, concerts, exhibitions and more, networking with industry leaders at various seminars and conferences, VIP treatment and best rates at more than 900 luxury hotels worldwide and 24-hour global concierge service, among others. Head, Consumer Proposition, Access Bank Plc, Dolapo Orelaja said there were plans to add new benefits to the premium offering in demonstration of the commitment of the bank to add values to its customers beyond normal banking transactions. She said the premium proposition has also been structured to give all willing customers of the enlarged Access Bank opportunity to participate and benefit from the first-class treatment offered by XclusivePlus. She said the bank plans to increase the current number of subscribers currently on XclusivePlus from the current level of more than 11,000 to about 100,000 by December 2019 and thereafter leverage its customer base of more than 29 million customers to widen the reach of the proposition. She noted that the premium lifestyle proposition has been well received by customers because it was a product of deep research into what the customers want and their lifestyle behaviours. According to her, the bank did a survey of what its customers wanted and discovered a rise in customer spend in the past few years for luxury travel, luxury experiences and luxury products, hence the introduction of the proposition. “People are enjoying this offering and we keep growing and we want to ensure that our customers are being catered for and enjoying these special benefits. We are deepening our relationship with our customers as this proposition is our own little way of adding value to our customers,” Orelaja said. She explained that subscribers can choose to a monthly subscription option at N5, 999 per month or discounted quarterly subscription of N17, 997 and annual subscription of N57, 599. The proposition allows all subscribers to enjoy the benefits, irrespective of account balances and transactions. Proposition Manager, Access Bank Plc, Adeola Rojaiye noted that subscription to the XclusivePlus takes less than two minutes and customers subscribe online or simple walk into any of the bank’s branches to subscribe. She added that subscription is highly flexible and customers who feel no need for the proposition can easily opt out. Existing subscribers said they have benefitted from the privileges offered by the premium lifestyle proposition and would recommend it to anyone wishing to have enhanced lifestyle. Abiodun Gaffar, a lawyer at Sorrel and Trace Partners, said he was implored to subscribe to the premium proposition by an acquaintance and he has not regretted subscribing to the offering. He noted that having experienced services by other banks, XclusivePlus stands out in terms of the bouquet of benefits and the real attention paid to subscriber by the bank, either in Nigeria or abroad. Another subscriber, Ihuoma Nwigwe, a business woman, said the premium proposition is cost effective compared to the benefits derivable from it. She narrated her experience on a trip abroad and how she was treated to many privileges using the XclusivePlus’ lounge.