REALITY television show, Big Brother Naija, provides entertainment and opportunities, Nigerians have said in a report by Plaqad Limited. Nigerians also said the show was polarising, enriching and also was a source of empowerment. The report was presented during the MultiChoice panel session at 2019 edition of the Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NEC Live.) Present at the event were CEO MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe; Executive Head Content, MultiChoice Nigeria; Busola Tejumola, Media Personality, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu; Ex BBNaija housemates, Tobi Bakre and Channel Director, M-Net, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu. The report stated that the show while airing was the most watched programme on television compared to the Englsh Premier League or Christian music concert, The Experience. “61.5% of respondents say they would rather watch Big Brother Naija than the English Premier League, or popular Christian music concert, The Experience 20.5% preferred ‘The Experience’,” said the report. “17.9% say they would rather watch a premier league match.” The report also found out that “70% of viewers love Big Brother Naija for its strong entertainment credentials while 6% say it is educative.” Speaking at the event, Ugbe said: “As soon as a housemate leaves the #BBNaija house, we make sure they meet with psychologists who will bring them back to reality and prepare them for the outside.” Ugbe said that to them at Multichoice, BBNaija is not seen as a talent show. “With #BBNaija you don’t have to win to be successful; case point – Ebuka.” Former housemate, Tobi Bakre, also noted that the show was life-changing for him. “I got into #BBNaija because I wanted to change my career path and when I left the house, there were people ready to try me at everything I wanted to try,” he said. “The show exceeded my expectations. I went into the #BBNaija house with about 25,000 followers and came out with about 300,000 followers.” Reacting on what informs selection at auditions, Busola Tejumola said: “There is no right or wrong way to present yourself at #BBNaija auditions; we just want people to be themselves.”