About $150 billion is made annually from forced labour across the world with around 152 million children engaged in the act, the International Labour Organisation, (ILO), has said This revelation is contained in a document titled: “Alliance 8.7 at a glance: joining forces globally to end forced labour, modern slavery, human trafficking  and child labour”, obtained from the world body in Abuja. According to the document about 88 million boys and 64 million girls are engaged in child labour across the world, with 40 million people living in modern slavery. The document also disclosed that 24.9 million people are engaged in all forms of forced labour, 15.4 million in forced marriage, 4.1 million in state imposed forced labour, 16 million engaged in forced labour exploitations and 4.8 million persons engaged in forced sexual exploitation globally. It said the figures tell a devastating story of human rights abuses on a vast scale, stressing that in the area of forced labour, modern slavery and human trifficking, there is little evidence of reduction in the incidence since the first statistics were gathered in 2005. It, however, said there are signs of progress in efforts at reducing child labour with the number decreasing by about 90 million since year 2000, lamenting however, the slow pace of progress being made. It added that lessons from the success in reducing child labour have the potential to be applied to other issues. The document said while Nigeria has made modest progress in recent times towards ending forced labour, human trafficking, modern slavery and child labour, there are still many gaps and challenges which require the concerted efforts of all stakeholders of the objectives to be achieved. It said: “Child labour, forced labour and trafficking in persons exist in Nigeria and can be found in almost all stages of supply chains in agriculture, mining, construction, manufacturing, retailing, service provision and even households and on the streets. “Nigeria has a high number of economcally active children, as well as those involved in the worst forms of child labour and harzardous work. International Labour Organisation estimates that about 25 per cent of Nigeria’s 80 million children under the age of 14 are engaged in economic activities. About half of this population are children exploited as child labourers and working in hazardous situations such as victims of child trafficking, domestic work, sex work, drug peddling and hawking.” The document also acknowledged the fact that the government has created an enabling environment for the fight against child labour through the ratification and adoption of some international conventions related to the elimination of child labour and the development of national laws and policies However, ILO Country Director,   Dennis Zulu, who  spoke at a consultative meeting and launch of the Alliance 8.7 targeted at ending forced labour, paid tribute to the government for efforts being made to eradicate all forms of child labour and forced labour.  Zulu acknowledged the fact that the attainment of target 8.7 of the Sustainable Development Goal was a heculean task, adding that it was gladening to note the commitment of the government to achieve the target, adding that the launch of the Alliance 8.7 was a realisation of the pledge made by the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the IV Global Conference on the Sustained Eradication of Child Labour held in Buenos Aires in November 2018. “At that conference, Nigeria indicated interest in being a Pathfinder Country and this, you will agree with me, is a giant stride in the achievement of SDG 8.7, given its position as Africa’s most populous nation and its impact at the regional level.” Zulu said “Sustainable Development Goal 8, popularly known as SDG 8, places social justice and decent work for all at the heart of Agenda 2030 which sets an ambitious trajectory towards sustainable and inclusive growth and development. “SDG 8 has several targets. Target 8.7 is particularly challenging. It calls on us to take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, modern slavery and human trafficking; and eliminate the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers. In addition, by 2025 we must end child labour in all its forms. “Achieving such an ambitious goal requires an unprecedented level of mobilization of partnership, which harnesses energy, resources and strategic and political acumen to a maximum degree. “Ending child labour human trafficking, and forced labour will require integrated thinking, coordinated actions, effective policy making and efficient use of resources in a manner we have never seen before. “Alliance 8.7 is intended to realize extraordinary and ground-breaking ways of bringing multiple actors together for concerted and focused actions to help countries to achieve the goal and targets set forth in SDG 8 and other related SDGs” He expressed hope that the launch and national consultation of Alliance 8.7 in Nigeria will lay the foundation for a Viable national alliance against child labour and trafficking in persons, a phenomenon that has unfortunately engulfed most states in Nigeria. He said: “I know that the establishment of this Alliance will be beneficial on many levels, as it will allow stakeholders at the National, States, Local Government and community levels to strengthen their efforts in  the fight against child labour and trafficking. “But it will also help to share experience that could foster Significant progress and generate positive results in the fight against this scourge.” He stressed that “Nigeria has signed, retitled and domesticated a number of United Nations and ILO Conventions that are instrumental in the fight against forced labour, child labour and trafficking in persons, including the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labour and the Minimum Age Convention. “In addition, it has made significant achievements in strengthening the legal and policy framework and the enabling environment for the achievement of target 8.7. The government has developed a National Policy on Child Labour, a National Action Plan for Elimination of Child Labour (2013-2017) and the Hazardous Child Labour List (2013). “Further, the 2003 Child Rights Act consolidates all laws relating to children into a single legislation and specifies the duties and obligations of government, parents and other authorities, organizations and bodies. And it is worth noting that Nigeria was the first country in West Africa to adopt national legislation to deal specifically with the issue of human trafficking, the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Law Enforcement Act. “Despite these efforts, the National Bureau of Statistics 2017 Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), shows that about 43 per cent of Nigerian children, in the age between 5 and 10, are working and about half of the working children are estimated to be engaged in child labour. “Children in Nigeria engage in the worst forms of child labour, including work in quarry granite and gravel, commercial sexual exploitation, and armed conflict. “I am certain you can relate with this as we walk down the streets of Nigeria and seeing the examples everywhere: Children working as beggars, street peddler and bus conductors for example. For those living or visiting rural areas you might find them in the artisanal gold mines and in cocoa farms. Less visible perhaps are the children working in domestic servitude. Needless to say, the urgency is there as we are being reminded every day by these examples. “In 2017, the ILO supported the Ministry to review the existing legal framework in the protection of working children in Nigeria and the report of this research identified loopholes in the protection of the rights of children in the workplace. “A good example are children within the legal working age that are working within the domestic work sector. A high rate of labour standard abuse exist in this sector and virtually no protection exists for such children, more so that Nigeria is yet to ratify the Convention 189 on domestic work. “At the heart of lLO’s various intervention is the Decent Work Agenda. The ILO believes that Productive employment and decent work are key elements to achieving a fair globalization and poverty reduction. “Government to develop the Decent work Country Programme which looks at job creation, rights at work, social protection and social dialogue, with gender equality as a crosscutting objective. I am pleased to inform you that elimination of child labour, forced labour and modem-day slavery are covered in the country’s Decent work programme.”