Nasrul-Lahi-L-Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT) has donated cash and materials to 39 persons in Lagos. Its Agency for Zakat and Sadaqat (NAZAS) last weekend, gave out money and items, such as Deep Freezer, sewing machine and generator said to be worth over N3 million to the beneficiaries. NASFAT Chief Missioner Imam Mahroof Abdulazeez Onike advised the beneficiaries to utilise the funds judiciously. Imam Onike said: “After collecting these empowerment benefits, don’t be extravagant. Allah doesn’t like those that are extravagant. You should use it judiciously and with the kind of prayers that have been rained on the money given to you, Allah will bless you. We have instances where former beneficiaries are now paying zakat in NASFAT. I pray that their own will not be an exception, they will continue to pay their zakat too. “What we are doing today is part of the fulfillment of our mission statement to develop and enlighten Muslim society, not just by propagation of religion but spiritual development and welfare of mankind. People cannot just come here alone on Sundays, pray and go away without taking care of their burden.” Chairman Finance and General Purpose Committee Alhaji Shamsondeen Afunku, said beneficiaries were selected after a due process. “Since we were incorporated in 2014, we have been giving people twice a year. The procedure is that we tried to be very careful because of the Nigeria factor. We attend to people on the basis of first come, first serve. It looks cumbersome but with due process,” Afunku said. NAZAS General Manager Mufutau Adelotan urged salary earners to start paying zakat. “These people have been left behind because they think they have been absolved from paying zakat. Imaging someone earning N5 million per annum. Just focus that you have N5 million per annum, now take away all your major expenses like house rent, child school fees, and so on. Once you are able to do that and your balance after all these expenditure is able to meet up Nisab, you don’t have to wait for that year to end before paying Zakat from it. If you are waiting for the year to end, you might not get that money in bulk. You can pay upfront. “If you are not doing that, you can also pay monthly. Anything that comes in for you, either salary earners, business owners especially those who are contractors, consultants who just get one-off jobs, once you get that payment, look at what you have left from that job and if it’s up to Nisab, just pay your zakat. If it is not up to that, just convert it to Sadakat,” Adelotan said.