LAGOS State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) Chairman, Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin, has urged parents to care for their wards attending public schools. He spoke on the sidelines at the  Children’s Day celebration on Monday during the flag-off of the registration of school aged pupils into Primary 1 classes of public primary schools in the state. The event held at Agege Local Government Education Authority (LGEA) . According to Sopeyin, the government played its role of providing infrastructure, paying teachers and other educational inputs under its free education policy. Parents, he said, should wake up to their responsibilities of ensuring the welfare of their wards, adding that the children should not lack uniforms, shoes, socks or writing materials needed for their education as those were small inputs compared to what the government provided. “The government will be responsible for the provision of infrastructure, blocks of classroom and teachers. Basically, responsibility of general welfare of the children lies on the parent. And you can agree with me that in Lagos State a lot is invested in education such that we have adequate block of classroom, conducive environment, and qualified teachers. So, parents naturally would be expected to ensure that their children are in good health because it is healthy minds that will make healthy individual so they will be able to go to school. They will ensure that the children are in good environment, given nutritious meals, giving them uniform, shoes, small learning materials like biro, pencil, exercise books,” he said. He added that parents should help maintain materials provided by groups or firms, who intervene in the education sector so that their wards could enjoy such provisions for a long time. Sopeyin was joined by the SUBEB Board Secretary, Mrs Foluso Ajimoti; board member, Mr Joseph Olusanya; Special Adviser on Primary Educaiton, Mrs Abosede Otun, Education Secretary, Agege LGEA; Olamilekan Majiyagbe; Education Secretary, Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGEA, Aboluwodi Solomon and others to register children aged six and above from the Agege community. The SUBEB chairman said the registration would continue weekdays in all the state’s over 1,012 public primary schools.