No fewer than 20,000 youths in Enugu State have applied for the state Cleaning and Beautification job, an initiative of Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, says an official. The Coordinator of Enugu Clean Team Project (ECTP), Rev. Fr. Michael Ogbu, told newsmen in Enugu on Friday that the application was for the additional 1,000 workers approved by Gov. Ugwuanyi to be taken in the project. “After our announcement for recruitment of additional 1,000 staff, more than 20,000 persons applied with at least a school certificate. “I can recall vividly that when we started the Enugu Clean Team Project, young people were reluctant to come for employment for the initial 1,000 workers in the project but now the story has changed,’’ Ogbu said. According to him, apart from the procurement of new equipment to cover Enugu, Nsukka, 9th Mile Corner, Awgu and Oji River axis of the state, the employment of additional 1,000 staff will enhance the operational capacity of the project. Ogbu also re-affirmed his commitment to meet the mandate given to him by the governor to make Enugu the cleanest city in Nigeria, a dream come true. “ECTP management has put machinery in motion to ensure that Enugu State and Enugu city becomes the cleanest state and city in the country within the shortest possible time. “I believe the governor and the state executive council are impressed with our performance and that is why we were graciously granted request to increase our staff strength with an additional 1,000 staff,’’ he said. He however, appealed to motorists to drive slowly in the early hours of the day to avoid hitting staff who were on duty, adding that residents should desist from indiscriminate disposal of refuse. Ogbu explained that part of the reasons why the governor established the organization was to provide employment to young people and discourage them from going into crime in addition to keeping the environment clean. The ECTP Project covers road and street sweeping, drainage clearing and de-silting, green verge areas and trees trimming as well as maintenance of ornamental flowers and parks within the state.