Lagos Central senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the just-concluded elections, Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to implement people-oriented programmes in his second term. In a statement in Lagos, Onitiri said, despite 20 years of democracy, Nigeria is still not out of the woods, because of poor leadership and “our citizens are the worst for it”. He added: “Very soon, our great country, Nigeria, will be celebrating 20 uneventful years of our democracy. As one of those that fought for this fledgling democracy, I stand to say boldly that Nigerians are yet to enjoy dividends of democracy, because of poor, inefficient, selfish and corrupt leadership hoisted on the country. “Our citizens are the worst for it. It is sad to observe that we are yet to enjoy basic amenities of life that developed countries enjoy, such as uninterrupted electricity supply, potable drinking water, good roads, access to health facilities and good quality education, almost 60 years after independence.” The PDP chieftain said Nigeria is in dire and urgent need of good leaders with the fear of God and love of the people. He said: “Nigeria needs leaders such as in Dubai, Malaysia, and Singapore. We fervently need leaders that want to genuinely serve the people and not looters and wasters of our commonwealth.” He admonished newly-elected leaders not to embark on new projects, but strive to complete all the abandoned projects that litter the nooks and crannies of the country. He said: “All our political structures should be strengthened and the doctrine of separation of powers should be reinforced. We need to de-emphasize use of money in our politic.” Onitiri said emoluments of political appointees should be reduced by half and that the savings realized should be spent on empowerment of the youths and women. He said a country that is so blessed with numerous resources both human and natural should not be left to rot and be ridiculed by developed nations, due to lack of good leadership. He said: “Our destiny is in our hands. Let us salvage the country together. Let us give our youths the chance to govern and turn the country around. The PDP chieftain said leaders must nip the looming revolution of the unemployed youths in the bud, by initiating empowerment and skill acquisitions programmes, instead of the huge resources being wasted on military gadgets for tackling  insurgency and criminals. He stressed: “The situation in Nigeria is getting worse, instead of better. The patience of Nigerians has expired and we are sitting on a time bomb that can explode anytime. “The newly elected leaders should strive to complete all abandoned projects and not embark on new ones. They owe the nation a robust and efficient leadership.”