Armed persons suspected to be bandits during the weekend attacked some communities in Zamfara State, killing more than 50 people and injuring 31 in three separate days. The attackers invaded communities under Dangurgu, kunkilai, Birnin Magaji, in Maru, Gusau and Birnin Magaji local government areas of Zamfara State. This is coming on the heels of a robust security action plan tagged, ‘Operation Puff Adder’ launched by the Ag. Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu aimed at flushing out criminal elements across some states of the federation, Zamfara inclusive. The bandits on Saturday morning, according to a reliable source, unleashed their terror on Kunkilai village when villagers were attending a naming ceremony. The bandits armed with sophisticated weapons started shooting sporadically immediately they stormed the community, killing 31 and wounding six in the process. The wounded persons, according to the source, are currently receiving treatment in Dansadau General Hospital. The attack, according to him, went unchallenged before the bandits went back to the forest they came from Adding that no security operatives came to their rescue until after the attack had ended. He appealed to security operatives including the Nigerian army to come out with what he described as a well reorganised security network to quell the constant attack on the villagers within the axis. When contacted the State Police Public Relation Officer SP Muhammed Shehu confirmed the attack and disclosed that only ten persons were killed. Also, armed bandits on Friday, stormed a village in Magami District, Gusau Local Government area of Zamfara State, killing about 20 people while about 15 sustained injuries and sacking more than 20 communities. Four military personnel sustained various injuries as soldiers engaged the bandits who were said to have invaded the community in motorcycles around 10:00 am. Confirming the attack, Acting director, Force Information, Operation Sharan Daji Major Clement K. Abiade, disclosed that the four soldiers who sustained injuries were quickly evacuated and taken to the Federal Medical Centre, Gusau for treatment. He said soldiers successfully repelled an ambushed by bandits on their way to defend the community under attack. Meanwhile, five people were also killed in bandits reprisal attack over the killing of their six leaders by a mob on Saturday. Six leaders of the bandits were last week at Burning Magsji hometown of the Nigeria’s Defence Minister, Lt. General Mansur Dan Ali’s Emirs’ palace to negotiate with the villagers over cows they claimed belong to them and were killed in the process. A resident of the area who spoke on anonymity disclosed that they were expecting such attack from the bandits; he showed this reporter photos of the victims among whom was his uncle. When contacted the phone of the police public relation officer, Zamfara state command was not available.