The non-passage of the much touted automotive policy may have practically stalled the rapid industrial plans of the Federal Government over the years with widespread fears that the prolonged delay may have far reaching implications on the economy, reports Charles Okonji experts pointed out that a review of the Automotive Policy which was decreed by President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration in 2013 is long overdue, as six years after, the policy has not only failed to achieve the desired outcomes, but has adversely impacted the cost of doing business, welfare of the people, government revenue, and has caused massive trade diversion to neighbouring countries. Crux of the matter According to the former Director of Policy and Planning Department of National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), Luqman Mamudu, the non-passage of the automotive policy bill will further compound the woes of the auto sector. It has actually started slowing down activities in the real sector apart from limiting inflow of foreign direct investments. Mamudu said, “Most Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) plan long term and are therefore more comfortable with assurance of policy endurance which this bill guarantees. This is provided for because we do not have a long term policy development choice which minimises impact of changes in regimes. It means that our reputation for sustaining policy is poor ever since the International Monetary Fund (IMF) pushed Nigeria to abandon long term planning. Most OEMs are therefore waiting in the wings for this legislation to commit their resources.” He explained that the second issue was the provision in the bill to facilitate Nigeria Customs administration with clear definitions of Semi Knocked Down (SKD), Completely Knocked Down (CKD) and local content development import incentive programme, stressing that the tariff technical committee and NADDC is expected to provide for the dedication of Chapter 98 in the tariff book. “Right now, there is so much confusion arising from ignorance about definitions, who is entitled to what, etc. It has led the industry to cripple stage, which has caused delays and embarrassment to stakeholders as the public and enemies of the policy now begin to question its relevance. While others are asking for its review, some are insisting on outright suspension. “Luckily I was recently invited to chair an Ad-Hoc committee by Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) under the Vice President Office to review the policy. There are instances where assembling plants are only able to do single circles of import a year, and sometimes, while struggling to do this, their annual renewable license expires.  Their goods are stuck in the ports and the process for renewal is bugged with bureaucracy and the inevitable consequence of huge demurrage bills. This is separate from the prohibitive logistics costs. The existing players are definitely frustrated and those waiting in the wings are hesitant,” he said. Mamudu who also doubled as the former acting DG of NADDC, disclosed that the policy has five pillars and the bill was one of the most critical of them. “We pursued its passage desperately such that by October 2017 when I exited, the bill had successfully passed the two chambers of the Legislature. It was just remaining to be cleaned by the legal department before presentation to the President for consideration and assent. But I learnt some overzealous officials derailed the process.“ Review of past auto policies It may be recalled that Nigeria automotive sector activities were really basic in the colonial period including during the first National economic plan 1962-68. Private companies such as BEWAC, CFAO, etc. were mostly engaged in the import of FBUs automobiles but with very marginal assembling operations. It was Chief Obafemi Awolowo working with technocrats and Nigeria economists including Professor Adebayo Adedeji, Allison Ayida and Phillip Asiodu that made the industry a priority in the 2nd National Development Plan of 1970-1974. This saw the establishment of two car plants; Volkswagen of Nigeria, and Peugeot Plant. “The 3rd National Development Plan ushered in the establishment of four commercial vehicle plants; Styre, Fiat, Mercedes and Leyland. In the 80s Nigeria had installed capacity to meet nearly all its automotive needs by the listed government joint ventures with OEMs and some private companies. The gap was filled with import quotas; not without some controversies though. The plants all had their local content development programs. Peugeot for instance had about 68 local content suppliers including paints, windscreen and all side glass, wire harnesses, batteries, tires, radiators, seats and seat belts, engines sleeves etc.” Policy inconsistency In 1985, IMF convinced Nigeria to abandon National planning and embrace free market economy. Since the industry was still at infancy and largely import dependents, its products became uncompetitive especially with imported second hand vehicles. Don’t forget that Nigeria equally devalued the naira. Today the market remains dominated with vehicles from scrap yards of Europe, America and Asia. The automotive industry cannot survive where ‘used’ vehicles are allowed free inflow. According to Mamudu, the government got it right by launching an automotive policy in 1993 and establishing the institutional framework for its implementation by NADDC, through legislation. “The relaunch in 2014 further consolidated the policy with the roll-out of National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP 2014-24). This policy has long translated into specific action but the problem is that whereas the fiscal measures are firmly in place, the accompanying programs which are actually the pillars have not received the desired attention. “This includes passage of the Bill that we have already mentioned, creation of a program to moderate impact of restricting inflow of second hand vehicles-the establishment of an automotive credit purchase scheme/smuggling control measures, development of quality assurance capacity, and manpower development program. These were all spelt out in the NAIDP. “As at 2017 we already had installed assembly capacity for about 500,000 vehicles annually in Nigeria but till date not up to 8 percent of that is assembled because of gaps identified earlier. Notable global brands are here already and in partnership with Nigerians. NISSAN, Hyunda, Honda, Peugeot, Yutong, Sinotruck, amongst others are already in Nigeria. My fear is that if NAIDP programs are delayed further, the public, with the prompting of those who hate the policy passionately, especially those who ignorantly insist that the fiscal measures constitute leakage in our revenue and therefore daily plotting to remove them, will undermine the policy.” The former DG noted that the strategy has worked elsewhere, including South Africa, expressing that it would work in Nigeria when implemented without flaws. He expressed his worries as the strategies had been openly presented at ECOWAS fora as a result of which the automotive industry was admitted as the 3rd regional industry priority. “Recently I heard of our neighbouring countries launching automotive policies.  If the Pan Africa free trade thing works, Morocco and others will flood this country with new automobiles before we say Car. I am not against the free trade anyway but I feel we should be ready to play as equals. We may end up importing from them if they get their act right and faster. “Over $8 billion annually is lost in the auto sector; according to NBS, and we currently import about 400,000 vehicles annually. The sad part is that 89 percent of these are used vehicles. It simply means that we loss not only forex but create job opportunities for countries of origin, while we subject our population to health hazards and joblessness.” Automotive industry if well-established can account for up to 12 percent of the country’s GDP. The  Component industry is actually where the jobs and local contents happen. This is why it must be encouraged but you must first achieve good assembling capacity before you can attract components manufacturers to partner with Nigerians just as it is happening at the assembling level now. The automotive supply chain is global. Once they notice the level of orders for SKD and CKD kits originating from Nigeria in critical mass, they will come and invest. They are already making serious inquiries. The DG of NADDC mention the desire of the South Africa components manufactures to invest in the country. “The focus of the policy is to create the right environment for existing and potential players in the industry to produce and be competitive in the global automotive industry. The fiscal measures are expected to be moderated as the industry gain traction. In this regard, the NAIDP contains programs, like I said earlier, to address quality, infrastructure, manpower development, and market and investor confidence,” Mamudu stated. In contrast, the DG of Lagos Chamber of Commerce (LCCI) Muda Yusuf, regretted that the policy has not only failed to achieve the desired outcomes, but has adversely impacted the cost of doing business, welfare of the people, government revenue and the capacity of the economy to create jobs. “It has caused massive trade diversion to neighboring countries.  High compliance cost has put enormous pressure on firms moving them into uncompetitive positions in the face of weak institutional capacity to enforce the extant tariff regime. The cost of vehicles had risen beyond the reach of most citizens and corporate bodies.  The impact has been negative with far reaching consequences. “The economic analyst disclosed that automobile sector was hit by the double shock of currency depreciation of over 80 percent in the last six years and an import duty hike to 70 percent on new cars and 35 percent on used vehicles and commercial vehicles.” According to him, the auto policy was an import substitution, industrialisation strategy to reduce importation of vehicles and incentivise domestic vehicle assembling. Import substitution strategy would only flourish in the atmosphere of high domestic value addition.  It is within such a framework that the economy can profit from the inherent values of import substitution which includes backward integration, economic inclusion, multiplier effects, and conservation of foreign exchange, job creation and reduction of import bills. Yusuf lamented that the current state of the automotive policy is not in consonance with the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP) which is the main industrial policy document of the current administration. “The NIRP espouses the strategy of resource-based industrialisation.  Six years into the implementation of the auto policy, not much progress has been made, even though over 50 vehicle assembling plant licenses have been issued. Total annual assembly of new cars in 2017 and 2018 were estimated at less than 10,000 units.” The truth is that, the high cost of vehicles has taken a severe toll on the economy, from a logistics cost and welfare point of view.  Practically all aspects of our economic and social lives had been negatively impacted by the situation.  This is because over 90 percent of the country’s freight and human movements are done by road, which implies heavy dependence on cars, commercial buses and trucks. Manufacturers and other real sector investors suffer from high cost of delivery vehicles, sharp increases in haulage cost because of the high cost of trucks; school buses have become unaffordable by many institutions; many hospitals cannot afford ambulances; many corporate organisations have drastically cut down on their fleet etc.  Vehicle ownership is now completely beyond most of the middle class.  These unintended consequences and collateral harmful effects on the economy and welfare of citizens are incalculable. This underscores the strategic importance of road transportation to domestic economic integration and connectivity. The economy has witnessed an increase in the price of vehicles by between 200 to 400 percent over the last five years not many investors and the citizens have the capacity to pay these outrageous prices.  Even prosperous corporate organisations are now buying used vehicles for official use.  The implication of the scenario for operational costs of organisations is worrisome.  The auto policy in its present form is most inappropriate for an economy that is heavily dependent on road transportation. Expert’s perspective In an article entitled: ‘The Nigeria auto industry part II – The implications of our decisions’ by Bambo Adebowale, chair of the automobile section of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, while assessing the nation’s auto policy recalled that “When the auto policy was announced, interest was 12%, Naira was N162: $1 and everyone could access forex. Now, interest rates are 14%, Naira is $367 to the dollar and rubber, steel and plastic products are all on the “41 item” list, excluded from buying forex at the CBN rate. As much as the government would argue that it has stopped the pressure put on the naira by stopping the demand for US dollars, a counter argument is that it has in one fell swoop, almost killed off the very industry that it is trying to develop – an industry that directly supports the economy. In its stead, smuggling has increased, unemployment is rife amongst car dealers and older cars have flooded the market, bringing with it, more technically unsound vehicles and more clandestine methods to avoid duties and levies. The current problem Nigerians will more likely purchase a used, but trusted brand, than a new and relatively expensive, but unknown brand. This invariably means “tokunboh” (imported, used). The Naira being less than half the value when the auto policy was introduced in 2013 hasn’t helped. In addition, the government has increased the duty on vehicle imports. Ironically, while the Nigerian government was increasing duty on vehicle imported, Benin Republic reduced transit charges – by up to 27% (in March 2017). This encouraged the import of vehicles through the Autonomous Port of Cotonou in transit to Nigeria. In 2013 – the year the Nigeria auto policy was released, 37% of the 800,000 used cars imported into sub-Sahara Africa were to Benin republic. Way forward It is the contention of experts that if these recommendations are adopted, there would be a great relief to the private sector from the logistics perspective; more jobs will be restored in the automobile business sector; maritime sector activities will be boosted; car assembly plant will be better off with a five percent duty on SKD and zero percent duty on CKD; the welfare effect on citizens will be positive; vehicle affordability by the middle class will improve; the transportation sector will benefit tremendously; smuggling of vehicles will reduce drastically; NPA and ports terminals facilities will be more optimally utilised for better revenue performance; and customs revenue from vehicle imports will improve considerably.  The proposition of a review of the automotive policy fits very well into the Ease of Doing Business Policy of the government. 