With Nigeria ranking second among countries with the worst open defecation practices, the Federal Government has launched a new campaign to bring about behaviour change and sensitise the public on the health and environmental implications of emptying their bowels in the open, reports Frank Ikpefan. Worried by the increasing rate of open defecation in the country, the Federal Government has launched the Clean Nigeria campaign. The campaign, stakeholders at the launch believe, will begin the process of enlightening the public towards eradicating open defecation in the country. Open defecation is the human practice of defecating outside or in the open environment, rather than in a toilet. In Nigeria, many people resort to emptying their bowels in fields, bushes, highway sides, uncompleted/abandoned buildings, open markets, dump sites, drains, open markets, rivers, forests, ditches, streets, canals and other open space. Studies have shown that people defecate in the open because either they do not have access to toilet or due to traditional cultural practices. Other reasons that encourage open defecation include poor quality of toilet, risky and unsafe toilet, presence of toilet, but no privacy, lack of water close to the toilet and too many people using a toilet. Simply put, open defecation is common where good sanitation infrastructure and services are not available. However, even where good and safe toilets are available, behaviour change efforts may still be needed to promote the use of toilets, experts said. Available records showed that about 892 million people, or 12 percent of the global population still defecate in the open.  Sadly, as huge as seventy-six per cent or 678 million of the 892 million people practising open defecation in the world live in just seven countries, Nigeria inclusive. According to experts, open defecation can pollute the environment and cause health problems, with high levels of open defecation being linked to high child mortality, poor nutrition, ignorance, and poverty. Nigeria, according to official figures quoted by Water Resources Minister, Suleiman Adamu, currently has 47million people defecating in the open – no thanks to the country’s poor toilet infrastructure, especially in urban centres where the problem is more pronounced. The country’s ranking among countries still practising open defecation has moved from fifth position in the last few years to second. This means that Nigeria currently ranks number two among nations with the worst open defecation practices, with all the attendant health and environmental implications and hazards involved. Going by the report of the Joint Monitoring Progress 2017, Nigeria is expected to replace India by October this year as number one country with the highest number of persons practising open defecation. Ironically, India is projected to become open defecation-free also by October this year. Experts are worried because the projection is seen as a reflection of Nigeria’s poor sanitation conditions and lack of concerted efforts to address the problems. With 47million people defecating in the open, it means approximately one in four persons will have nowhere to toilet; while the national access to basic sanitation stands at a low level of 33 per cent. Also, data from the recently conducted water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) National Outcome Routine Monitoring (WASHNORM) in 2018 showed a marginal reduction in access to improved water supply to 67.9 per cent with only 3.7 per cent meeting safely managed criteria for sanitation. Therefore, it was no surprise that the government launched the campaign. Hygiene experts say open defecation perpetuates the vicious cycle of disease and poverty, besides being an affront to personal dignity. Countries where open defecation is most widely practised have the highest numbers of deaths of children under the age of five, as well as high levels of under-nutrition, high levels of poverty, and large disparities between the rich and poor. The country’s poor sanitation and hygiene practices, unknown to many, have claimed more lives than the deadly Boko Haram terrorists. Records have shown that the number of children lost to poor sanitation in the country annually is alarming, as many primary, secondary and tertiary institutions in Nigeria lack safe and hygienic toilet facilities. According to WaterAid, an international non-governmental organisation (NGO), around 60,000 children under the age of five in Nigeria die from diseases caused by the nation’s poor access to water, sanitation and hygiene. Experts have also warned that unless stringent measures are adopted to check open defecation in the country, Nigerians’ health will continue to be jeopardised. Besides the number of deaths recorded annually from poor sanitation, about $3.38 billion are also lost annually in the country  to poor sanitation conditions. This figure, as far WaterAid is concerned, constitutes 0.9 per cent of Nigeria’s gross domestic products (GDP). As far as Adamu is concerned, the Clean Nigeria campaign will help eradicate open defecation in the country by 2025. But in order to monitor or track the progress, the government has also launched a website in Abuja. The site, Adamu stressed, will serve as a link to the public and monitor the progress made to end open defecation in Nigeria by 2025. “The ministry has put in place the Clean Nigeria programme to end open defection by 2025 with the slogan: ‘Clean Nigeria, use the toilet.’ The cleannigeria.ng is the official website for the national campaign to end open defecation. It is one aspect of the campaign to visualise information for advocacy and communication. We want Nigerians and the world to follow the progress being made to end open defecation in the country. We want users to be inspired to take action and contribute their quota to the progress being made to end open defecation in Nigeria,” Adamu said. While reiterating that the country is committed to ending open defecation by 2025, the Minister said this was what made President Buhari to launch the National Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Action Plan and declared a state of emergency in the sector in 2018. Recently, during a one-day inter-ministerial dialogue on sanitation in Abuja aimed at gathering momentum and collaborative plans towards ending open defecation in the country, Adamu recommended an executive order from President Muhammadu Buhari, stressing that this will mandate Nigerians to put the right facilities in place to end open defecation. “India, as the number one or largest country practising open defecation is on course to becoming open defecation-free by October this year. This will leave Nigeria as the number one open defecation prevalent country. Within the last four years, India has been able to provide toilets for 400 million persons, and is on track to meet the target of delivering toilets to an additional 150 million persons before October 2019. “The India campaign to eliminate open defecation, under the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), demonstrates that it is possible to change attitudes and facilitate access to sanitation facilities and hygienic practices. We are proposing an executive order to the president that will mandate all ministries to address all issues of sanitation and so this is a national issue. Our main focus is behaviour change; we want people to know the need to have and use toilets for themselves,” he said. Speaking in an interview, Water Aid’s  Communication Officer, Blessing Sani, said the campaign to end open defecation in the country was long overdue. She applauded the launch of open defecation free (ODF) website, saying it is timely because it is important for Nigerians to know the dangers of open deflation and their responsibilities as well as those of stakeholders in tackling it. The communication expert warned that Nigeria should not be allowed to replace India as number one country with the highest number of persons practising open defecation in the world. “We believe this information portal will enrich many with relevant information, provide real time data on the campaign progress and encourage people to do more to make the ‘Clean Nigeria’ campaign a success. It is critical that every Nigerian be aware of the dangers of open defecation and their responsibility, alongside other stakeholders, in tackling the sanitation problem. “It is appalling that Nigeria ranks second after India among countries with the most people practicing open defecation. While India is on track to solving this crisis, Nigeria will become number one when that happens. We cannot attain such a status as a country. WaterAid has constantly supported the government in its effort to deliver sustainable water, sanitation and hygiene services and we are committed to ending open defecation in Nigeria by 2025,” Sani said. Also, the United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF) attributed Nigeria’s decline among countries practising open defecation to lack of political awareness of issues regarding inequalities in access to basic water, sanitation, and hygiene services. It also identified low prioritisation and poor commitment of policy makers as well insufficient and poorly-targeted funding as other challenges. Jennifer Ehidiamen, UNICEF national communications consultant (campaign to end open defecation), urged the government to adopt the community-led total sanitation (CLTS) to tackle the country’s open defecation problem. “The CLTS is an approach that empowers communities to see open defecation as a menace. It propels them to stop open defecation within the shortest time possible. Nothing significant can be achieved in isolation. Nigerians need to take ownership of this ‘Clean Nigeria: use the toilet’ campaign and not see it as a campaign by the government. The first step is awareness creation. Thousands of communities have attained the open defecation free status as a result of the community-led total sanitation and the toilet business owner (TBOs) efforts. These are all successful examples that need to be replicated, expanded and up-scaled,” she said in a statement. Unfortunately, most Nigerians are not aware of the severity of the problem. According to a poll conducted by UReport in March 2019, only 33 per cent of Nigerians are aware that Nigeria ranked second among countries with the highest number of persons practising open defecation. But the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, noted that issues of sanitation and hygiene cut across all parts of the country, saying poor access to safe water and sanitation facilities can affect national productivity. The former Lagos State governor added that there is the need to evolve sustainable ways to dispose all kinds of wastes, noting that promoting access to water supply and managing waste effectively are pillars for inclusive development. The minister said there is the need to awaken national consciousness through behaviour change to promote wellness, calling for support from sub-national levels to address the challenges. Although evidence-based advocacy is needed to create the necessary political awareness and incite commitment and leadership to ensure that ending open defecation is brought to the forefront of the government agenda, experts believe the target to eradicate open defecation cannot be achieved without requisite funding to put facilities in place, especially if state and local governments as well as communities are not mobilised to own the campaign.