KATHRYN Fasegha’s ‘2 Weeks in Lagos’ was screened at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival on Friday, May 17, in Cannes, France. The movie, a love story set in Lagos, Nigeria, features prominent Nollywood actors like Mawuli Gavor, Beverly Naya, Joke Silva, Jide Kosoko, Toyin Abraham, Shaffy Bello, Tina Mba and others. It captures the complexity and excitement of everyday life in Lagos where anything is possible in two weeks. ‘2 Weeks in Lagos’ is a love affair of Ejikeme (Mawuli Gavor) and Lola (Beverly Naya). Their paths cross when Ejikeme, an investment banker comes home from the United States to invest in Nigerian businesses. It is love at first sight for them and as they embark on a journey of discovering this new love, they must contend with the political ambitions of Ejikeme’s mother who is planning a marriage between him and the only daughter of Otunba Ayodeji, a political juggernaut who is considering Ejikeme’s father as his running mate for the Nigerian Presidency. His mother’s actions create a rift between Ejikeme and Lola that puts their families on a deadly collision course. Speaking on the movie, Kathryn expressed her joy to showcase her movie at Cannes. “I am very excited to be at the Cannes Film Festival,” she stated. “For me, it’s not just about directing a movie, it is also exciting to see my movie placed at one of the biggest film platforms in the world. The Cannes Film Festival is one where movies from different parts of the world are showcased to promote film making, and I am grateful to everyone who contributed to bringing this movie to life, from the cast to the crew and everyone indeed.” Fasegha is a Canadian-based filmmaker known for her award winning movie, ‘Treacherous Heart’ which she directed in 2012. The movie won Best Drama in Diaspora at the African Oscars in North Carolina, USA 2012. She won Favorite Director African Oscars, Washington DC USA and award for the Global Woman Vision Award Calgary, in June 2012. She is also a member of the Calgary Society of Independent Filmmakers (CSIF) as well as Women in Film and Television Alberta (WIFTA).