Yola, the Adamawa state capital, has been flooded after a downpour which displaced residents and disrupted businesses in at least three communities. The rain, the most intensive since the end of harmattan in January, drastically calmed the usually harsh Yola weather but left sour grapes in the mouth of many who lost household items and shop wares. The flooding, which caused the most damage in Jambutu, Damilu and Bachure in Yola North Local Government Area, was also evident around much of Yola South. By the Jambutu Bypass, an expansive mechanic workshop had all the dozens of parked vehicles submerged by water. One of the mechanics, Ismail Seidu, told our correspondent on Friday: “The rain was a shocker. We’ve had a number of it already but none caused us any upset. “This came and threw us out of balance. Not only did it flood everywhere and cut our day short yesterday, we will also not be able to work today as the water is yet to drain out.” Several shops were temporarily swallowed up in floods in the affected communities, particularly in Bachure where a cement seller was said to have lost over a hundred bags of cement. Although no loss of life had been reported by Friday afternoon, many residents whose homes were rendered uninhabitable would still be unable to use their homes until after a couple of days. “The dirty water brought into our compound by the rain destroyed food stuffs, soaked our clothes and beddings and other such things, some of which we have only just washed,” an affected resident of Damilu, Rasne Simon said. She added she had to spend Thursday night with a relation outside Damilu and would have to do the same on Friday. Much of the damage was done in flood-prone areas, particularly in the Jambutu axis, where water channelisation is poor and flooding is almost an annual affair. The Executive Secretary of the Adamawa State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr Muhammad Suleiman, said in a response to the incident that he had dispatched officials to assess damage and recommend palliative measures.  