Muslims has been urged to make use of the opportunities in the holy month of Ramadan to achieve glory and dignity in this world and in the next. During the Second yearly Ramadan of Taqwa Private School, the Parents Teachers Association (PTA) Chairman, Alhaji Abdul Hafeez Lanre Hassan urged Muslims to make judicious use of Ramadan opportunities with all attention it deserves. “Ramadan is a month guarantee by Allah (SWT) that all our good deeds will be accepted. We need to quickly take opportunities in this month,” he said. He noted that PTA of the school has been longing over the years for an event like this especially during this month of Ramadan but as Allah wills, Taqwa School commenced this laudable event last year. “The outcome of the maiden edition, which was well attended and very positive, has geared us towards this year’s event and in sha Allah, this programme has come to stay in Taqwa,” Hassan said. The guest speaker, Abdul Wahab Agbomeji, advised Muslim to go back to the Quran which is the solution to the problem of our time. Agbomeji, who is the Chief Missioner, Ansar-Ud-deen Society Ikorodu, Lagos, said: “There are many portions of the Qur’an that could be used to solve problems. They are applicable in the past, relevant now and in the future. It is for all generation.” He said marriage is important in building healthy, protective relationships, families, and societies. “In order for an Islamic marriage to be valid, it has to meet certain criteria, which would ensure the health, security and wellbeing of the couple, their families and their communities,” he said. Noting that the family is the bedrock of any society, he said if there is a stronger family structure, the society will be strong. “Allah has given us clear guidance on how to get the family right so we need to work on it and go back to the Quran which is the basis. Islam is a religion that is ordained by Allah, Allah knows us; He knows what He has created; He knows how we want to live our lives and He has given us clear guidance on how to live it. If we get the family right, the society will be better,” he said.