Emmanuel Amuneke, former Barcelona winger and current coach of Tanzania is undoubtedly one of the success stories of the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifying tournament after securing a place for the Taifa Stars on the continental soccer table for the first time since 1980 when they made their debut. The former African Footballer of the Year shares his experience in the campaign as well as his expectations when the 32nd edition of the continental showpiece gets underway in Egypt in an interesting conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Twenty-five years since he emerged as the star of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) after scoring the brace as Nigeria emerged champions in a tight 2-1 win over Zambia in 1994, Emmanuel Amuneke, the former Barcelona winger and current coach of Tanzania, has yet predicted a tough contest as the crème de la crème of African teams gather in Egypt for the 32nd edition of the continental showpiece. The AFCON now in its 62nd year has evolved over the years since only three countries competed for the inaugural edition held in Sudan in 1957 but at Egypt 2019 a new chapter would be opened as 24 teams would for the first time in history contest for the continental most sought-after trophy. In the mix are the hosts’ Pharaohs of  Egypt who incidentally have a record seven title as well as defending and five-time champions, Indomitable Lions of Cameroon. Other past winners on  the card are  four-star Black Stars of Ghana; three-time winners the Super Eagles of  Nigeria; Algeria; Cote d’Ivoire;South Africa; Tunisia; DR Congo; Algeria and  Morocco.  There are also tested campaigners complete with Mali, Guinea, Senegal, Uganda, Benin and Angola. The trio of Madagascar, Burundi and Mauritania  would be making their AFCON debut while Amuneke-led Taifa Stars of Tanzania returns since their debut 39 years ago when Nigeria hosted the AFCON in 1980. “This AFCON in Egypt would be the most difficult to win,” Amuneke, the 1994 Africa Footballer of the Year began in a special interview with The Nation from his base in Dar es Salam.“It’s going to be a difficult AFCON to win even for the traditional big teams because most of their players would be coming down for this competition  after a gruelling season in their respective European leagues. “ I also feel that  the so-called underdogs would be a big threat  to the aspirations of the big teams like Egypt, Senegal, Nigeria, Cameroon Tunisia and Morocco. “ I’m very happy that Tanzania is part of the teams that would be playing for the first time  in the enlarged 24-team format  in Egypt and we have to go out there and show that our qualification for the AFCON for the first time since 1980 is not a fluke. “I’m happy for the Tanzanian people and players who had long to be part of the tournament since their debut 39 years ago but we are not going to Egypt  just to make up the numbers; we are going to show what we have.” Reflecting on the team’s qualification for the AFCON, Amuneke said  it was not achieved on a platter of gold  as the Taifa Stars survived from a tough qualifying section and only sealed their ticket as the runner-up from Group L  on the final match day with a flattering 3-0 win over already qualified    Uganda in front of a delirious home crowd at the National Stadium in Da es Salam. “I’ve achieved so much both as a player and coach but  24th March 2019 was a special day for me; the day Tanzania qualified for the AFCON after a very long time,” surmised Amuneke who four years ago, led Nigeria national youth side (Golden Eaglets) to win the FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile. “ Of course, our qualification was not as easy as it seems but  I knew it is not going to be an easy thing right from the day I was appointed (he was appointed 6th  August 2018 as Tanzania national football team head coach) but one of the secrets of our qualification is honesty with purpose. “ The players, the technical crew and the backroom staff were all honest about the assignment and we all gave our very best to ensure we qualified for the AFCON. We were open to criticisms and we were our own worst critics because we know we have to think outside the box to ensure we make history. “Of course, we respected all the other teams in our group but at the end of the day, it’s Uganda and Tanzania that came out of our group. Nothing can be achieved without hard work but I’m most grateful to God  that he crowned our efforts with glory.” Yet work is cut out for the Taifa Stars after they were drawn against Senegal, Algeria and Kenya in Group C at the AFCON but Amuneke reckons his side are not going to be the Cinderella  team in Egypt. “ Of course, 24 teams are going to contest for the AFCON title but there will only be one winner in Egypt,” explained Amuneke who scored the  match-winning goal in the 3-2 defeat of Argentina when Nigeria won Africa’s first Olympic Soccer Gold Medal  at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. “This AFCON would be the first to accommodate 24 teams and I’m of the view that it is good for African football. It would have been difficult for the so-called small teams to  qualify  but it’s a serious departure from the past as we are going to see some new teams in Egypt. “To change from one stage to another can be difficult but this 24-team format is good for African football; now we have Burundi, Madagascar and  Mauritania and you can’t count Tanzania out. “ It’s one step after the other; Tanzania is going back to the AFCON after 39 years and that means we have a lot of catch up to do so that we can compete against the other teams  that would be in attendance. “In our group we have Senegal and Algeria; these two teams are very experienced as far as the AFCON is concerned and there is also the strong East African rivalry against Kenya. So we are in a very interesting group at the AFCON. “The only way we can qualify from the group is work very hard and pray for some luck too. We can’t  be afraid after qualification for the biggest African football party. The only way  to succeed is to work very hard; and we are ready to bend down and work very hard. If it pleases God Tanzania would do something great in  Egypt.” All  the big boys of  African football in Diaspora would be on parade in Egypt and while hosts Egypt would as expected be completed with African Footballer of the Year and Liverpool , Mohammed Sallah; Senegal  also has Liverpool striker  Sadio Mane; Nigeria has a clutch of enterprising youngsters in Alex Iwobi of Arsenal and Samuel Chukwueze of Villarreal amongst others. But Amuneke reckons Tanzania has a joker in the pack in the shape of Mbwana Ally Samatta- the free scoring striker with Belgian Jupiler side Genk who incidentally is the captain of the Taifa Stars. “ Of course, I’m happy that we have Ally Samatta on our side but he’s not the only player we can count on,” remarked Amuneke who as a matter of coaching principles believes the whole must be greater than the sum of its parts. “We have other players in Zambia, Algeria, Morocco and Spain; Ally Samatta is our captain and I like his professional attitude. He understand the privilege of being the captain of the team and it’s a thing of Q1: Tanzania are in a difficult Group C along with Algeria, Senegal and Kenya at the AFCON, what is your expectations of the Taifa Stars? We would give our best and that is one thing I’m sure of but I can’t say now where it would lead us to. But I have a feeling that Tanzania would make good impression at the AFCON in Egypt. I’m inspired with what the new generation of coaches like Jurgen Klopp with Liverpool; Pep Guardiola with Manchester City; Mauricio Pochettino of Spurs  and several others  are doing; I think we can also contribute something to the development of African football. Q2: Some people are already predicting a  final match between the Pharaohs of  Egypt and the Super Eagles of Nigeria, what are your thoughts about this? Of course, both team have good players and Egypt would be  a strong force with Mohammed Sallah but whether Nigeria and Egypt would be the last two teams standing is something nobody can be certain of. We have to wait till the kick off in June and see how all the 24 teams would compete. For now, my fingers are crossed. Q3: You’re a member of the CAF Technical Study Group (TSG) for the recently concluded U-17 AFCON, is there hope for African football with the calibre of talents at the championship? I want to commend all the teams because they gave a good account of themselves. The essences of this competition is developmental not win or lose, the teams have to be commended because we have seen some new talents coming through. I’m impressed with Morocco because they are very drilled and disciplined team. The top scorer from Angola is a good player and I’m also impressed with Cameroon’s number 10 (Steve Regis Mvoue). Kudos to coach Manu Garba and Nduka Ugbade because they came up with some good young players to the tournament. I like the number 13 (Akinkunmi Amoo);14 (Alfred Olaniyan) and number 9 (Wisdom Ubani) reminds me of Victor Osimhen who was our star striker in 2015 when we won the FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile. But these players need a lot of guidance in the coming years so that they are not misled. Q4: Talking about Osimhen and  other players that passed through your hands at the U-17 level in Nigeria, are they good to be part of the Super Eagles for the AFCON In Egypt? It would be exciting to see them at the AFCON but they can only make the squad by showing what they can do to the Super Eagles technical crew. I’m happy that a lot of the players that we took to Chile in 2015 are really coming up and that is a confirmation of the good job we did at that level. They went through the process of education both theory and practical; they understand the process of the game and what need to be done at every point. I’m happy that God gave all of us both the technical and backroom staff of which you belong, the wisdom to mould these players. I remain grateful that these boys played with their hearts under me and maybe I would have the opportunity of still coach them again in the future. Q5: What are the things you don’t compromise as a coach? Honesty and injustice. To succeed as a coach, you have to be honest with yourself and the team. Once you give your best to the team by working hard you don’t  have problem with me.  The second for me is that you don’t deny people their rights. “My guiding principle as a coach is honesty; I’m honest to myself and to the job and bury myself into the job once I’m convinced about what I’m doing and it’s my dreams to help develop the game here in Tanzania. “I’m an African and it’s a shame if I can’t tell Tanzanians the truth. Of course, you can’t please everybody but I owe everybody my respect. Now, everybody can see where we are heading to.” Of course, the coaching job is fraught with landmines  and  most often than not, coaches are fired yet Amuneke said he was only concerned with the present and not the future. “Frankly, I don’t worry about what I’m not in control of,” surmised the former African Champions with Zamalek in his heyday. “ My life  has been a journey and I’m convinced that it’s God that has been leading me through right from my playing days. “ I have a contract in place with the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) and if it pleases, God for me to extend the contract, I’ll surely do.My joy is that everybody now realise the huge potentials we have in Tanzania and that any good player can actually play for the country irrespective of the club he’s attached with. “Until now you have to play for the big clubs to be given a chance in the national team but that is no longer the case with my presence here. As long as I’m here, players would be featured based on merit. “ We can’t predict the future, only God knows. We all know that the coaching job is associated with hiring and firing; but I want to make my mark as a coach and only God knows what is in store for me.” Meanwhile, Amuneke has yet pay tribute to army of coaches that have shaped his career right from humble beginning at defunct Nigerlux of Lagos under the late Professor Yemi Tella. “I was lucky to have passed through the hands of some very good coaches and I picked so much  from their style and methods which is also helping me today,” he explained. “Late coach Yemi Tella made a huge impression on me while at Nigerlux and there was also coach Mutiu Okunnu when I was at Julius Berger.“ I also worked with good coaches when I was at Zamalek of Egypt. Legendary Scottish coach Dave Mackay was on hand when I joined Zamalek. It was also a great privilege to have worked with late Mahmoud El-Gohary at Zamalek. “ At FC Porto, I was coached by Carlos Queiroz  and was also lucky to have passed through the hands of late Sir Bobby Robson and Louis van Gaal during my days at FC Barcelona. “ But the coach that made a far greater influence on me is Jose Morales. “I asked myself several questions before deciding on my next line of action after my retirement as a footballer: ‘I’m capable of being a good coach? Do I have the temperament to impact knowledge as a coach? What would be my objectives as a coach or is it because money is involved?” “For weeks, I gave thoughts to these questions and several others; and I started making enquiries about where I could go for my professional training. I actually wanted to go to England because I felt I would be comfortable in an English class but ended up doing my first level coaching course in Spain in 2004. “It was a bit tasking and tiring for me as I went through the course for three years and along the line I enjoyed what I was doing; I had the chance of training youth teams in Spain which was part of the course requirement and later, I got the opportunity to work under Jose Morales in Saudi Arabia. “Working under Morales gave me the chance to learn more under a professional atmosphere which cannot be compared with what I went through with the youths while undergoing my coaching course; I had a nice experience in Saudi Arabia with Al-Hazm FC as I was able to learn a lot of things mostly on tactical formations; planning for a match; reading and interpretation of what the opponents would do. “Morales assisted Jose Mourinho when he was at Benfica and when we were in doubts about something, he would call Mourinho; it was a huge privilege to work under him and it helped my career as a coach. I can’t but thank Morales for the wonderful introduction to coaching,” noted Amuneke who would be 49 on December 25.