A potter’s workshop which once enchanted the world and put Nigeria on the global map now lies in ruins, reports GRACE OBIKE The history of Nigeria will not be complete without the story of the illiterate potter Ladi Kwali who rose to prominence by placing Nigeria on the world pottery map to the extent that she is the only woman on the Naira. She is said to have made large pots for use as water jars, cooking pots, bowls and flasks from coils of clay beaten out from inside with flat wooden paddles and decorated her pots with incisive geometric, stylised figurative patterns with animal motifs. Her great talent was showcased internationally, from 1958-1959 where she held two successful exhibitions at the Berkley Gallery. In 1961 she held another exhibition at the Royal College, Farnham and Wenford Bridge, London. In 1962 she exhibited Nigeria’s local pot making techniques in London. In 1972, she visited several institutions and galleries in the United States and held an exhibition at the Howard University, Washington DC. In 1962 the British government decorated her as the Member of the British Empire and she was awarded an honorary doctorate degree by Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) in 1970. She gave lectures and demonstrations on her craft within and outside the country and was a part-time instructor at ABU Zaria. In 1981, she received the National Honour of the Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON). She also received a Silver Award for Excellence at the Tenth International Exhibition of Ceramic Art, Smithsonian Institute, Washington DC. With her death in 1984, great honour trailed her. The Abuja Pottery Centre was named after her. She was also featured on the Nigerian N20 currency note. Also, a prominent street in Abuja was named after her. All of this was made possible after a famous British studio potter Michael Cardew established a pottery training centre in old Abuja (now known as Suleja), the centre served as a historic point for the intergration of western pottery with traditional Nigerian methods. Students at the pottery centre were drawn from Europe and communities in Northern Nigeria, he spotted the works of Ladi Kwali, a then local potter and invited her to the centre. She was the first famale potter at the centre and introduced revolutionary skills that combined with the use of western technology, stunned the world. The centre was eventually named after her and at its peak, it was a training centre with over 100 employees and a tourist destination. Sadly Nigeria is ranked 9th out of 18 countries leading in ceramics production but unfortunately Nigeria is the only country out of these that does not export any ceramics, even though Nigeria is home to 99% the solid materials required to produce pottery, no export can be boasted of. Table wares, electrical insulators, spark plugs used in vehicles, eronotics, break shields, ballistics, bullet proof vests are all products of ceramics but unfortunately Nigeria is not trying to harness this great opportunities created by the minerals found in abundance in the country for these great inventions. President Dajo pottery in Makurdi, Yakubu Dajo who was once a student of Ladi Kwali had a lot to say about the centre, “What you hear of Ahmadu Bello today is because of the centre, the Northern Nigeria college of arts and sciences which later became ABU took a cue from the centre because of what Cardew started and introduced ceramics in the fine arts department as a course, eventually it was made that all specialising students of ceramics must come to the centre for internship. “From here he established the museum potter in Jos, from this centre the Maraba pottery in Kaduna/Jos road was established, the Jakaranda pottery in Kaduna and Alhabib pottery in Minna Niger state. A lot of people took cue from this centre and started establishing smaller potteries and in 1979, I established the Dajo pottery, pockets of centres across the country was established from this centre like the modern ceramics Umuahia, Okigwe pottery centre and the research institute for ceramics.” Today, the Ladi Kwali centre that brought so much pride to Nigeria is in complete ruins. The centre which the  journalist Liz Moloney once wrote about is no more than a few ghost buildings, home to rodents and snakes, with crumbling walls surrounded by grass and empty and dusty floors that were once alive with activities of hundreds of potters. After years of dilapidation, the Nigerian ceramics world can breathe a sigh of relief because the Federal Government in collaboration with the World bank is working on reviving the centre. The Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Hon. Abubakar Bwari recently led a delegation of the World Bank team to the centre, the minister who was represented by the director steel Mr Imeh Ekrikpo, said. “It is no longer news that the once notable Ladi Kwali Pottery Centre and its training facilities have been allowed to decay by successive governments in Nigeria. To demonstrate the determination of this administration led by His Excellency, President Muhamadu Buhari to diversify the economy of the nation, I am here today as the Honourable Minister of State, Ministry of Mines and Steel Development to inform you of the Mission of Government to rehabilitate the abandoned Centre through the World Bank Assisted Mineral Sector Support for Economic Diversification (MinDiver) Programme. “The Federal Government shall upgrade the Centre to meet the demands of contemporary modern pottery production which is expected to harness the abundant mineral resources requirements of the industry available locally.”