The recent industrial accident at African Foundries Limited, a steel rebar and allied products factory in Ogijo, Ogun state, in which at least three Nigerian casual workers lost their lives and many injured, has once again, drawn attention to the goings-on in some factories owned by Asian companies. Eye witness accounts of residents and reports in the media have it that on Thursday, April 11, Amaechi Joseph, 40, Adedayo Dauda, 23, and David Jasper, 26, were killed in the early morning blast at the plant located along Ikorodu-Shagamu expressway. As contained in the publications, inside sources revealed that one of the victims, Amaechi Joseph, had a couple of hours before the explosion alerted his superiors to a malfunction in the steel-grinding mill or melting pot, but was directed to “continue his job, and that they would do the repairs at the weekend.” Joseph did not live to recount the disaster that followed, for a couple of hours after his observation, the melting pot exploded and a section of the plant engulfed in flames. And, curiously, the official reaction by African Foundries’ management did not tally with the reports in the media which were based on first-hand information provided by observers who were identified in the publication and workers who preferred anonymity. The company’s official statement that came through the Executive Director days after the accident seemed more diversionary and intent on absolving the management of blames, than giving a dispassionate account of the accident. The statement said the three victims had already closed for the day, “but were taking their bath in an open place; in an unauthorised location described as restricted area within the factory, instead of the normal factory bathroom,” when they were “accidentally touched by a splash of liquid metal from a furnace.” This incongruity in the accounts of the accident certainly raises the question as to whether some facts are not being deliberately suppressed. Was there an explosion at Africa Foundries {as witnessed and felt by the company’s workers and residents of the neighbourhood}, or was the accident that morning a mere “splash” of melted steel as claimed by the factory’s management? How true was it that the late Amaechi Joseph observed a defect in a furnace hours before the blow-up, and why was necessary action deferred till “weekend”? As recommended in the Factory Act, were the globally accepted safety procedures for hazardous industrial environments in place at Africa Foundries as at the time of the mishap? Are the factory workers registered with the National Social Insurance Trust Fund in line with the Employees Compensation Act? These are very pertinent questions that have not been answered, and the puzzles need to be untangled in the interest of the African Foundries workers and other Nigerians who may be engaged in unprotected factory settings elsewhere. That is why the government of Ogun state, where the company is located, should urgently institute an investigation into the incident. But that should not be all. Labour unions and the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment owe the country a duty to ensure that an issue like this is never swept under the carpet. Perhaps, more than anything else, what should be of utmost concern to all Nigerians is the allegation by residents {in one of the newspaper reports} that explosions were frequent inside African Foundries; but on each occasion, “such disaster is kept away from public glare.” This is another compelling reason why an inquiry should be launched into the accident and other issues it has thrown up; if for nothing else, to get to the truth, or otherwise. Primarily, the Factory Act has provisions intended to ensure that employees exposed to occupational hazards in a factory discharge their tasks under safe working conditions. The National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria and the National Social Insurance Trust Fund are charged with enforcing industrial safety and ensuring that there is adequate compensation for employees in cases of violation. These relevant government agencies, particularly the NISCN, should also rouse themselves from slumber and take a serious look at the level of compliance with safety procedures at the Ogijo factory and the accident of April 11. Other indigenous and multinational companies found to be breaching the provisions of the Factory Act and violating employees’ rights anywhere in the country, should also be investigated and sanctioned. Drastic discharge of regulatory functions, improved monitoring of compliance and strict application of punitive measures, have become inevitable if the widely known disregard of standard safety procedures in factories and casualisation of employment – which some term ‘slavery’ – by mainly Indian, Lebanese and Chinese companies, must be curbed. Experts in industrial matters are of the view that the failure of regulation, monitoring and enforcement, as well as emasculation of unionism in such factories, explain the impunity with which the companies violate the basic safety requirements for running a factory, without facing consequences. The foreign nationals’ ability to circumvent the rules, of course with the help of some elements in the relevant agencies, is also a factor here. It must, however, be noted that not all Asian companies operating factories in the country engage in sharp practices. Many are genuinely active in various sectors where they are contributing to the growth of the economy. But, it behoves these foreign nationals whose countries’ image is being tarnished to call their compatriots to order. This can be handled at the consular level or through Diaspora associations. The Federal Government should also give more powers to the National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria to enable it discharge successfully   its statutory functions, including to “minimise avoidable death and injury by devising, recognising, encouraging and promoting methods and procedures leading to improved safety, protection and health among all persons in public and private places throughout Nigeria.” 