The Alumni Association of the Department of Mass Communication Department University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), has begun  plans to construct  the School of Communication and Media Studies. They are popularly referred to as  Jacksonites. The alumni unveiled the architectural design of the project to the university management on Tuesday. Presenting the design at the vice chancellor’s office, the alumni president, Prof Benjamin Ozumba, said the terrible state of the department inspired the association to erect a befitting structure that would make the department as the first School of Journalism in Sub-Saharan Africa. Prof Ozumba was accompanied by another alumnus Prof Pat Utomi who was represented by Mr. Simeon Idaewor. Said Ozumba: “I visited this department three years ago and was shocked to discover its terrible shape. I then  raised alarm amongst Jacksonites. We all agreed to build a more befitting structure that will survive generations. That is what we have started. The architectural drawing has been completed. “It’s going to be a mega project for generation yet unborn; something that will stand the test of time, a signature tomb and when you come to University of Nigeria, you will like to see the place”. According to Idaewor, the project will gulp no less than three billion naira billion naira. Edeawor, who is also the Managing Director of Fortune and Temperance Publishing Company,urged other alumni to join the association’s drive to leave an enduring legacy for the department. The CEO, Attah Associates Limited, Emeka Attah, who is the architect for the project, when completed, the building would house over 1500-capacity amphitheatre, another 500-capacity lecture theatre, and 200-capacity classroom to be used by both undergraduate and post graduate students, as well as assorted offices among others. “What we are doing now is to present to the VC the whole idea of the project and if we can secure a land for it. Currently, the site that they showed me is too small and I told them that small piece of land will not bring out the project they wanted” Architect Attah told CAMPUSLIFE. Speaking earlier, Head of Department of Mass Communication P. N. Nwokolo described the alumni body’s gesture as a way of giving back to the department. Responding, the vice-chancellor who was represented by his deputy (Administration), Prof. Charles Igwe, said:  “First of all, I want to congratulate the alumni association for this project which you are conceptualising. This is what an alumni body should look like. So, what you are doing now is what is expected. Now, if this kind of thing should find its way on the terrain of this university, the outlook of our institution will change. If other alumni associations begin to think in this direction, UNN will be a better place.”