Just five days to the Eid-il-Fitr celebration by Muslim faithful,  the market is yet to experience a boom in sales which comes with festive seasons like this. At different markets visited,  sellers lamented poor patronage of buyers as the price of some food items  have  been on the increase since the Ramadan started. This increase, they noted, has reduced the purchasing power of buyers coupled with the unfavourable economy which Nigerians are coping with. Food stuff such as rice, tomatoes,  pepper, Tartashe increased in price a week to Ramadan. At Daleko Rice Market, a bag of 50kg rice is sold for 14,000-N15,500. A basket of tomatoes at Mile 12 market is sold at N12,000-N15,000 depending on the freshness. A bag of pepper ranges from N8,000- 13,000 while a bag of tartashe goes  for N22,000. A tomatoes seller at Mile 12 Market  explained that the rainny season does not favour the crops and  may maintain a hike in price until the rainy season elapses. A derica measurement of melon (Egusi) at Ile-epo market is sold for N800 as against its initial price of N500. However, some food stuffs have reduced in price. At Ile-epo  Market,  a derica of Ogbono has reduced from N2,000 to N1,500. Also, beans has reduced.  A bag of Olotu, Oloyin, drum beans and Iron beans are sold for N16,000-N18,000, while other food stuffs maintain their relatively cheap prices. Sellers lamented that though some food stuffs are relatively cheap,  buyers still don’t patronise their foods. A yam flour seller was frustrated that the unfavourable economy has negatively affected her business. ‘’Before a paint of amala was sold for N700 but now it is N500 while the white amala goes for N300 per paint yet market has been poor because buyers are always complaining of no money’’. A retail rice seller at Oshodi Market also groaned over lean sales. “There is no money at all.  The increase in price of goods has made buyers to cut down on their needs. Even some of retail customers whom I sell whole sales to, have cut down on the quantity  they buy as they complain of poor sales too”. A rice seller at Daleko Market noted that the increase in the price of rice has left some shoppers to buy in measurements from retail sellers as they scarcely patronise the market. Mrs Taiwo,  who sells vegetables(ewedu leaf) at Ile-epo market was unhappy about the situation.  She said she had  to throw away some of her vegetables that went bad due to poor patronage. The poor sales also affected sellers of wares at Balogun and Oshodi Market. Many sellers noted that though  sales dwindle during Ramadan as a result of Muslim eating schedule, there has been a downward trend of buyers  who have minimised  their needs to cope with the harsh economy.  But they are hopeful to experience a good sale at last minute shopping for the Eid-el-fitr celebration.