Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday said over 20,000 traders have so far benefited from the TraderMoni and MarketMoni scheme in Anambra state. Osinbajo spoke at the palace of the Traditional Ruler of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe, during his visit to the state to promote the TraderMoni and MarketMoni at Eke-Awka Market in Awka and Ochanja Market in Onitsha. He noted that the scheme had practically gone round the country, with some receiving the MarketMoni. He explained that it was a Federal Government project where micro credits were provided to the lowest in the rank of the trading value chain. According to him: “Many of them are not given such facility or loan because nobody is sure that they will pay back or not. “Only the Government can guarantee that kind of facility and it is the Bank of Industry (BOI) that actually administers the loan.” The Vice President also expressed satisfaction with the implementation of the Federal Government’s Home-Grown-School-Feeding programme in the state. “As a matter of fact, we visited a lady in Awka, one of the cooks, who happened to be best cook of the programme in the community,” he added. He commended Achebe for his leadership style not just as the Chairman of the South-East Traditional Rulers Council but also an individual, whose statements were conciliatory rather than divisive. He reaffirmed Federal Government commitment to ensure that the country remain united and that all citizens, regardless of ethnicity, religion or political affiliation regard themselves as one. While inspecting the Second Niger Bridge, he reassured on Federal Government commitment to completing the project and the access roads. He said the government insisted on completing the project in view of its economic benefit to the zone and the entire country. Osinbajo explained: “The Second Niger Bridge is among the five projects where money has actually been set aside under a Presidential funding initiative to ensure completion. “So, we have no fears that it will be completed as promised and scheduled. “We are all brothers regardless of religion, ethnicity or political affiliation. “We want to make sure that even in terms of execution of projects, we are fair and just, which is the commitment that the president has made. “The President is committed to ensuring that he brings this to fulfillment.” Gov. Willie Obiano, lauded the Federal Government’s TraderMoni and MarketMoni initiatives, saying they would encourage the culture of repayment of loans and ensure prosperity of traders. He further commended the Federal Government’s zeal towards the ongoing Second Niger Bridge and the completed Zik Mausoleum. The Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Achebe, stressed the need for the federal government to set up a Board of Trustees to manage the affairs of Zik Mausoleum. The monarch said the Federal Government’s TraderMoni and MarketMoni initiatives should also be extended to local markets in Onitsha, noting that they contribute to the economy. “Ochanja Market has become a kind of international market of sort, but then we have our own local market women, who also need to benefit from these initiatives,” he said. The VP was accompanied on the visit by the state Governor, Chief Willie Obiano, Sen. Andy Uba (APC-Anambra South) and Chief George Muoghalu, the National Auditor of APC, among others.