Prince Anthony Olatujoye, frontline legal practitioner and public analyst, retired from the Central Bank of Nigeria as Legal Adviser/Director Legal Services. He is currently the Managing Partner, Difgland Partners, a law firm based in Abuja. In this interview with Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, he urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress to deliver on the three-point agenda which formed the fulcrum of their campaigns during the 2019 General Elections. Excerpts President Muhammadu Buhari will be sworn in for a fresh term of four years next week. What areas of governance would you want to see him give more attention to as he resumes a new term in office? President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC have a three-point agenda which formed the fulcrum of their campaigns during the 2019 elections, namely: security, economy and the anti-corruption crusade. The President needs to employ the best possible characters, resources and personnel to achieve the goals set out for himself in these three cardinal areas during his second term in office. Specifically, on job creation, I will suggest that the Federal Government should expand the ANCHOR Borrower Program of the CBN to the textile industry to accommodate cotton farmers in order to boost the cotton industry with a view to discouraging importation of textile materials into Nigeria. Again, the TraderMoni, and MarketMoni program which is being implemented by the Bank of Industry (BOI) should be improved upon and expanded so as to remove the notion that it was a mere electioneering ploy to win the presidential election. Let me add that the School Feeding Programme of the Federal Government should also be made to cover all parts of the country to enable every state to benefit from it. Furthermore, the President should improve the educational and health sectors with a view to bringing them at par with what obtains in developed countries. Again the “Executive Order 007” signed by the President on the 25th January 2019 and designed to improve infrastructure throughout Nigeria by which six (6) manufacturing and construction firms identified to handle nineteen (19) road projects in all the geo-political zones of the country should be followed to the letter. Nigerians are also warning the President against delaying the formation of his new cabinet. Do you share this concern? I absolutely agree with the call for promptness in the formation of the next Federal Executive Council (FEC). As a sitting President, he has all the resources to assemble the best hands, during his second term. And I salute him for his decision to form an all-inclusive government with a proviso that appointment of ministers will be based on merit. Nigeria is yearning for the actualisation of Mr. President’s promise. There is no gain for the country if the formation of the cabinet is unnecessarily delayed and I am optimistic that President Buhari is going to be as fast as possible in unveiling the men and women who will work with him this time around. The President reportedly told Nigerians shortly after he was declared the winner of the 2019 Presidential Elections that the next four years will be tough and his remarks have been subjected to different interpretations. What’s your view on President Buhari’s statement? I have no serious issue with the statement of the President as things are already tough in Nigeria. So, he may need to adopt a tough stance in putting to bed the socio, economic  political challenges bedeviling our nation. The next level should be seen as an approach needed to solve the embarrassing challenges of security, corruption, poverty/hunger, religious bigotry, economic issues, et al. Indeed, the issues on ground may require a stern approach, especially as regards economic reform, restructuring and good governance. It is on this score that I humbly suggest that the Nasir el Rufai Panel’s report on restructuring should be considered in order for the president to leave a good legacy at the end of his tenure in 2023. I believe the implementation of El-Rufai’s panel report will provide solutions to series of socio-economic challenges currently facing the country, including the insecurity and the killings being experienced in some parts of the country. The 2019 General Elections have come and gone. Would you want to assess the performance of INEC in the conduct of the elections nationwide? My position is that INEC has marginally improved on the 2015 elections. Although there were skirmishes in some parts of the South-South and a few other states, particularly the unfortunate killing of a House of Representatives member at Ibadan in Oyo State, it is noteworthy that during the 2019 elections, opposition parties won some states generally regarded as the strongholds of the ruling party without the usual do or die approach associated with previous administrations. Overall, the conduct and outcome of the 2019 elections revealed what I would call “work in progress” in view of some setbacks which I believe the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill of 2018 will, when passed into law, undoubtedly address at future elections. As earlier stated, there were skirmishes in the South-South and a few states but such acts of brigandage were not as high as being suggested by some people. However, there is a need to curb such unfortunate acts in future elections. It is suggested that INEC and the government at all levels should adopt more proactive means of preventing such avoidable fatalities by putting in place well-trained, incorruptible security agents to provide adequate security at poling units throughout the country. Finally, Nigerian voters, politicians and other stakeholders must demonstrate a high sense of responsibility if we must match advanced democracies in election matters. The result of the election should be seen as the wish of Nigerians. It is normal that where two or more people contest an election, only one person is bound to win. When put in context, the presidential election has been won and lost, the winner being the incumbent president, INEC’s position on the issue, inures until and unless the court decides otherwise. I hasten to add that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is seen to have performed reasonably well at the elections, even as he lost by a margin of almost 4 million votes. He gave a good account of himself at the presidential election. As it is, the outcome of the presidential election is now being contested in court, so I won’t want to say too much. Do you think Atiku and PDP’s decision to challenge Buhari and the APC’s victory in court is a good move? Under the relevant provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and the Electoral Act of 2010 (as Amended), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has the right to seek redress in court if he perceives any infraction of the electoral law and process during the election which affected his rights. However, I believe Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (or the PDP) does not need any further advice having filed a petition before a Presidential Election Tribunal.