The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of Jamatul Nasril Islam (JNI), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has cautioned clerics to avoid messages that inimical to the peaceful co-existence of the country. In a statement released by JNI Secretary-General Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, Sultan Abubakar said “this period should be a sober reflection time for us all and make the necessary amend, in order to seek Allah’s pleasure.” Ramadan being the month of Tafseer (Exegesis) of the Glorious Qur’an, he enjoined respected Mufasseerun (scholars engaged in the exegesis of Glorious Qur’an) to put the citizenry on the pedestal of goodness and be reminded of the consequences of vices. “In addition, the Mufasseerun are implored to conduct their respective Tafseer sessions in line with the Qur’an and Sunnah of the Noble Prophet, using courteous language and kind words. They should as well shun bad preaching during the Tafseer sessions,” he said. JNI called on the Muslims to redouble their respective efforts in being more God-conscious through punctual observance of the five daily and Taraweeh prayers congregationally, frequent recitation of the Glorious Qur’an, ardent supplications, as well as continued remembrance of Allah. According to him, Ramadan is a month of servitude and dedication to Allah, “thus we must collectively strive to earn Allah’s pleasure, and forgiveness in this blessed month. Slacking in performing good deeds is the enemy of time. Therefore, we must be more dedicated to the worship of Allah now and beyond, as there is no better time than the month of Ramadan.” ” Overtime , JNI ” he said, “has been calling on Muslims to fervently pray for the restoration of security, peace, stability, progress and development in Nigeria. We once again reiterate same call, as the situation seems to be deteriorating with armed banditry, kidnappings, theft and abject poverty in the increase. Therefore, Governments at all levels as well as individuals who have the wherewithal are called upon to extend benevolent gestures – such as alms giving and supports to the indigents in severe need, as well as millions of IDPs spread across the country. This is the most appropriate time to show compassion and of course, the needy would want to see such assistance now. Moreover, it is more rewarding. Similarly, JNI uses this medium to remind leaders at all levels that success shall only come their respective ways when they rollout friendly policies to the citizenry. At the moment, the outcry is loud and clear!”