No fewer than three persons  were  reported dead  in  a communal  clash between Gudum Sayawa and Gudum Hausawa Communities in Bauchi. The Nation gathered that the genesis of the clash was on  Thursday 10th of March, when youths in Gudum area of Baruch Local Government had misunderstanding  among themselves. The misunderstanding later degenerated into communal clash which led to reprise attacks between the  youths from Gudum Sayawa and Gudum Hausawa Communities on Friday. However, following the civil unrest, the Bauchi State Government has imposed a dusk to dawn curfew with immediate effect to prevent further escalation. In a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Mohammed Nadada Umar,  the curfew will take place  with immediate effect from 6:00pm to 6:00am until further notice in the affected  Communities. It reads; “It would be recalled that on Thursday the 9th May, 2019 at about 09:00 am some youth in Gudum Area of Bauchi Local Government had misunderstanding among themselves. This subsequently escalated into clashes between the youth from Gudum Sayawa and Gudum Hausawa Communities, which resulted into physical skirmishes.” “However, immediate intervention of the security agencies brought peace in the area. Unfortunately today, during Friday Prayers there was a reprisal and a counter reprisal which led to the death of three  persons. “Accordingly, in order to prevent further escalation of the situation, Government has decided to impose a dusk to dawn curfew with immediate effect from 6:00pm to 6:00am until further notice in the following Communities Gudum Fulani Gudum HausawaGudum Sayawa and Bigi,” “The people of the affected communities are therefore advised to strictly observe the restriction. Any person or group of people found to be violating this will be decisively dealt with” The Bauchi State Police Command while confirming the incident has said investigations are still ongoing as the command will do everything possible to ensure that all perpetrators of the crisis are brought to book. The Police Public Relation Officer, PPRO, Kamal Abubakar said adequate security personnel were already deployed to those areas to protect lives and property.