Three All Progressives Congress (APC) senators from the Northeast are in the race for Senate President. Dr. Ahmed Lawan from Yobe State has been endorsed by the ruling party. Former Gombe State Governor Danjuma Goje is not mounting an aggressive campaign, but he has not stepped down. Ali Ndume, who has unfolded his ambition, is selling his manifesto to the 109 senators-elect. Can he make it? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the three-horse race. Who succeeds Senate President Bukola Saraki next month? The race for the Senate president is gathering momentum. Where the pendulum will swing cannot be predicted. In the race are three formidable All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains and ranking senators who are household names in Nigeria. Their fate will be decided by 109 senators during the election of the National Assembly principal officers. The Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmed Lawan, appears to be leading the pack. But, observers say it is debatable. He has been endorsed by the ruling party, based on the firm belief that the Ninth Assembly should maintain a clean break from the executive/legislative faceoff. In 2015, he was the APC candidate. But, the rug was pulled off his feet by Saraki, who had rallied PDP senators behind his ambition. Former Governor Danjuma Goje appears evasive, trying to conceal his moves because he does not want to be seen as opposing the party’s position. He is hugely popular. As a party elder, he had the opportunity of spearheading the efforts that led to the APC victory in his state in the last governorship election. For him, the race is not a do or die affairs. But, he cannot be ignored because he has the pedigree. The third contender, Ali Ndume (Borno South), is not leaving anything to chances. After teaching at the Ramat Polytechnic, Maiduguri  for 20 years, he was elected into the House of Representatives to represent Chibol/Damboa/Gwoza Constituency in 2003. Since then, he has not looked back. He was the House Majority Leader between 2007 and 2011. Despite the stiff opposition to his senatorial ambition in 2011 by former Governor Modu Sheriff, he was elected on the platform of the PDP. He joined the APC in 2014. Between 2015 and 2017, he was the Senate Leader. But, his career in the Upper Chamber for two years was full of tension. Although he was suspended from the Senate for eight months, he regained his seat after the court judgment vindicated him. Ignoring Ndume may be risky to his co-contestants because of his antecedents. He is a political warrior of sorts.From a remote background, the son of old soldier Ali Ahmadu rose to become a senator. Thanking God for the feat, he said; “This is my fifth election. By 2023, I will be 20 years old in the National Assembly. I am a son of a nobody who became somebody without knowing anybody.” Ndume’s aspiration is taking the shape of another epic struggle. He told reporters in Lagos that he is getting support because he looks like the oppressed. His supporters appear strategic as they are not campaigning for him on the pages of newspapers. Therefore, there is a great deal of concealment. But, giving a hint about his support base, he said he is reaching out to the 65 APC senators-elect and their 43 PDP colleagues. The PDP senators are strategic to the election as they are likely to turn out bloc vote. Acknowledging that the APC leadership has endorsed Lawan, he said power resides with the Almighty God. Ndume exuded confidence, saying that he is in the race to win. He said: “The party is supreme only when the supremacy conforms with legality. The constitution is supreme over the party. The party is recommending someone, but it is not depriving me of my right to contest. If the party decides the right thing, we will follow. Anything that is contrary to the constitution is null and void.” Ndume said he had consulted widely with APC stakeholders, including National Chairman Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and the national leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, stressing that the Commander-In-Chief is not opposed to his aspiration. However, he noted that the governor of his home state, Borno, Alhaji Shettima Kashim, is backing Lawan because the party recommended him. If elected, Ndume promised to restore the dignity of the Senate, restructure the Office of Senate President in a bid to reduce its privileges, foster transparency and accountability, unite the National Assembly and promote good legislations in aide of President Buhari’s Next Level Agenda. He also promised to deepen oversight functions, improve legislative staff welfare, cooperate with the executive in an atmosphere of interdependence, and hasten budgetary passage. Ndume flaunted his skills and experience spanning 16 years as a member of the House of Representatives and Senate. He explained that he decided to participate in the race because of his opposition to imposition, adding that democracy must prevail at all times. Ndume decried the presonalisation of the office of Senate President. In his view, the office should not be above the senators because the occupant is a senator. He added: “The National Assembly as an institution is drifting from what it is supposed to be. The National Assembly comprise of 360 members of the House of Representatives and 109 members of Senate. The Senate should be a stabilising institution of democracy. It is important that it should have a good leadership. “The Senate is being eroded. The institution is being personalised. I want to be Senate President, not Senators’ President. The Senate President prsides. Yet, he loses his voting right, except there is a tie. The Ninth Assembly should have an agenda. I want a Senate that is independent, but working inter-dependently with the executive without compromising the constitution.” The former Senate Leader reflected on the Constituency Project Bill, which he initiated in the Upper Chamber, adding that the objective is to ensure the spread of dividends of democracy to the grassroots. To many, Ndume is independently minded. He is bold and brave. His foes say that he is pompous. But his fans differ, saying that the senator is only brutally frank. How does Ndume respond to this perception about him? He acknowledged that he may have courted controversy in the course of standing firm and being frank. But, he stressed that devotion to truth and justice has been the hallmark of his life. Ndume said: “My problem is that I am frank to a fault. I tried to speak the truth from my heart. I say as I see it because I am what I am. Dishonesty, as a 60 years old, is not in my character. I have suffered for it. It is better to stand for the right thing, even if you are alone. It is good to be alone in truth, instead of joining the crowd.” The senator spoke on his previous political battles, which he won, assuring that his ambition to lead the National Assembly will see the light of the day. He said: “The party says it is Ahmed Lawan. But, the Lord gives power. Is it the party that gives power or God? It is God. The election will be decided by the senators-elect. By God’s grace, I will win the election. If I don’t, that means God has something better for me than the Senate President.” Describing himself as a loyal party man, Ndume added: “I am a loyal party man, I have stood with the president. I lost my position as Leader because of my principles. I was suspended for six months; extended by two months. I went to court and I won. The money for eight months was the highest savings I had. “I consulted with the president, the national leader, Asiwaju Tinubu and other leaders. We are 65 senators in the APC and the president is father of all of us. Constitutionally, all of us are qualified to contest. Zoning ws used to prune down the number, although it is not in the co9nstitution. That was why Rochas Okorocha contestd for the presidency in 2015. I have written the party; they have not asked me not to contest. Oshiomhole said the party only rcommndd Lawan and will not stop anybody from contesting.” Ndume also said he would expect the Senate to conduct the election, using open secret ballot system, in accodance with the Senate Standing Orders. He maintained: “I support open secret ballot system. That is what the standing rules of the Senate says. I know the election will be conducted in accordance with the constitution and the Senate Standing Orders.” On whether he is trying to lobby PDP senators ahead of the election, Ndume said: “There is o PDP or APC Senate. All senators are Nigerians. The response from APC and PDP senators are encouraging. I have the number of 109 senators. I am not looking for endorsement; I am looking for votes.” But, how far can Ndume go? There is division in the APC over the proposed election. APC senators are divided over Lawan’s endorsement. Yet, he remains the leading candidate. Ndume is targeting senators who are against the Senate Leader. A source said Ndume’s deep links with the PDP parliamentary family may be an asset.  “He has human relations and he is free with many senators. Knowing that PDP senators will play a critical role in the election, he is courting them seriously. He may benefit from personal relations,” said a senator-elect. Another lawmaker said: “Money may play a role, underground, and I am sure the three senators are preparing.” An associate of Ndume, who spoke on a condition of anonymity, said: “I can predict that he will not step down. He will contest. Except there is a presidential advice that he should not carry on, he will pursue his ambition with determination.”     