Three high chiefs in Ilawe Ekiti, headquarters of Ekiti Southwest Local Government of Ekiti State have landed themselves in trouble for allegedly washing their “dirty linen in public.” The high chiefs incurred the wrath of the monarch, the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, for “engaging one another in supremacy battle and distorting the town’s history.” The Nation gathered on Sunday that Oba Alabi is planning to wield the big stick on the high chiefs to prevent a future occurrence of such controversy in his kingdom. Oba Alabi, who presided over an emergency meeting on the matter at his palace, expressed disgust that the concerned chiefs took the battle to the media which has embarrassed his traditional cabinet, the Alawe-in-Council. The first class monarch said the outbursts of the erring chiefs on the performance of traditional rites in a section of the media portrayed the kingdom in bad light. According to a communique issued at the end of the emergency meeting signed by Oba Alabi, the Council described the outbursts of the three chiefs on certain aspects of Ilawe history as “unfounded, reckless and the height of indiscretion.” The affected chiefs are the Elemo of Okeloye, High Chief Adeolu Asebioge; the Elemo of Okeemo, High Chief Gbenga Agbona and the Elero of Okeemo, High Chief  Olufemi Akinwumi. The communique reads: “The Alawe In Council in Ilawe Ekiti at an emergency meeting has described the stories in some newspapers and outbursts of three of the community’s chiefs on certain aspects of the history of the town as unfounded, reckless and the height of indiscretion. “The council, therefore, disowned such outbursts by the concerned chiefs. “The Council pledged its unalloyed loyalty to the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, HRM, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, Afuntade 1. “The Council condemned the erring chiefs, the Elemo of Okeloye, High Chief Adeolu Asebioge,   the Elemo of Okeemo, High chief Gbenga Agbona and the Elero of Okeemo, High Chief Olufemi Akinwumi for their struggle for supremacy by embarking on press war on the performance of traditional rites. “The concerned chiefs were doing such for self-recognition, aggrandizement and unnecessary ego boosting. “The Council which is made up of all quarter head chiefs in the town urged members of the public to disregard the publications made by the three chiefs as they were not the true representations of Ilawe tradition and history. “The three Chiefs had gone to the press each claiming superiority over another on the performance of traditional rites during the installation and the passing of an Oba. “The Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, HRM Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi noted that the erring chiefs would be sanctioned in line with the tradition and custom of the community for their recent sacrilegious utterances to the press. “The Alawe warned that heavier sanctions await any chief who commits infractions against the tradition and custom of Ilawe Ekiti in future”.