Kaduna State Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai flouted constitution in the continued detention of Adara leaders, Christian lawyers have declared. This position was taken after the President-in-Council of the Christian Lawyers Fellowship of Nigeria (CLASFON) meeting in Aba, Abia State. Adara leaders were arrested in connection with the sectarian crises between the Adara people and Fulani community in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna State. In a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting by the National President and National Secretary of the council, Arome Okwori and Olatunji Omole, the lawyers lamented high rate of insecurity in Nigeria, and asked President Muhammadu Buhari to take security more seriously. It reads: “The Quarterly Meeting of the President-in-Council, a body comprised of the National Executive Officers, Chairmen and Secretaries of all the 46 branches and Heads and Secretaries of the Directorates of CLASFON held from the 9th to 11th May, 2019 to deliberate on issues concerning the Nation and CLASFON. “The meeting deliberated on the alarming rate of insecurity in our Nigeria, unconstitutional means of driving Government policy by Kogi State Governor; Recent General Elections – outcome and post-election issues; Infringement of the Human Rights of the people of Adara community of Kaduna State and continued detention of Leah Sharibu. “CLASFON observes with dismay the flagrant disregard of the Constitution in the arrest and continued detention without charge of the traditional and community leaders of the Adara Chiefdom in Kajuru Local Area of Kaduna State. “CLASFON calls on the Governor of Kaduna State to respect the rule of law as enshrined in the Nigerian Constitution in compliance with his oaths of allegiance and of office. “CLASFON is saddened at the continuous downward slide of the state of security in our nation as evidenced in various cases of killing of innocent and hapless citizens and non-citizens whose security and protection is the primary function of government. Incidences also abound in the daily kidnap and abduction of citizens and non-citizens in most States of the Federation. “CLASFON calls on the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to take seriously the responsibility of the protection of the lives and properties of all residents of Nigeria as provided by the Constitution and other relevant laws. “CLASFON observes with dismay the neglect of the welfare of the staff of Kogi State Judiciary by the non-payment of their salaries resulting in the deterioration and near collapse of the justice system in Kogi State. “CLASFON also observes the unconstitutional means deployed in driving Government Policy by the Kogi State Governor. “We view steps taken in this direction as a flagrant usurpation of the powers conferred on constitutional organ and tantamount to dictatorial despotism. “The said action of the Governor led to the strike that has shut down the courts for several months thereby denying common citizens’ access to justice. “We therefore demand that the Governor of Kogi State should follow constitutional means in driving governance since Nigeria is a constitutional democracy. “CLASFON observes with dismay the widespread irregularities and total disregard for the rules of engagement as contained in extant laws by major stakeholders that characterised the General elections conducted recently by the Independent National Election Commission (INEC). “We urge the Federal Government of Nigeria to heed the call for electoral reforms with a view to giving Nigeria an electoral system that will dignify Nigeria in the comity of truly democratic nations.” It added: “CLASFON further calls on members of the recently constituted Election Petition Tribunals at all levels who are perceived to have personal interest by reason of their personal affiliations to recuse themselves in the interest of justice, good conscience and fair play. “CLASFON observes with grave concern the persistent failure of the government to work assiduously to facilitate the release of Leah Sharibu and other abducted school girls. “CLASFON calls upon the Federal Government of Nigeria to leave no stone unturned to secure the release of Leah Sharibu and other girls in the custody and captivity of the Book Haram insurgents.”  