The Delta state governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has been charged to appoint young, dynamic and ICT-savvy Deltan people into his cabinet as he starts off his second tenure in office on May 29, 2019. The call was made on Sunday, at the inauguration ceremony of the newly elected executive of the Niger Delta Youth Movement (NDYM), Delta state chapter, which is the umbrella body of all Niger Delta youth groups in Nigeria, at Ifiekporo town, Warri South council area of the state. The newly inaugurated chairman, Comrade Monoyo Edon, in his acceptance speech, said that Delta State parades vibrant youths with modern knowledge of governance from across all ethnic groups in the state that can serve excellently well in the second administration of the governor. “As this administration winds to an end in a few days, (on May 29, 2019) we would like to urge Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to appoint young and vibrant technocrats, who truly know the onus of their trade, to drive his cabinet and agenda. Delta State has enough resources to be the leading light in Nigeria in terms of infrastructural development, manufacturing, Information and Communication Technology. Delta State should not be among ‘wealthy yet docile states’ run on analogue ideas”, he advised. Comrade Edon, who frowned at the practice of sacrificing qualitative governance on the alter of political compensation, said “the period of politicking is over. The practice where political gladiators are given sensitive appointments as compensation for their roles during electioneering must be discontinued. “Your Excellency, your second tenure should be about qualitative governance as obtainable in Lagos state and other states where technocrats are running government”, he noted. In separate remarks, invited guests and leaders of the group advised the new executive to carry every youth of the five ethnic nationalities along while maintaining political neautrality. The honorable member representing Warri South Constituency 1 at the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon. Shola Daibo, advised the leadership of the group to kill tribalism, saying “we should not allow ethnicity and politics change us. Go about your activities with integrity and equity”. Comr Joe Jackson, National President, Chief Godspower Odenema, former National President and Comr. Monday Agbeyi, former State Secretary all of NDYM, advised the newly elected executive not to betray the founding tenets of the group, which had united them for almost twenty years Chief Odenema said “bear in mind that you represent not just your ethnic group but also the five oil producing ethnic groups of Delta State. You have the fundamental task of uniting every youth with programmes and empowerment benefits. Niger Delta Youth Movement (NDYM) has chapters in the nine states of the Niger Delta with national office in Port Harcourt.