National Image International Magazine, a top-notch media, famed for promoting good governance and sustainable development, in collaboration with various allied organisations, has conferred on Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, the Best Performing Governor in Nigeria award for his performance during his administration 2015 – 2019. The award was presented to the governor, at the special farewell Photo Exhibition on Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode Achievements, in Lagos, on Sunday. At the event, The Head International Correspondent  of the organization, Paul Smith, said the meritorious award is in recognition of Governor Ambode’s “ground-breaking performance as the foremost Nigerian governor with the largest number of road projects, youth empowerment, skill acquisition, infrastructure development, small and medium scale industry empowerments for indigenes of the state, as well as promotion of peace and security and human capital development, which have altogether created prosperity for all Lagoasians within the record time of virtually 4 years that Governor Ambode has been in office. Smith also stated that the decision to confer on Ambode with “this well deserving award was taken after extensive research to see what all the governors in the 36 states have done in the past three and a half years, in five major areas, namely: infrastructure development, human capital development, promotion of peace and security, as well as nearness to the grassroots people, and execution of people-oriented social service programmes that directly impact on the land and lives of people in each state. He also reiterated that, “the award is in recognition of Governor Ambode as the governor with the highest number of infrastructure development projects in Lagos state. “Governor Ambode is the foremost governor in terms of being the governor who most frequently visits project fields, completing major projects as well as kick-starting grassroot links roads, inspecting and commissioning new projects, with President Mohammad Buhari visiting some of the projects recently; thereby, creating comfort and prosperity for Lagosians through his ‘SMART’ administration.” Mr, Seyi Bamigbade, a Consultant and Politian who received the meritorious award on behalf of Governor Ambode, who was inevitably attending to other important state functions, said Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has laid a good legacy for other upcoming Governors to build on. “Lagos as the fifth largest economy in Africa, can be likened to a country. With the momentum which Gov. Ambode has put in place, Lagos might soon emerge as the biggest economy in Africa. It is home to almost every religion, tribe and colour and accommodates the largest pool of black people all over the world, including Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, who is from Nigeria and has a home in Lagos,” he said. Seyi thanked the participants for finding time to honour the occasion. He said that the Idea of the Photo Exhibition in appreciating the effort of the Governor for his good governance and achievements in impacting on the African continent, is commendable “We have to connect, escalate and cultivate both intra and inter African interests and connection, continue discussion and conversation on good governance. I will make sure the plaque get’s to the Governor,” he promised.