Nigerian Breweries Plc has reassured consumers of its commitment to stay consumer focused even as it acknowledges the challenging business environment and further anticipation of increase in excise duty on alcoholic beverages. Addressing a media conference in Lagos, the leading alcoholic brewery also disclosed that it has achieved 57 per cent of its 60 per cent 2020 target for local sourcing of raw materials for production. During the pre-AGM media briefing recently, the Managing Director Jordi Borrut Bel said that despite the difficult business environment which is prevalent in most countries that the company will still take cognizance of the financial condition of Nigerian consumers before taking any decision on pricing. Speaking on the increase in excise duty in alcoholic beverage last year, he said, “The federal government plans another wave of excise duty increase on beer. This is expected to come into effect in the middle of the year. The effect of the increase would be a rise in the rate from N30 per litre introduced last year to N35 per liter.” What this means to NB noted Jordi Bel is, “It would mean an increased excise duty cost of about 67 per cent over a 12 month period that is from N21 per liter in the first half of 2018 to N35 per liter in the second half of 2019.” However, he said that in view of the pressure on consumer purchasing power that it would be difficult to pass on the increased cost arising from the duty increase to consumers. “We shall not just increase the prices of our products because of the increase in excise duty. We shall look at many things before taking any decision on pricing. Many things must be taken into consideration. NB is confident of a positive financial year despite the challenging operating environment for manufacturing in the country.” Indeed, the brewing firm observed that the operating environment in the first quarter (Q1) 2019, remained challenging and similar to 2018, but expressed confidence in its clear strategy to deliver good return on investment for all its stakeholders. The brewer in 2018 incurred N25.8 billion as excise duty expenses, for which the Managing Director, said company results for the year were adversely impacted by the increase excise duty rates. This is in addition to a challenging environment and the double digit inflation rate, which he said is penalizing the business community. Borrut Bel however said the Nigerian economy presents challenges and opportunities, while also restating the company’s commitment to winning with Nigeria. “We want to win with the Nigerian societies and communities because we believe in Africa’s biggest market with a young and dynamic population showing promising indicators for growth. We also believe that the country’s demographics will play a huge role in the future,” he said. He said going forward, the company would priorities developmental efforts through its three pillars of growth. “These include expanding leadership in premium brands, build scale in mainstream to drive malt growth by leveraging on innovation and improving end to end productivity,” he said. Meanwhile, the Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Sade Morgan, said the company has achieved 57 per cent of its 60 per cent 2020 target for local sourcing of raw material for production. She added that plans are underway to take its current 57 per cent local sourcing of its raw materials to 60 per cent, saying the company would be working with Nigerian farmers to achieve the feat. Morgan also restated the company’s commitment to enhance renewable energy, saying that NB in 2018 commenced the reuse of biogas generated from its effluent treatment plants for thermal heat generation in its boilers. She said the company has also impacted over 20,000 people since the inception of its advocating responsible consumption campaign Echoing similar sentiments, the Marketing Director, Emmanuel Oriakhi, on his part assured that Nigeria Breweries would continue to produce top quality brands to meet the ever changing needs of the Nigerian consumer, stressing that with the help of its robust portfolio, it would ensure consumers get value for their hard earned money. “The quality of our brands cannot be questioned anywhere in the world and we are here for the long haul and we will continue to introduce innovative and quality products for the Nigerian markets,” he said. On the company’s turnover for last year, Mr Jordi Borrut Bel, disclosed that, the company recorded a turnover of N324 billion compared to N345 billion in 2017. He said that operating profits declined from N57 billion to N37 billion, due to higher Excise Duties and other operating costs.