18 persons killed by bandits and kidnappers in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State were on Wednesday buried at the cemetery in Katsina after a brief Islamic prayer on their behalf at the Emir’s Palace The prayer session, which started at 11.00am, was led by the Chief Imam of Katsina Central Mosque, Alhaji Mustapha Ahmed. Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmuminu kabir Usman and other title holders in the Emirate Council attended the session. A file up of the corpses were laid in front of the crowd at the palace When The Nation visited the hospital mosque earlier in the morning, hospital attendants were seen washing the dead copses and loading them into the waiting Toyota Canter Motor vehicle bearing the inscription ’’Katsina Emirate Council’’. The exercise was carried out amidst tight security provided by the Police. The corpses were later draped in white clothes and rapped with brown mats before being loaded into the vehicle. Sarki Ruma Katsina and District Head of Batsari, Alhaji Tukur Muazu Ruma, who briefed newsmen at the Emir’s Palace, said the Police have lost touch of the security situation in Katsina State. He called on President Muhammad Buhari to replace the Police operatives with soldiers with marching orders to clear the menace within a given time. He said: ‘’The situation requires urgent government attention and solution to prevent the people from taking the laws into their hands and resorting to self help.” He called on Katsina citizens to remain law abiding and trust the current administration to provide adequate security for them. Cantoma Batsari, Alhaji Manir Muazu Ruma, dismissed the presence of ‘’Operation Puff Arder’’ squad in the local government Area as ineffective and called for their replacement with soldiers. He said: ’’The police are there with their limitations, they are not taking action. They don’t respond promptly when we invite them. “They are not flexible, robust and mobile. The soldiers are never involved, we only see them pass only after the incidents has happened’’