The Acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, Tuesday briefed the Senate on what the Force is doing to stem the spate of terrorism, armed banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery in parts of the country. The briefing which lasted about three hours was held behind closed doors due to the sensitive nature of the issues under discussion. The apparent breakdown of law and order in parts of some northern states was said to have topped the exchange between the lawmakers and the IGP. A source that was part of the discussion described the presentation of the police boss as “grim.” The source who said that “it was a session of reality for us” insisted that “those at the helms affairs must act fast to rescue the country from looming danger.” He said that “questions were asked and answered by the police chief to the best of his ability I suppose.” He refused to go into details “because the issues are so grim to be discussed on the pages of newspapers. It is a matter of taking steps to address teething security challenges confronting the health of the nation and its security network.” He said, “You can see how the Senate President spoke about the appearance of the police chief. We have to play safe because it is security matter. “One thing that must be done and done urgently is that action must be taken where necessary to rescue the nation from the stifling grip of kidnappers and armed bandits. There may be no time to waste.” The Senate, had last week, invited the police boss to brief it on what the Police is doing to address mounting insecurity in parts of the country. The invitation of the police boss was sequel to a motion by Senator Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central), who drew the attention of his colleagues to increasing cases of banditry and kidnapping especially along Abuja-Kaduna highway. Immediately the IGP arrived at the National Assembly around 11.22am, he was ushered into the Senate chamber around 11.25am by the Clerk to the Senate in the company of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Affairs, Senator Ita Enang. The Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan, had earlier moved that the Order Paper should be rearranged to enable the Senate take the briefing of the IGP first before any other item on the Order Paper. The prayer was unanimously adopted. The briefing lasted till 2.45pm. Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who presided, said that the Senate in a closed session was briefed by police boss on armed banditry, terrorist activities, kidnapping, armed robbery and other security challenges confronting the country. Saraki said: “The Senate in a closed door session was briefed by the acting Inspector-General of Police on armed banditry, kidnappings, robberies, terrorist activities and other security challenges in the country. “The Nigerian Police should ameliorate the situation and the challenges. We hereby hope to address the menace squarely. “He (IGP) promised to address the areas that have to do with disciplining of officers that have been found wanting. Efforts will be taken to improve on the situation particularly on the Abuja-Kaduna axis and also on areas of intelligence and technology. “The Senate also promised and is committed that it is ready at any time to give assistance to provide adequate funding that is required in order to make the police to be able to combat the necessary threats to our security.” On his part, Adamu told reporters after the briefing that the police would recruit 10,000 officers and men this year to beef up the capability of the police in the face of mounting challenges. The police boss also assured that any policeman found culpable in the alleged raping and molesting ladies arrested at various nightclubs will not be spared. Adamu said: “We are putting in place a strategy that works. The Senate has appreciated what we have presented and they are willing to enhance the strategy. The Senate has agreed to support all our activities to make the country secure. “Policing is dynamic. The number of personnel we have can never be enough. But the government is trying to recruit every year. This year, we have 10,000 to recruit. We will meet up with the required number. “The information you got about giving N100 billion to herdsmen to stop killing is from the social media. There was no discussion like that. The source of that information is not yet known. It is somebody’s imagination. “The raiding of nightclubs in Abuja was done by FCT task force. They came out to do their job and they reached out to police to support them and we did that. Women were arrested and convicted. It means that they committed an offence “The allegation that some policemen raped and molested them, we will set up a panel to investigate the issues. Anybody caught will face the law.”