Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, former deputy-governor of Lagos State has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to make use of more decent Nigerians as he resumes for a new term in office. She implored the President to be swift in putting together his new cabinet.
In this interview with Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, Ojikutu, while advocating the execution of people found guilty of corruption henceforth in the country as a form of deterrence to others, commended the President’s anti-corruption crusade and hoped that the country would soon be rid of corrupt practices. Excerpts WHAT are your expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term? I congratulate President Buhari on his reelection. We also hope he will be able to fulfill his promise of making Nigeria clean, that’s talking about his anti-corruption campaign. I believe that once corruption is successfully tackled, the economy of Nigeria will pick up. I believe that it is not that our economy is that bad but too much corruption is stifling the economy on many fronts, and that is why there has been no industrial growth and commerce is not thriving the way it ought to. I’m praying that Buhari will set up committees made up of decent people, people of integrity to oversee and help him to expose those things that pose as cog in the   wheel of progress of Nigeria’s economy. Nigeria does not lack policies. We have so many policies, but the question is this, are these policies being implemented or not? Are they being implemented the right way to give the desired impacts? These are some of the tasks the committee members will be saddled with. These committees can also help the EFCC to monitor policies that are being implemented. Once you can curb corruption, there will be a boost in the economy and life will be more meaningful and abundant for Nigerians, especially the masses. Many Nigerians are saying that President Buhari should not delay in announcing his cabinet. What’s your take on that? I agree with those who are saying that President Buhari should ensure that his cabinet is quickly put in place for the task ahead. It is very important to have a cabinet in place as soon as he is inaugurated into office. Then I will advise him that when he is assembling the team that will work with him for this second term, everything should be done on the basis of merit and competence. It should not be job for the boys. He should look for highly skilled and qualified people and people of integrity that can help him turn the economy round. He should look for patriots who will help him actualise his vision and goal of taking Nigeria to the next level. He should look for people who believe in one Nigeria and not for people whose loyalty to the nation is in doubt. On the issue of the fight against corruption which President Buhari has been spearheading, suggestions are being made that for the fight against corruption in Nigeria that we may need to adopt radical measure like death penalty to curb the vice as it is being done in China and some other nations of the world, do you subscribe to such an idea? If you jail anybody for corruption in Nigeria, the next administration will release that person, and this is what has been happening in Nigeria. But I believe that if some people find to be corrupt after thorough investigations are made to face the firing squad or are hanged, this will serve as a deterrent. We need to start making examples. But like I said earlier, thorough investigations must be carried out and the trial must also be fair. It should not be a case of vendetta or persecution. Due process must be followed. What is the way out of the menace of kidnappers, bandits and insurgents in some parts of the country? Some people are linking some of these security challenge issue to unemployment, but I believe that when the economy improves some of these things will be naturally resolved. Federal Government should act fast to make the economy work better. But at the same time, we should think deeply over some of these things happening. There is no smoke without fire. The Federal Government should do more investigations into what is happening. We should not rule out the possibility of a third force also trying to make things a bit difficult for the government. Those in charge of the nation’s security architecture and intelligence should do everything possible to nip in the bud all these vices, including kidnappings and banditry. We need to make Nigeria secure and safe for the economy to thrive and also to attract foreign investors. Some are suggesting the idea of a state police as way out of the insecurity challenge, how do you react to that? State police is what some also refer to as community policing. There is nothing wrong with it, but it is a double-edged sword, state police can be turned into instruments of terror against perceived opponents by state governors. State police is a good idea, but the fear of it being abused by state governors is there. State police is ideal but the question is this, are we matured to have it in a clime like ours where some state governors behave like emperors. Do you share the positions of those calling for restructuring? True practice of federalism is not only ideal but will help Nigeria to attain the desired greatness as it was in the First Republic when each region was thriving and developing without interference by the central or what we call federal government. The regions were autonomous, but what we are practicing today is unitary system which the military bequeathed to us. True practice of federalism is what we should return to. There is no region or geo-political zone that is not endowed with natural resources. There is no reason for any zone to fear. The natural resources are there for them to thrive and excel. I still remember with nostalgia the era of groundnut pyramid in Kano, cotton, skin and hides in the North. All these were being exported in commercial quantities. The North is also a food basket to the nation through agriculture. In those days, the West was also known for cocoa production, and it was through the export of cocoa that the then Western Region was able to achieve many firsts including building the first TV station in Africa. The then Eastern Region was also known for coal and rubber production. But the discovery of oil and exploitation of oil on a commercial scale made us to abandon all these. There is no region that is not blessed with natural resources; what is left is for us to harness these resources for the common good of all. Restructuring is not only ideal for us; it will help us to move forward. It will also help President Buhari to achieve his goal of taking Nigeria to the next level with ease. Also, we should set up the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Its set up will help the nation a lot. The commission should be fashioned after the Truth Reconciliation Commission in South Africa where those that did wrong during the apartheid period came out to confess to their evil deeds, and made restitution. In the same line, people who stole Nigerian money and are afraid that they may be caught, jailed and be shamed will come to the commission and be given immunity from prosecution after they have coughed out what they have looted.