A forum titled: AgriTech Lab, aimed at boosting agribusiness startups, has been held in Lagos. It was organised by MyFarmbase Africa to equip youths with skills to explore opportunities in the agribusiness, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  HOW to boost agribusiness topped discussions at a forum themed Agritech Lab,   hosted by MyFarmbase Africa, a youth empowerment outfit, in Lagos. Experts addressed issues,  such as  best practices in planning and managing agribusinesses, increasing value addition and competitiveness in the sector. MyFarmbase Africa Chief Executive Oluwafemi Aliu said Nigerians needed to be enlightened on emerging agribusiness opportunities. He said: “This event has been organised to democratise the opportunities in agribusiness leveraging technology.” He said the organiation aimed to promote innovative, attractive and sustainable employment for youths by providing training, coaching and mentoring in entrepreneurship and business skills needed to develop and run successful agricultural enterprises. The Chief Executive, Binkabi, a London-based start-up firm, Quan Le, declared its readiness to boost agriculture trading through its value-based block-chain technology. He said farmers would leverage  the technology to make commodity trading fairer and more profitable. Le noted that Binkabi was a decentralised commodity network for emerging markets. He affirmed that farming was a high-risk and low-profit occupation, that the firm was poised to change. He said anyone could trade on commodities using Binkabi tokens, and that the more one traded, the more discounts the person would get. Ope Farms founder Mrs Olusola Sowemimo noted that one way  to accelerate agricultural growth for job creation was through the development of the food processing sector. She said: “Youths can leverage the numerous opportunities in the agriculture value chain, including content creation, processing, packaging, marketing,  among others’’ and that this would help them reap the benefits in the ecosystem. She said activities, such as horticulture, could raise incomes, employment and export opportunities for agriculture. Agriculture, according to her, is going to create huge opportunities. She said the sector will continue to generate employment, urging  youths to  explore  opportunities throughout the food chain to make a living. BIC Concepts Chief Executive Debo Onafowora spoke on soilless farming technology. He decried the level of degradation of soil and that water scarcity looms. He said: “Growing vegetables or tomatoes in a controlled medium will prevent the effect of climate change and essentially help to grow crops all-round the season.’’ The panel session engaged the Chief Technical Assistant ( CTA) to   the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Mosunmola Umoru; Executive Director, Commercial Operations, Animal Care, Opeyemi Agbato; CEO, Farmfunded, Joshua Ajisope; and Digital Agric Officer, Sterling Bank, David Apenda. 