Seven Beninoise and one Ghanaian, arrested by operatives of the Nigerian Navy (NN) for alleged Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) theft, have been handed over to the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for prosecution. The suspects were yesterday transferred to NSCDC Lagos Commandant Tajudeen Balogun alongside the two Cotonou boats and 150 by 25-litre kegs laden with PMS, recovered from them. The Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) BEECROFT, Commodore Ibrahim Shettima, said the suspects were arrested around 6pm on May 12 by a naval patrol boat on routine duty along Nigeria-Benin Republic border. The Nation reports that the patrol boat had intercepted the suspects’ Cotonou boats and discovered that they were conveying 85 by 250-litre drums and 150 by 25-litre kegs containing PMS believed to have been siphoned out of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) pipeline at Atlas Cove Island. Shettima, represented by the Base Executive Officer, Captain Adewale Odejobi, said the NN took time to investigate the case and was confident that there was ground to prosecute the suspects before handing over to the NSCDC. He said: “We are here to hand over the arrested foreign nationals who engaged in oil theft from Atlas Cove. We are handing over the suspects to NSCDC for prosecution. “Our findings revealed that the suspects actually had no business being in Nigeria at that time. Also, there is no legitimate source of the product and it forms part of the siphoned PMS products from Atlas Cove. “Already, we are carrying out forensic investigation on some exhibits recovered, in order to identify their sponsors and accomplices. I also believe that the NSCDC will put their expertise to use in order to gather more evidence.” Although nine suspects were arrested on May 12, the Navy said it handed over eight to NSCDC because one was still aiding their investigation. Taking custody of the suspects and exhibits, Balogun said the NSCDC would ensure diligent prosecution, adding that the agency had 15 vandalism cases pending in courts in the state. He said two convictions were secured this year. According to him, the agency would not engage in practices that would question its integrity or credibility. “The Navy believes in us that we will not let it down. We have fantastic investigation and legal departments and they ensure we do a thorough job before taking suspects to court so that they do not escape justice,” Balogun said.