Medical and Health Workers Union (MHWU) in Lagos State have called for the implementation of the minimum wage, seeking its reflection in their salary structure. The call was made at the union’s celebration of Workers Day at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba, Lagos State, MHWU Chairman, Federal Area Council, Lagos, Comrade Attah Isah said: “Since the President has signed the minimum wage passed by the National Assembly, we, as a union, want to know when it will be implemented and when it will reflect in the salary structure. We want to see the template of the minimum wage that has been approved.” He appealed that the money owed health workers be paid, urging President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint an administrator as the next Minister of Health, noting that such personnel is what is needed to attend to the affairs of the sector. “We have had enough troubles in the Ministry of Health. It is time we had peace and when there is peace there will be progress. Health workers need better and improved working conditions, as the health sector in the country is nothing to write home about,” he said. Former MHWU Chairman, Federal Medical Centre, Ebenezer Akande, thanked the President for the minimum wage. He, however, lamented on how health workers are treated in the country. “Health workers deserve better, the government takes care of the doctors as if they are the only ones that matters in the health sector, but the doctors cannot work without us. Doctors’ salary upward review has been approved twice, but ours not even once. How do they expect us to be happy doing the job and we have the larger percentage in the health sector. We want to be happy doing our job. The government has not been good to us, we want them to increase our salary too as they have done  for the doctors,” he said. MHWU National Auditor, Comrade Siwoku Olusegun, said the minimum wage approval is a call for celebration for all workers. He appealed to the Federal Government to come to their aid and pay their unpaid salary.