Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has approved the N30, 000 national minimum wage for the state workforce. Lalong dropped the cheering news while addressing workers during the Labor Day celebration at Rwang Pam Township stadium Jos on Wednesday. The governor did not however mention when he will commence the implementation of the new minimum wage. Lalong, who was represented by the Head of Service Mr Izam Azi, restated his commitment to regular payment of civil servants salaries in his second tenure in office just as he did in the last four years. He said: “I was a member of the National minimum wage committee representing the Governor’s Forum and I have pledged to stand by the resolution reached thereof. “We would assiduously work hard with workers to improve the IGR of the State so as to meet up with the payment of the new minimum wage” said Lalong. “I also pledged that I will do everything within my God- given ability and with availability of funds to clear all outstanding backlog of salaries and sustain the tempo of payment as at when due”. Lalong also commended workers in the state for the confidence reposed on him, which led to the landslide victory during the general elections in the state. He assured workers to stand on the gains of the past and do more for Plateau State. The governor however appealed to the Joint Union of Plateau owned Tertiary Institutions (JUPTI) to call off their strike action as his administration has already attended to some of their demands. He said other issues bothering on policy review and implementation were being expressly looked into with a view to arriving at a lasting solution. Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress in Plateau State Comrade Eugene Manji, while addressing workers in the state involving all the Trade Unions, said they were ready to open negotiation with the Plateau Government on the implementation of the new minimum wage in the state. He called on the necessary agency of Government to without further delay release the template for the new minimum wage to the States. 