Lagos State Governor Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode has unveiled the newly constructed layby on Allen roundabout, and Obafemi Awolowo Way, in Ikeja, with a pledge to continue to explore ways of easing movements on Lagos roads. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Transportation ‘Ladi Lawanson, said the layby and slip road with bus shelter, was constructed to decongest traffic occasioned by the loading and offloading of passengers, especially during peak hours on the Ikeja axis. He said: “Its completion will no doubt impact directly on travel time leading to reduction of traffic congestion by diverting the picking and dropping of passengers away from the main road to the slip road and layby, ” he said. “This Layby project is not the first; the multiple layby at Oworosoki, Ketu inward Ikorodu, the car wash Layby, the slip road at Olopomeji Road, the layby located in Alapere bus stop, and so many others around the State are all maximally in use. They are all constructed for the same purpose of decongesting traffic,” he said. Ambode said achieving success in decongesting the road requires the people to continue to use the infrastructures responsibly and partner with government to ease traffic. “This requires that we work together as a team to obey traffic rules and regulations, if we must encourage investors from far and near to feel safe at all times in the state.” The governor who said these projects were made possible by tax payers money urged Lagosians to take ownership of the projects provided across the State by the government and protect them. “As you take ownership and prevent them from vandalisation while paying your tax, you will encourage government to do more at all time,” he said. Speaking, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Dr. Taiwo Olufemi Salaam, said without any doubt, the layby was an iconic project that represented the emerging picture of the new Lagos as witnessed in the general infrastructural development in the State. Salaam urged road transport unions, their members and the public to make good use of the facility and not turn it into a mechanic workshop or an abode for all sort of illegal activities, as the state government would not fold it arms and watch any illegal activities thrive there. “Make the best use of this project. It is neither a lavatory; nor bedroom, it is also no colony for anyone. It is a project that belongs to all Lagosians. He said the slip road and laybys are meant to ease traffic and promote road safety and optimize the use of the roads.