•Hence the house and heritage of the Kuti family should be preserved It was about Nigeria’s famous Ransome-Kuti family, but there was much more to the event. The opening of the Kuti Heritage Museum, Abeokuta, Ogun State, on April 26, spotlighted Rev. Israel Oludotun Ransome-Kuti, an educationist and first president of the Nigeria Union of Teachers who died in 1955, as well as his wife, Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, a political activist and women’s rights campaigner who died in 1978. Mrs. Ransome-Kuti is said to be the first Nigerian woman to drive a car. New statues of the two figures at the front of the building emphasised their importance. The restoration of the one-storey house in which the couple had lived in Isabo, Abeokuta, which has become a museum, signified its status as a monument. Governor Ibikunle Amosun justified the refurbishment: “Indeed, our heroes will never die. We need to preserve their legacies in order to keep historical matters evergreen in people’s memories.’’ The architect who handled the renovation, Theo Lawson, was quoted as saying the premises had become a refuse dump and public toilet. There was a baffling delay before the Amosun administration finally got involved. Two years ago, Nike Nedum, a well-known member of the Kuti family, had said of the state government: “They seemed to be very keen three, four years back but didn’t follow through.” It is commendable that the administration redeemed itself concerning the issue. Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka’s presence elevated the event. Rev. Ransome-Kuti was his uncle. “I remember this house with deep affection. It was here I spent two years before going away to Ibadan Grammar School,” Soyinka recounted. He described his uncle as “a great educationist; at a point the Principal of Abeokuta Grammar School.” He gave the clergyman credit, saying, “he disciplined all of us…and I learnt a great deal.” Soyinka declared: “This house is a part of history, a legacy of immense proportions.” Indeed, the house is of huge historical interest. Beyond the historically significant roles of Rev. Ransome-Kuti and his wife, their offspring, who were raised in that same house, were historically significant. Amosun observed: “This is the house where all the Kutis were raised. From Mama Dolupo to Prof Olikoye, Fela and Beko, who were giants in their own right. When you are writing the history of Nigeria, all of them will have a pride of place. For us, we cannot allow all these giants to be unsung. We don’t want their memories to die and we don’t want our young ones to forget them.”  In essence, the museum teaches the value of a good name. Afrobeat phenomenon Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, as well as Olikoye Ransome-Kuti and Beko Ransome-Kuti, both medical doctors, were notables. Olikoye was a respected pediatrician and former minister of health, while Beko was a political activist and prominent pro-democracy fighter. Fela, the most visible of the Kuti siblings, achieved global stardom as a musician. This house is where their stories began. With the Kuti museum’s launch, Abeokuta, known for Olumo Rock and Soyinka’s house, among others, has an additional tourist attraction. However, whether the museum will have what it takes to draw visitors is another matter. “It is not easy getting information on Mr and Mrs Kuti. But, hopefully we should be done in a month’s time,” Lawson was quoted as saying. The museum’s managers should appreciate that the building only is not enough; the museum must have historically interesting content to attract visitors. Maintenance of form and content is another issue that should be given serious attention. The example of the Kuti Heritage Museum should inspire similar efforts in other places in the country where there are historically significant buildings begging for restoration and preservation. 