It was celebration galore in Isiokwe community of Akama-Oghe in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State following the commissioning of an electricity project in the area. The joy of the residents of the community who had lived for 37 years without experiencing electricity amidst several appeals to the government knew no bound. It however took proactive measures of Prof. Stan Udedi, a professor of Bio-Chemistry from the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka and member of the community to put an end to the 37-year old blackout. Commissioning the project, the outgoing Vice-Chancellor of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Prof. Joseph Ahaneku described the gesture as worthy of emulation. He described Udedi as a goal-getter who had completed the 3 basic ideals the University system stands for which include, “Lecturing, Research and Community service”. Expressing optimism that the electricity project would birth more goodies for the community, Ahaneku called on well-meaning individuals to embrace community service in their various communities. He further urged the locals to guard the project with all sense of ownership to forestall vandalism. In his remark, the Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Imo state, Prof. Emeka Ezeonu noted that the capital project was worthy of commendation. Describing the benefactor as a mobilizer, Ezeonu commended all who partnered with him to put smiles on the faces of the locals. On his part, the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ike Ekweremmadu who was represented by his SA Political, Ozo Okey Ozoani extolled the selfless service of the sponsor of the project, wishing him success in his endeavors. The benefactor and Dean, Students Affairs in UNIZIK, Prof. Udedi regretted that the challenge of darkness had brought untold hardship to the community for over 37 years. In his words, “Ugwu Isiokwe community situates on hills and in valleys and this negatively affect the living conditions of the people. The lack of power until now made matters worse. “The event of today renews hope for greater output and productivity by the people. We are committed to continued community development and we will effectively put our resources for greater exploit in the future.” He expressed deep gratitude to his partners for their prompt financial and technical support towards achieving the project. “I am highly indebted to Sen. Ike Ekweremmadu, the Deputy Senate President, Hon. Fred Chukwudi Ezinwa, Executive Chairman Ezeagu LGA, Prof. Ahaneku and Prof. Ezeonu. “I equally appreciate the contributions of Engr. Nkedilim Chigbata, Dr. E.C Okoli, Engr. Geoffery Okongwu, the Onowu of Akama-Oghe & his cabinet, Rev Fr. Jacob Ugwuoke, among numerous others.” Highpoints of the occasion included conferment of Chieftaincy title to the Vice Chancellor of Nnamdi Azikiwe University for his great contribution to the project, presentation of gift items by various groups to the sponsor.