MainOne said it has set aside over N25 billion to develop critical fiber optic infrastructure to enable broadband services across Lagos State. Its CEO, Funke Opeke, who spoke during a campaign organised in Lagos to announce the plan said the investment is in line with the vision of the governor-elect of the state, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to deploy technology to improve service delivery to the people of the state. Tagged: Digital Lagos: Broadband for All, the campaign is an initiative to enable the digital transformation of the state through deployment of ubiquitous broadband infrastructure across the state. “Technology will improve the rule of law, education, ease of doing business and government processes of Lagos,” Sanwo-Olu had said. Opeke said the firm is keen to collaborate with the state government and all other relevant stakeholders to build Digital Lagos and help citizens from all walks of life realise the benefits of broad, sustainable economic growth, modernised education, health, and other services delivery, and improved quality of life. She said: “MainOne is pleased to have the opportunity to present its plan for Digital Lagos, a proven path to ubiquitous broadband connectivity. This plan will involve the investment by MainOne of over N25 billion over the next two and three years to develop critical fiber optic infrastructure to enable broadband services across Lagos State.” Opeke said MainOne has pioneered investments in critical internet-enabling infrastructure across West Africa, stressing that till date, it has invested over N120 billion funded by leading African banks. She said the firm has proven its capabilities in expanding and densifying localised fiber networks in neighboring states of Ogun and Edo by deploying almost 1,000kms of fiber in partnership with Facebook to expand broadband access and connect government institutions and other areas of interest. Opeke said, as the licenced infrastructure company (InfraCo) for Lagos Zone, the resulting network to be built by MainOne would provide essential connectivity to critical state institutions, cover over 300 government agencies, up to 10,000 state CCTV locations, telcos and internet service providers (ISPs), public Wi-Fi hotspots, Smart City components / Internet of Things (IoT) devices, in addition to enterprises.