The Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai on Tuesday vowed that officers and men of the Nigerian Army would remain resolute in the on-going war against terrorism in the country. Lt Gen. Buratai said not withstanding the occasional hitches, the Armed Forces would defeat terrorism and overcome other criminals in the country. He made the assertion in Borno state at the burial of Lt Col. Yusuf I Aminu and two soldiers who lost their lives on Monday. They were buried at the Maimalari Military Cantonment Cemetery, Maiduguri, Borno State . According to a statement by Army spokesman Col. Sagir  Musa “the  patriotic officer and two  soldiers paid the supreme sacrifice while on clearance operations along Mauli-Borgozo axis on Monday, the 13th of May, 2019.” Col Musa said : “The late Lieutenant Colonel Yusuf Ibrahim Aminu was the Commanding Officer (CO) of 154 Task Force Battalion Borgozo. “He was on a clearance operation along Mauli- Borgozo when his vehicle  climbed on a buried  Improvised Explosive Device which detonated resulting in losing his life and that of 2 other soldiers while others were wounded in action. “Commiserating with the family of the deceased, the COAS used the opportunity to again commend the efforts of the entire troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in the war on terror and charged them to remain steadfast, more committed and professional for the sake of Nigeria. “The sacrifices of all the deceased officers and soldiers of the NA is no doubt painful to all, but that will further ginger the serving gallant troops to do more to ensure that the nation remains secure and peaceful. “Present at the solemn occasion were the Chief of Training and Operations ‘Army’, Major General Lamidi Adeosun, Theatre Commander OPERATION LAFIYA DOLE, Major General Benson Akinroluyo, Corp Commander Engineers, Major General John Malu, Acting General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Brig Gen Abdulmalik Bulama Biu, Corps Commander Supply and Transport, Major General Victor Offiong, Principal Staff Officers from Army Headquarters, Theatre Command and HQ 7 Division amongst others.