The FCT police Command has set up a team to probe allegations of rape against some of its personnel. The alleged rape was said to have occurred on 27th April when some suspected commercial sex workers were raided at Caramelo night club by the FCTA Joint Task Team. The team that went on the raid comprises the Department of Development Control, Abuja Environment Protection Board (AEPB) and the Social Development Secretariat. Some of the commercial sex workers alleged that they were harassed, molested and assaulted by some police personnel. They alleged that policemen attached to Utako, Life Camp and Gwarimpa police stations raped and physically assaulted them in custody. Following the allegation, the Command’s Deputy Spokesman, ASP Gajere Tanimu in a statement in Abuja on Friday, said the Command has sent out invitation to some individuals that may assist in the investigation. While assuring members of the public of the Command’s zero tolerance for misconduct, Taminu stated stiff punishment will be meted out to officers found guilty. The statement reads: “The Attention of FCT Police Command has been drawn to serious allegations of rape against some of its members on social, print and electronic media. “This was said to have occurred on 27th April, 2019 when some suspected commercial sex workers were raided by the FCTA Joint Task Team comprising of the Department of Development Control, Abuja Environment Protection Board (AEPB), and the Social Development Secretariat at Caramelo night club, Utako, and also while they were kept at Utako Division. “The Command as a responsible corporate citizen, views the allegations seriously. “Consequently, a high powered team was constituted to investigate the veracity of the allegation. “In this regard invitations were sent out to relevant individuals that may assist in getting to the root of the matter. “The Command wishes to assure members of the public of its zero tolerance for unprofessional disregard to human rights and stiff punishments will be meted out to erring officers.”