Right from when the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, revealed in 2015 that his administration would embark on projects that would touch the lives of the people, there were strong feelings of skepticism about the possibility of such ambition. The skepticism reached a crescendo when he disclosed that the projects would include a 275km superhighway. At present, many are, justifiably confused on how to interpret the governor’s intention concerning the project. Could the governor rightly be accused of malfeasance or could it be that he meant well proposing such ambitious projects? However, government’s silence about the fate of the road has become a source of worry and surprising. It has not divulged any information with regard to the mega project. For a state that gets around N3 billion from the Federation Account every month, with an almost non-existent internally generated revenue system, coupled with a crippling debt profile it inherited from previous administrations, it gives the impression that the project may be difficult to get to as target. This is so because the highway project was expected to gulp almost N700 billion. The decision to embark on the project, according to the governor, was to boost economic activities by building a deep seaport, which also is yet to take off, in Bakassi Local Government Area in the southern part of the state and the highway will be an evacuation corridor to link the seaport to other parts of the state as well as the northern part of the country. The governor was resolute about his vision, and had even promised that the project would be delivered by the end of his first tenure, which is this month. Currently, besides the clearing of some areas the project was to crisscross, as well as problems with communities over destruction of forests and property, and the back-and-forth talks about compensation, there is really nothing on ground to show any evidence of any of the projects. Many would argue this may be due to resistance by various organisations, especially environmentally related ones, and communities that doubted the sincerity of the project and the negative impact it would have on the environment and in the lives of the people. The communities had complained that the government was going ahead to bulldoze forests and property, even without any Environmental Impact Assessment, which it got eventually.. Some had even concluded that the project was a means of logging wood from the rich forests of the state. The controversies surrounding the highway have been many, but a very important one has been the issue of funding, given the financial status of the state. On this issue, Ayade, who has entered into several memoranda of understanding overseas, allayed fears, saying foreign companies were falling over themselves to fund the project in a partnership with the government. Given that the issue of funding seemed to have been sorted out, it was with some shock that people of Cross River State were inundated with news reports that the governor had transmitted a letter to the Cross River State House of Assembly to approve modalities for funding the project by the state government. The letter, which was leaked on the Internet, and signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), sought an Irrevocable Standing Payment Order (ISPO) of the sum of N648.8 billion in favour of a construction company. The letter with reference number SSG/S/300/VOL.XVII/1199, addressed to the Speaker of the State House of Assembly sought the legislature to consider and pass a resolution granting an approval for the state government to issue an ISPO of N300 million monthly through a bank in favour of the construction company. The government has so far been silent on the letter. It has not refuted it. The situation had evoked various reactions from various quarters, who feel that besides such arrangement economically crumbling an already debt-burdened state, it also lacked transparency expected of a project of such magnitude. The situation has raised a lot of questions and BudgIT recently warned the Cross River State government to halt the highway project on the grounds that undue financial hazard and avoidable hardship would plague the state for the next 100 years should the government compound its existing debt burden. A statement signed by BudgIT’s Communications Associate, Shakir Akorede, reads in part: “For the umpteenth time, BudgIT is raising the alarm over this attempt to hold public resources to ransom. “Suspecting an obstinate intention of the Ayade government to defraud the people of Cross River State, we deem the project overly ambitious, superfluous and almost a misplaced priority especially–besides its viability to investors–when there has been hardly any explanation on ‘infallible plans’ to upscale the state revenue and clear cumulative debts let alone fix the human and environmental costs of the project. “With a budget estimate of N648 billion, the 275km arterial highway fails all tests of fiscal sustainability and proper procurement process, as the state government has, unacceptably, failed to name the investors, four years down the line. The purported appointment of Messrs. Sydney Construction Company as contractors for the highway was carried out without a clear, transparent tender process, we maintain.” But reacting to BudgIT, Ayade said it was clear that they had not availed themselves of the facts regarding the economic value of that highway. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Christian Ita, he said: “It is not just like telling the American government not to construct a major piece of infrastructure. How does that even sound? How do economies even grow? Economies grow when you spend money on infrastructure and we are saying that this superhighway is a corridor that would lead to the Bakassi deep seaport. “The project is on course and we are saying that Cross River State can never be caught in that web where Lagos is today, where you have just one major highway, but that highway is locked. This is a road that would generate money for the state. “So, while BudgIT would be looking at it, they have not taken time to avail themselves of the fact regarding that project. “Despite the fact that Cross River State receives about the second lowest allocation, it was still among the five states that actually showed promise of meeting their financial demands. BudgIT should go beyond this; we have known them over time. They have been opposed to the superhighway.” Ita did not give a direct response on whether the letter to the House of Assembly was true or not. Rather he said: “You said reportedly. They should be certain. It means they don’t know what they are talking about. What is governance? Governance is about having set objectives. The problem is even us the media. As at 1990, Dubai had only one storey building. Currently, the whole world is gravitating towards Dubai because a man had a vision. Go and read his book. “When he was building the deep seaport, there were issues. Why are you doing this? You don’t have money. He refused to respond. It is visionary leadership. The easiest thing to do is to sit down and fold hands and pay salaries and smile at everybody and not be ambitious. BudgIT should spare us and do their due diligence.”