Anthony Joshua has argued for stringent regulations to be put in place when fighters fail dope tests in the wake of Jarrell Miller’s meagre six-month ban. Joshua was set to defend his WBA, IBF and WBO heavyweight titles against Miller on June 1 at Madison Square Garden, only for the Brooklyn challenger to reportedly test positive for a number of performance-enhancing drugs. Andy Ruiz Jr has stepped in as the replacement for Miller, whose six-month suspension from the WBA has raised the latest debate about whether enough is being done to combat illicit substances in the sport. Joshua told Press Association Sport: “Maybe there needs to be more of a situation where it’s not just a random six-month ban. I know, for instance, if I carry a bladed article I’m going to get x amount of time in jail if I carry a weapon of destruction I’m going to get a certain amount of time in jail, so you know (the consequences of what will happen). “Six months is news to me, it’s like ‘why did he only get six months?’ It should be ‘Miller’s definitely getting this’, that’s my opinion on it. There should be something where people know if they mess up, this is exactly what is happening.” The frequency with which elite fighters step into the ring means a six-month ban has been branded inadequate in many quarters. Joshua himself will have had a gap of more than eight months since stopping Alexander Povetkin last September in his most recent outing and when he takes on Ruiz Jr in New York. Joshua labelled the situation “crazy” and though he was eager to turn his attention towards his next opponent, the 29-year-old admitted his disappointment at missing out on the opportunity to silence the brash Miller. Joshua said: “It is frustrating but at the same time we’ve got good people around us who manage these types of things and events. I’m happy I haven’t had sleepless nights trying to find an alternative opponent. I’ve concentrated on my training and that’s all that matters, I think, so Miller to the side, who’s next? Andy Ruiz and the show goes on.” California-based Ruiz Jr has won 32 of his 33 professional contests, with the only setback a razor-thin majority points loss to former Joshua opponent Joseph Parker in December 2016.