Looking back before looking forward This past week, amidst a backdrop of rising national tension over insecurity, violent banditry and kidnapping on an industrial scale, the much lambasted ninth National Assembly, in a rare moment of pan-Nigerian patriotism, voted across party, ethnic, regional and religious lines to approve June 12 as Democracy Day. With that historic amendment, the road is now clear to canonize the greatest electoral moment in the modern history of Nigeria and the canonization of its symbol as a posthumous president of the nation. As we have asserted many times in this column, history moves forward but often by lurching sideways and in a contradictory and paradoxical manner too. It is not as if June !2, 1993, or Abiola himself for that matter, would have provided all the answers to Nigeria’s problems. But there are moments in history when a nation rises above itself to foreshadow its own future greatness and immense possibilities. Wise nations usually warehouse such moments in their memory banks as talisman against future inclemency and as tropes of national redemption against ever present forces of disunity. Whether the campaign to revalidate June 12 is an act of political opportunism is now a mere academic exercise. It is not the motive that matters but the ultimate motivation. With record national approval, even those who disagree can only continue their whimpering and sulphuric sulking in the background. Who would have thought that a man widely fingered as an ethnic supremacist, a patron of herdsmen hegemony and a rabid fundamentalist would be instrumental to this national breakthrough? In the same man, the same leader, the same nationality, the same political elite and the same nation may cohere paradoxically primordial and progressive tendencies.  What is important is to coax the best out of everybody and every group or leave them at the mercy of history and implacable centrifugal forces. Until war is virtually inevitable, political manoeuvre must continue. Twenty six years after June 12, it is a sad fact that Nigeria and its political elite are once again exhibiting their worst traits. Centrifugal forces are again unleashed on the nation. Aspects of the national question that would have been resolved by the June 12 !993 election are being fought all over again with much ferocity and national anger. As they say, it never rains but pours. In periods of great confusion, it is always necessary to cast a retrospective glance at a past before taking a prospective look at coming configurations. The past is not always an infallible guide to the future, but is always an invaluable tool for understanding it. When the article that follows was written several years ago, the ACN party as it was known then was just beginning to consolidate its grip on the South West. There was no APC or a Buhari administration.  The alliance that was to usher in both was still years away. That alliance between two mutually antagonistic political blocs and its stunning success in two federal elections has meant that for the first time in the post-independence history of the nation, the Yoruba people are fully represented at the centre. Yet despite the success at the level of prime politics and Yoruba visibility on the national stage, there are many who believe that the Yoruba might have mortgaged their future for some short term political advantage particularly in the face of a north of the nation rapidly imploding as a result of its feudal contradictions. On the other hand are those who believe that the alliance offers the Yoruba a strategic respite to think through their place in the Nigerian conglomeration and in some comfort, too. They are not likely to allow themselves to be driven off their pedestal by the hysterical ranting of the electorally vanquished. If it comes to real war, neither side has the battalion or the battlements. The real warlords are waiting in the wings. Unfortunately as the contending arguments rip and tear through the Yoruba political firmament without respite, one can only conclude that the old Yoruba civil war is far from over.