The North-East Development Commission has indeed come to stay. Few days ago, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated the commission with the sum of N10 billion as its take-off grant. The team is no doubt comprised of men of tested capacity and integrity and is poised to set the ball rolling. This piece seeks to add to their copious wealth of experience documented in their record of endeavours. It is pertinent to note that, expectations are high in the face of challenging “Nigeriaism”. The Nigeriaism as coined by the author refers to the tendency that a project was designed to work yet knowing it will fail. This paradox has remained the bane of the Nigerian predicament. Politicians and powerful players are the culprits. For the team to succeed, it must be determined to tackle this monster headlong and reciprocate this trust by standing in on the letters to work and not to fail. It would not be out of place to see piles of recommendations in favour of individuals and corporate entities flying from politicians and powerful players as a payback for favour or role played for the birth of the commission or the commissioners themselves. There may be no harm in honouring recommendations after all, but it must speak positively to the result framework; anything short of this is an imminent recipe for a failure. For every response to such a fate, it must be weighed against these; does it align to fairness, goodwill, outcome and impact? When all these are on the affirmative, then heaven can be pleased with the action thereof. This singular action and inactions of the powerful have ridiculed some inspiration and aspiration that has been well thought off yet sublimes into obscurity. Aside the above factor, unaccountable humanitarian organizations litter around; accurate details of local and international partners working in the domain is imperative, while their presence marks some forms of fraternity but leaving them without control can make them foes rather than friends. It is a clear example of the popular saying; “too many cooks spoil the broth”. A good mapping of all organizations working to promote development should be handy, their modus operandi gazetted including their budget and area of comparative advantage. A leap on these will secure the zone from indolence, duplication of duties and cost and the needless acrimonies associated with unhealthy competitions that abound on the field. As the goal of the commission is to catalyze the rebuilding/rehabilitation of the Boko Haram-ravaged Northeast, it also instructive to note that while addressing the immediate cause(s) of the mayhem, a searchlight on the remote causes would be more rewarding. As it stands today there are countless formations/battalion of Nigerian Army that has yet brought the needed peace and tranquillity in the zone; this is a signal that there is need for concerted efforts in engendering both social and physical security. In coming up with strategic interventions, the need to understand the socio-cultural dynamic of the region as topmost priority; sensitization of community gatekeepers should be sacrosanct (the religious and traditional institutions as key players at every stage of planning and implementation of the intervention). One prominent feature in the socio-cultural setting in the Northeast that can hardly be unconnected with the Boko Haram history and evolution is the Almajiranci. This Almajirci is a common practice in a man history. This involved moving away from immediate family to another distance place of abode devoid of immediate parental care in search of Islamic knowledge\education. This sojourn can start as early as five years of life or even less. It is believed that the farther away from home, the less distraction and better understanding of values. But over the years, this has not only shown to the contrary. It reflects a big disservice to the growth and development of the individual to the extent of nipping ones potential. Further understanding of the source-book where the idea was drawn from to which most households canvases it ratio from reveals how completely it is riotous to the Islamic teaching. It is therefore golden to pitch tent with interventions and activities that can demystify its spread and acceptability. There is no gainsaying that at the latent period of Almajirci, the parent experiences the graveyard peace as no dime will be expended on food, education, health and upbringing of this child/ward, albeit at the expense of the child-scorching experience of deprivation, education, hunger, disease, shelter, companionship and empathy with increased vulnerability to all sorts of deviant behaviours. The stride therefore should be geared towards mitigating compelling factors that swell Almajirci to thrive. It is therefore modest to look into programs that engender increase awareness on Islamic stands on care of children, education and mentoring of children, programs that empower parents and addresses poverty especially women, health and wellness programs for all and a befitting integrated Islamic / Western Education system; this will aptly capture and account for all children who are within and out of the care of their parents/guardians. To say that only social safe net intervention is all it is to address this quagmire is to say the least; it may help resolve the program as a long term measure, quick win that can be achieved as the low hanging fruits are the physical policing of the local and international territory. The borders are porous and need diligent policing and intelligent gathering on the influx and out flux of persons into the territory; by this it means relationship/stakeholders management by the commission is key, the army, police, immigration, customs and even the local security structures is very important. It is important also to note the tragedy of the communities around states with borders. It is palpably clear that the fraternity and loyalty generated between persons living around the border town even though belong to different nationality sparks of the theory of “Conspiracy of Silence”. An alien will be many folds safer and secured if hails from the locality around the border than a true national who hails far kilometres away from the bordering communities. This can be explained by homogeneity in cultural practices and gradual transition seen around this area. In conclusion; it is heart-warming that the Northeast commission has come to stay; with the aim of rebuilding the area ravaged by the Boko Haram. To achieve this, it is imperative for the team to understand the dynamism that shall play out vis-à-vis a firm grip of the root and immediate causes of this menace. An expanded team with multi-disciplinary skills and task shall go a long way in bringing peace and tranquillity to the Northeast. 