Since the blowing of political whistle by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, when it announced November 2nd and further rescheduled for November 16th, 2019 for the governorship election in Bayelsa State, many people have nocturnally and openly indicated their intent to have a shot at the race to Creek Haven, the Government House and seat of the Bayelsa State Government. It is an interesting race with lots of intrigues cutting across virtually in all the major political parties particularly that of opposition political party of the All Progressive Congress and its counterpart of the ruling People’s Democratic Party. It is a game of both pretenders and real contenders. One candidate that is not pretending but has clearly indicated his intent to have a shot at the race is current Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Heineken Lokpobiri, on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC). Making known his intent to contest the APC governorship race in Bayelsa State is not only interesting game to watch like that of the epic film of Eddy Murphy- Coming to America but is also surprising to the party faithful within the APC fold, given his camaraderie relationship with the leader of the party and the first term governor of Bayelsa State, Chief Timipre Sylva. No doubt Heineken October Lokpobiri, a two term senator, has the constitutional right to contest for the office of governor of his state. However, his political project has been widely received with mixed reactions among the political divide. Those in support of his ambition said there was nothing wrong to contest, citing the example of Governor Wike Nyesom of Rivers State from the Ikwere geo-political bloc who took over from RotimiAmeachi of same Ikwere political bloc, contrary to the local political zoning arrangement of Upland and Riverine politics that had existed in the old Rivers State from time immemorial. The pro-Lokpobiri group strongly believes it is time that zoning arrangement should be broken in the interest of merit and competence. This is coming in the midst of Governor Henry Seriake Dickson serving out his second tenure from the Bayelsa West Senatorial District where the Minister of State for Agriculture comes from. As erotic as the argument from the pro Lokpobiri group may sound, a critical x-ray of Lokpobiri’s candidacy under the platform of APC and if he is eventually given the standard bearer of the party, it has huge implications with bandwagon effects on the political fortunes of the party in what many described as an epic battle ahead. Arguments from the other side of the divide described Heineken Lokpobiri’s ambition as ”an ambition taken too far” in the face of the bare facts and the odds which stand against the party if he is given the APC ticket. One of the major planks of the argument advanced against Mr. Lokpobiri is that, his ambition runs foul of the widely accepted local zoning formula where key positions of the office of the governor, deputy governor and others are based on zoning according to the geo-political configuration in the state. According to one Ebiowei Amaitare, a kinsman of Heineken Lokpobiri, ”Senator Lokpobiri should stop painting Bayelsa-West in bad light as a greedy people. He should place the people’s interest, which binds them together, above his personal interest.” Those urging Lokpobiri not to contest may have their valid reasons. A critical view at Lokpobiri’s political rise shows that he has not on his own contested any fierce election. It has always been either by imposition as in the case of Alamieyeseigha days to the spoils of the harmonisation saga under Alaibe to another imposition through the instrumentality of state power under the Timipre Sylva government in 2011. It is a sheer product of political opportunism all through his political career, characterised by the averice of greed and ingratitude to his benefactors whom he had bitten in one way or the other. These are factors that may not only work against Lokpobiri as a candidate but will also spell a death knell on the political fortunes of APC in Bayelsa State. Another reason that analysts see as a minus for Lokpobiri is his alleged brand of politics of violence and sectarianism. It is an open secret that Lokpobiri’s associates with youths who are mostly disposed towards violence during and after election and alienates himself from the counsels of the wise, elders and elites. These are traits that have become a huge liability for Lokpobiri in the politics of Bayelsa State. The governorship election in Bayelsa State is not going to be an easy ride to the seat of power. The party must therefore go back to the drawing board and present a credible candidate for the choice of the electorates and not candidates that will give the party bandwagon effects. Aspiration is one thing and translating the collective aspiration to a reality is a different ball game. Senator Heineken Lokpobiri is no doubt an amiable personality on the face value, but wining an election of this magnitude is an onerous task. For now, in the light of the above, Heineken Lokpobiri need to forget about his ambition in the broader interest of the APC to win and liberate Bayelsans from the current shackles of oppression and grotesque mis-governance in Bayelsa State.