•’Protesters disrespected ministry’s directive’ There was a protest yesterday in the Abuja office of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) on allegation of corruption, poor welfare and irregular promotion, among other things. The protest, which was organised by the Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE) grounded activities at the Federal Government agency. The Chairman of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Council of AUPCTRE, Comrade Aliyu Maradun, told reporters that SON’s Director General Osita Aboloma had allegedly been involved in multiple contract awards and contract splitting. “We are aware of people who were employed here and under six months, they were promoted more than five times. And there are people here who have spent 20 years stagnated. “Some people are on secondment and have refused to go, at the detriment of the people here who are supposed to occupy their positions,” he said. Aliyu demanded the intervention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) into the operations of the organisation, an improved workers’ welfare and the implementation of the directive of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment on voluntarism. But the President of the SON branch of the Senior Staff Association of the Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC), Ayodele Folayan, dismissed the allegations of AUPCTRE. He described the protest as “uncalled for”. Folayan said there were efforts to resolve issues on workers’ welfare, adding that the protesters should return to the negotiating table for a solution. SON spokesman Bola Fashina said the protesters disrespected the directive of the Ministry of Labour and Employment on voluntarism and not SON. On promotion arrears, he said, budgetary allocation had been made while the amount provided had been approved in this year’s budget by the National Assembly. In his response to AUPCTRE allegations, Fashina said: “The Federal Ministry of Labour’s directive was to clarify jurisdictional scope of the two unions. SSASCGOC, for senior workers and AUCPTRE for junior workers SON obeyed the ministry. “SON is currently paying 20 per cent of workers’ total emoluments as conditions of service. A committee is already in place to harmonise the two versions presented to this management and the two unions have been invited to nominate representatives onto the committee. “There are two approved versions – 2012 and 2016. SON cannot choose one over the other. We need to review or harmonise with the union representatives before recommending to management. “No worker has been coerced or intimidated. Management only drew attention of staff to the letter from the Federal Ministry of Labour in a Circular “There was no illegal promotion; rather, there were advancement of workers to reflect qualification and requisite experience of the workers. This is normal in public service. A graduate of between 15 and 20 years wrongly offered appointment on CONRAISS 8 and advanced to CONRAISS 12 is an example. “The arrears of salary for workers employed in 2016 were 16 months. The Director General intervened and got the IPPIS and Office of the Accountant General to pay. The remaining two months will be paid by same source. “The workers were employed before the appointment of the present DG. The arrears were reported to the relevant authorities. It is awaiting payment by IPPIS anytime from now. “Secondment is an acceptable and legal practice in public service provided for in the Public Service Rules (PSR). The secondment to SON is within the PSR. None of the seconded staff is a non-Nigerian.  