Stakeholders have praised APM Terminals for maintaining an excellent safety record in its operation at the Lagos Port Complex, Apapa. The commendation came at the commemoration of the 2019 Global Safety Day with the theme ‘Safety Differently – Learning from the way we work,’ last week. The stakeholders, who included representatives of truckers’ union, shipping lines and licensed customs agents, noted that APM Terminals recorded zero fatality in more than four years. Speaking at the event, its Managing Director, Mr. Martin Jacob, thanked the workers for living up to their safety responsibilities and upholding their commitment to safety as their licence to operate. He also commended the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for its commitment to a safe port environment, especially at APM Terminals Apapa, with modern firefighting equipment made available for safety and fire drills, which contributed to excellent safety records at the terminals. Jacob said this year’s Global Safety Day theme was about continuous listening to and learning from the workforce when it comes to safety to contribute to safe and successful work outcomes. He explained that APMT’s continuous effort at improving safety at the workplace is yielding the desired results, stating that the company is committed to ensuring not just the safety of its assets but the safety of its employees, customers, contractors and visitors at the facility daily. The Managing Director of PIL Nigeria Limited, Mr. Jack Landgrishe, the Managing Director of Lansal Limited, Mr. Francoius Joseph Ossude and the Commercial Director of Maersk Nigeria Limited, Mr. Richard Smith, who were at the event, showered encomiums on Athe firm for ensuring the safety of lives and cargo at the port. The Chairman, Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Chief Remi Ogungbemi, also commended APM Terminals for maintaining a high level of safety over the years and for recognising the role of truck drivers in promoting safety at the port. While presenting awards to Mr. Abdullahi Kazeem, an external truck driver, and some employees of APM Terminals Apapa in recognition of their roles in promoting safe practices within the terminal, Jacob said, “APM Terminals Apapa will continue to constantly engage and train truck drivers on the importance of safety within the terminal and on the roads, which ultimately results in savings from insurance premiums.” The event also featured a safety drill by the Emergency Response Team of port concessionaire and the Fire Service Unit of Nigerian Ports Authority. The drill involved the deployment of firefighting equipment and skills to demonstrate how to combat fire on a container at the quayside.