The senator representing Katsina South, Abu Ibrahim, met members of the Council of Fulani Title leaders in Abuja on Wednesday over the escalating kidnapping and banditry in some north western states. Alhaji Hussaini Kachia and Alhaji Abubakar Fullo represented the Council of Fulani title leaders at the meeting. Ibrahim said that they are “disturbed and embarrassed about what is going on and the claim that Fulani are involved.” He insisted that there must be a way out of crippling kidnapping and banditry in parts of the country. Ibrahim said that a larger meeting is expected after Umrah when representation from Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi, Katsina and Kaduna, will be in attendance to rob minds on the way out of kidnapping and banditry in the states. The lawmaker noted they also discussed the Livestock Identification System bill which he sponsored. The bill, he said, has passed the third reading in the Senate awaiting to be presented for concurrence in the House of Representatives. On the problem of banditry Ibrahim said: “I raised the issue of the claims that are going on that some how the Fulani are participating in the kidnapping and banditry that are going on in the country. “I am Fulani, although I am more Hausa now. We feel disturbed and embarrassed about what is going on and the claims that Fulani are involved. “I told them that nobody, no ruler, no president, no governor not even district head will accept this kind of situation. “I told them that there must be a way out otherwise there will be total confrontation with the armed forces of this country. It has to be stopped at all cost in the interest of the country. “We agreed to meet some time because I’m going on Umrah to come back on Friday so that they can come in larger number. “There will also be more representation from states that are being devastated by insecurity. “The meeting will decide what should be done after which we may involve security agencies. “I raised the issue and they agreed to address the problem. One of the things they raised is that it appears there are sponsors. “I think it is a good start. There will also be submissions on the livestock Identification bill which is one of the solutions.” 