The only regret of his family and associates is that the great politician died 17 days to the inauguration of his son, Dr. Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat, as deputy governor of Lagos State. He led a life of honour, dignity and service to the political class, Lagos and humanity. The progressive family in Lagos and Southwest will continue to cherish the contributions of the late Oba Muftau Olatunji hamzat, Olu of Afowowa Sogade, Ogun State, and member of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council. He was 86. Many party members, who held him in high esteem as a mentor and role model, received the news of his death with a mixture of shock and understanding. It was with shock because his demise was not preceded by long or protracted illness. However, it was with understanding because he left at a ripe age. His last public outing was the conferment of a honorary doctorate degree on him by the European-American University. The event took place at the Main Auditorium of the University of Lagos, Akoka. Oba Hamzat was a principled politician, a courageous leader, incorruptible actor, an Awoist, and consistent player who never defected from the progressive camp. Paying tribute to him, Lagos APC GAC member Alhaji Mutiu Are noted that the hallmark of his political career was loyalty. “He was a believer in party supremacy, party discipline and the pre-eminence of gerontocratic monitoring,” he added. Hamzat’s exit trailed the demise of some of his contemporaries in the GAC, including Chief Mumuni Adio Badmus, Chief Rafiu Jafojo, Senator Sikiru Shitta-Bey, Chief Whenu Hundeyin, Hon. Odunsi and Pa Suarau from Ojo. Hamzat will be greatly missed by his community, Afowowa Sogade, where he was the monarch, his ancestral Ajiborisa family of Epe and the wider political class, particularly the progressive bloc, which retained the fond memories of his involvement in the Action Group (AG) politics in Mushin in the days of Timithy Abiona, I.O Adeyemi, M.B Shillings, F.O Okuntola and S.A Ojo; his compatriots in the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Alliance for Democracy (AD), Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) and APC. He left behind a formidable ruling party, APC, a peaceful and potentially greater Lagos warming up for a new dawn on May 29, and surviving gerontocratic compatriots in the Lagos State GAC, who will continue to guide the process in the wider interest of Lagosians. One of the lessons of his life was that Hamzat was not a politician without a second addres. He was a successful banker before entering politics. He was also a businessman. Hamzat is survived by worthy and promising children who are doing well in their chosen fields; as technocrats and politicians in his footsteps. The deceased politician was an outstanding and experienced politician, who moulded the lives of younger generation of political actors who subscribe to the progressive creed. He was a successful technocrat, who was fortified by the dignity of labour and involvement in community service before becoming a full-time politician. In the First Republic, he entered politics as a member of the Action Group (AG) Youth Association, led by Pa Ayo Fasanmi, nicknamed the revolutionary chemist. The national secretary of the group was the late Sikiru Shitta-Bey, who later served in the House of Representatives and Senate. The motivation for joining the party was the captivating progressive ideas espoused  by Awolowo, who presided over the pioneer administration in the defunct Western Region that has remained a reference point in Africa. His first encounter with the sage, Obafemi Awolowo, was when he was part of the association’s delegation to the Broad Street Prison, where he was detained when his son, Segun, died in an auto crash. While they were there to sympathise with Awo, the great man started counselling them about the reality of life and inevitability of death. “I can never forget the very first encounter I had with Chief Awolowo, which taught me about the necessary iron resolve without which political leadership is vacuous and untenable,” Hamzat recalled in his memoirs. In 1979, Pa Hamzat became a chieftain of UPN, led Awolowo, and was elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly, where he aspired to serve as Speaker. His opponent in the Mushin Constituency 11 was Alhaji Nurideen Alowonle of the banned National Party of Nigeria (NPN). But, he lost the principal legislative position to the late Hon. Oladosu Osinnowo. Hamzat’s godfather was Pa Rafiu Ishola Solomon, associate of Alhaji Lateef Jakande and father of Senator Ganiyu Solomon. Pa Solomon was a grassroots operator who, in Hamzat’s view, was a disciplinarian who also liked to reward political loyalty. In later years, Hamzat expressed displeasure in the behaviour of the son of his mentor, saying that he portrayed a blatant disregard for civility and ideological temperance, yielding to combative, licentious thuggery and display of gangsterism. The younger Solomon disagreed with the submission. Hamzat’s colleagues in the House of Assembly included Chief Busura Alebiosu from Kosofe, Oladimeji Longe, Longe Oyediran from Somolu, Clement Awoyelu from Amuwo Odofin, Oluwole Awolowo from Apapa, Hon. Ayiyoh from Oshodi/Isolo and Hon. Odunsi from Surulere. However, shortly after the inauguration of the House under Speaker Osinnowo, Pa Hamzat was appointed as Commissioner for Transport by Governor Jakande, following recommendation by the Mushin UPN leader, Solomon. In 1983, he was reappointed into the same position after Jakande was re-elected. His compatriots in the State Executive Council included Olorunfunmi Basorun (Secretary to Government), Olawale Idris (Commissioner for Health), Daniyu Dawodu (Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs), Afolabi Ege, Hundeyin (Works), P.O Fagbeyiro (Agriculture), Agbabiaka, Alhaji Masha, Hon. Shobowale, Arokodaro, and Prof. Femi Igbalajobi, who later became Secretary to Government. Immediately he was appointed, he ran to the universities of Lagos and Ibadan to brainstorm with experts in related fields of Transportation Geography to keep himself abreast of the technical requirements and challenges. Hamzat’s ministry pioneered the introduction of the light rail in Lagos under the Jakande administration. The project was approved and launched by former President Shehu Shagari. The project, which was approved and launched by former President Shehu Shagari, was one of the casualties of military intervention of 1983. “The Metroline,” Hamzat said, “was to run through a 28.5 kilometre stretch of incredible twists and turns, ferrying more than 40,000 commuters every hour from the Yaba originating terminus to Marina, with a vaulting extension back to Agege. It was to involve 19 modern coaches hauled along rail-gauge viaduct conduit, propelled in most fast-moving fail-safe metronomic precision. “ The project was one of the first casualties of the military intervention in 1983. Following the violent change of government, Hamzat and many of his colleagues in the Jakande cabinet were hounded into detention by the military. After extensive investigations, nothing in ruminating was found against him. However, the coup did not draw the curtains on Hamzat’s political career. He returned to his business. Also, he enrolled for a writing course at the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Ogba. In the Third Republic, he bounced back as a chieftain of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). The Lagos chapter split into two, following the struggle for the ticket between Dapo Sarunmi and Agbalajobi, both from Epe. While Jakande and his group supported Agbalajobi, Primose Circle, which was made up of other progressives-Oluyole Olusi, Shitta-Bey, Oladele Ajomale, Bola Tinubu, Tola Kasali, Basorun and Hamzat, supported Sarunmi. However, both Sarunmi and Agbalajobi were disqualified by military President Ibrahim Babangida. Therefore, Jakande camp nominated Abiodun Ogunleye for the rescheduled primary. Sarunmi’s group supported Yomi Edu. Although Edu won the ticket, he lost the governorship election to Michael Otedola of the defunct National Republican Party (NRC). Hamzat was one of the supporters of Chief Moshood Abiola, presidential candidate of the SDP. When the historic June 12 poll won by him was annulled, the group demanded for its de-annullment. In fact, Hamzat, Olusi, Tinubu and others had to leave Sarunmi’s group when he accepted to serve as minister(secretary) in the Interim Government headed by Chief Ernest Shonekan. Later, the Third Republic went with the wind. In 1999, Hamzat became a founding member of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in Lagos State. The party nearly ran into turbulence because of the contest for the governorship ticket. In the race were Tinubu, Funso Wiliams, Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, Kofo Bucknor Akerele, Uthman Shodipe, Tawa Williams and Dapo Durosinmi-Etti. While Afenifere leaders supported Tinubu, one of them, Ganiyu Dawodu, opted for Funso Williams of Network Alliance. Tinubu won the ticket and the election. Reflecting on the tempestuous primary, Hamzat said: “Dawodu’s preference for Williams who had served in Abacha government over his own comrades who suffered in the trenches with him remains a puzzle.” On Tinubu, he said: “Tinubu had stood in the favouritism of the Justice Forum because of his daring role during the struggle against Abacha.” Hamzat  had wanted to serve as commissioner in Tinubu cabinet. But, the former governor objected, saying that he could not order an old man around. Therefore, Hamzat recommended the young and promising University of Lagos teacher, Dr. Muiz Banire, for a cabinet position. Although Tinubu never met Banire before, he made him a special adviser, and later, commissioner. Reminiscing on the appointment, Hamzat said: “Though I wanted to serve in Tinubu’s cabinet, fate prevailed against it. The governor summoned me to a meeting and declared: “my leader, I will like you to nominate anybody you want as your replacement for the transportation ministry. “But, I had not expected that I would be given a carte-blanche to nominate my replacement. Almost without reflection, I mentioned the name of Muiz Banire, the young man who had associated with me politically for close to 15 years. The governor never heard of him. Tinubu never met him, never recalled the name or connected such name even in the remoteness of any political association or linkage. He squinted his face, removed his glasses and glared at me in quixotically unspoken declaration:” who is that?” “The governor did not know Banire and was naturally curious about my choice. Tinubu, in his typical straight-laced confrontation, told Banire he did not know him from Adam and that the sole privilege of what he was being offered totally resided in the recommendation made by me. That was all as he urged him to uphold the weighty honour reposed in him.” Banire served in the Lagos State Executive Council for 12 years. Although Hamzat’s two children, Ganiyu and Olatunbosun, won the House of Representatives tickets at Mushin and Ifako Ijaye, the family had to make a sacrifice by surrendering the Ifako Ijaye ticket. Instead, Femi Onimole was given the ticket to represent Ifako-Ijaye. Hamzat was the National Auditor of AD. In that capacity, he witnessed the inclination of the party to support former President Olusegun Obasanjo for a second term, although, as he put it, even, if AD members were going to abide by the sacredness of an agreement to protect AD’s interest in the Southwest, “one could not trust the faithfulness of the ruling party.” Only Lagos, under the leadership of Tinubu, survived the 2003 political earthquake that swept across the region. To the consternation of party members, the National Chairman, Ahmed Abdulkadir, accepted defeat on behalf of five AD governors before accepting to serve in Obasanjo administration as Special Adviser on Manufacturing. Hamzat was also a witness to the controversy over 60:40 formula proposed for the sharing of elective and appointive positions by a committee headed by the late Chief Olaniwun Ajayi, following irreconcilable difference between the AD factions led by Abiodun Ogunleye and Dawodu. While Tinubu/Ogunleye/Hamzat/Tajudeen Olusi group were to take 60, Dawodu camp was to take 40. Tinubu tactically rejected the proposal, urging the Afenifere leader, Pa Abraham Adesanya, to give him the opportunity to consult with his group, which was in a clear majority. The proposal could not be implemented. Hamzat later succeeded Pa Ayo Fasanmi as National Vice Chairman of the AD(Southwest). He was also a leader of the Action Congress, which worked for the victory of Governor Babatunde Fashola (SAN) in 2007 and 2011, and APC which worked for the victory of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode in 2015. Hamzat was the leader of the Justice Forum. As a mark of respect and in recognition of his contributions to community development, Pa Hamzat was installed as the Olu of Afowora Sogade, few years back. Paying tribute to him, Lagos State APC Publicity Secretary Comrade Joe Igbokwe said Oba Hamzat will be remembered for his discipline, loyalty to the party, contributions to the welfare of Lagosians and commitment to the development of the Southwest.” Are said: “The greatest tribute we can pay to him is to emulate his virtues; his philosophical calmness, power of reflection and analysis, extreme caution and strategic reservations, his political maturity and composure, self-esteem, his capacity for thinking before acting, his sense of tolerance and justice and belief in the collective welfare of people.”