During a study tour of health facilities in Lagos State, senior executive course participants of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) interacted with stakeholders on how to improve the sector. They commended the state government for making its health insurance scheme mandatory for all residents, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF. Amid the hustle and bustle in Lagos, the delegation  of some senior executive course participants of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) arrived  the state  on a study tour of its health sector. The visitors were all united with a mission – how to help the country evolve the best funding arrangement that can make universal healthcare coverage a reality. In Lagos, the delegation’s first port of call was the state secretariat in Alausa, where key stakeholders and heads of strategic institutions in the state health sector had converged to brief the visiting public policy experts. The tour was facilitated by NIPSS, in collaboration with the Development Research and Project Centre, (DRPC) through Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health at Scale (PACFaH@Scale). During the one-week study tour, the delegation visited the Lagos State UniversityTeaching Hospital (LASUTH) and some primary healthcare centres in Palmgroove, Mushin and Lagos Island before the course participants paid homage at the palace of Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu. The visitors also interacted with civil society organisations that are working in the health sector. While explaining the reason behind the trip, Dr. Stanley Ukpai, technical advisor, PACFaH@Scale, said the tour aimed to find out how to strengthen the primary healthcare system to achieve universal health coverage in the state and the challenges militating against this objective. Through the tour, he added, the delegation obtained feedbacks and input from stakeholders and civil society organisations on the challenges and opportunities of working within the primary healthcare system to realise universal health coverage for the teeming population of the state. Besides being part of the requisite requirements of the NIPSS course, which thrives on evidence-based research, the study tour was designed to help participants learn more about the intricacies of public policy formulation and implementation and why policies work or fail to deliver set objectives. Depending on the theme of the course, participants are expected to embark on national, continental and intercontinental study tours on any issue deemed critical to the country’s development aspirations with a view to submitting actionable recommendations to the Presidency. This year’s theme, according to Dr. Nasirudeen Usman, leader of the delegation and acting director of studies at NIPSS, focuses on how Nigeria can evolve the best funding arrangement that can bring about universal healthcare coverage in the country. The study tour indeed came at an auspicious time, as Lagos gets ready to roll out its mandatory health insurance scheme fully next month. Ahead of the much-awaited launch, Dr. Jide Idris, commissioner for health, told the delegation that technology would be deployed heavily into the scheme to simplify the application process for enrollees, stressing that technology would be vital to the success of the scheme. He stressed that the state government is currently creating awareness and capturing people into the scheme, adding that a reliance on technology will help in the collection of data of those enrolled. “With this technology, many people will be easily captured and they can easily access the scheme through the mobile application,” he said. As the law setting up the scheme stipulates, all residents – regardless of their financial or educational status – are expected to be captured by the compulsory scheme, which aims to be the first programme that achieves universal healthcare coverage in the country. No fewer than 120,000 persons have enrolled in the health insurance, though not all are actively enjoying the service for now. He said Lagos is not in a hurry to start full implementation of the scheme to avoid the mistakes that have marred similar initiatives in the country, especially the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), which has failed to achieve universal healthcare coverage because the law setting it up made it optional for the people. Having realised that countries that have achieved universal health coverage for their populations are the ones that have successfully implemented mandatory health insurance schemes, many stakeholders in the nation’s health have begun to campaign that state-supported health insurance schemes be made compulsory in order to provide coverage for all citizens. To avoid the pitfalls of NHIS, Lagos has chosen to make the scheme compulsory for all residents. “Countries that have successfully implemented health insurance scheme made it mandatory. Again, in those countries, a lot of money is being pumped into it, and then taxation is high so they can fund it. Our scheme is mandatory for every resident,” Idris added. The delegation commended the state for making the scheme mandatory. “That is the global best practice; you cannot cover the whole population unless you make it mandatory. If we have compulsory insurance for our vehicles, we should be able to have compulsory health insurance for ourselves,” Dr. Usman, who led NIPSS delegation, said. The scheme, which was launched with fanfare last December by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, aims to address core issues in healthcare delivery and provide financial protection against illnesses and attendant uncertainties inherent in out-of-pocket payment system. Besides being projected to reduce health issues or mortality rate in the state by at least 10 per cent, it will also deliver significant economic benefits to the state, as the statewide health insurance scheme will empower residents to have access to quality, affordable healthcare services. And to enjoy full access to services on offer, all that is required is to pay a premium of N40,000 yearly for a family of six. A family, as defined by the law setting up the scheme, comprises the mother, father and four children below 18 years; while enrolling every additional family member below 18 years attracts N6,000 per person per year. However, if the person is above 18 years, it attracts additional premium of N8,500 per person yearly. For single individuals, it is for N8, 500 per year, but this can be upgraded any time after marriage with additional charges. As for employees in the state public service, the state takes care of 75 per cent of the premium, while each civil servant is expected to pay 25 per cent. On what specific items does the health insurance cover, Prof Anthonia Ogbera, provost, Lagos State College of Medicine (LASCOM), told the NIPSS delegation that said it takes care of common adult and childhood ailments, maternal and child services, preventive healthcare services, selected non-communicable diseases and surgeries. She however lamented that poor knowledge of the scheme among residents may be the bane of the new initiative, adding that raising more awareness is the “only way to make many people buy into the scheme.” Unlike many states that have eliminated the middlemen called health management organisations (HMOs) in their health insurance schemes, Lagos has vowed to retain them, believing that HMOs have a vital role to play in deepening enrolment of the scheme by selling it directly to the people in all the nooks and crannies of the state. According to Prof Adetokumbo Fabamwo, chief medical director, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), no fewer than 10  HMOs will be engaged for the scheme, with each assigned its catchment areas. “Registration is state-wide and that is why we decided to allocate HMOs to certain areas for ease of capture. If an HMO is said to cover Mushin for example, they will go out there and capture all the citizens of the area into the scheme because the higher the enrollees, the higher their capitation fee. If you tell people in Mushin to look for any HMO and join, enrolment will be slow. For the formal sector, we gave them a choice of HMOs to choose, but for informal sector, we allocated HMOs to them so as to achieve one hundred per cent coverage,” he said. But Obioma Obikeze, a consultant for DRPC, expressed concern over the payment arrangement for civil servants, stressing that workers at the lowest rung of the ladder will be disadvantaged if every state employee, irrespective of status, pays 25 per cent premium. Like Obikeze, doctors in the state insisted there are loopholes in the scheme, saying it cannot succeed under the planned arrangement. Lamenting that the state government did not carry them (doctors) along in the drafting of the document, Dr. Moruf Abdulsalam, publicity secretary, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in Lagos, told the delegation that the scheme is fraught with pitfalls, such as low capitation. “Even at our national level, we observed that some states are patterning their health scheme on the model of the NHIS, which gives low capitation. Some states want to pay as low as N200, while Lagos is planning to pay N365. If an enrollee under family unit pays N3,333 monthly (40, 000 per annum), the health service providers will only be paid N365 capitation while the bulk of the money goes to HMOs and other administrative fees. “The challenge now is that there is increased awareness and enrollees visit hospitals more frequently, at least two or three times in a month. That’s why providers are complaining because there is no way they can make profit and give quality service in this kind of arrangement. To treat simple malaria costs at least N3, 000. Now imagine when an enrollee comes to the facility twice in a month,” he said. Besides complaining that the scheme does not allow enrollees to make the choice of HMOs under which they will be enrolled, NMA also faulted the payment arrangement for civil servants, saying it encourages multiple deductions. “A family is supposed to pay N40,000, but what we found in the model for the formal sector where the enrollee pays N10,000 subsidised premium is that if a man and wife are public servants, the fee will be deducted from both of their accounts amounting to double payment because the scheme is mandatory.” He, however, promised that the doctors will work with the government to address the grey areas. Oba Akiolu, however, threw his weight behind the delegation’s study tour, saying he was delighted that the focus of the trip was to understand the challenges affecting healthcare delivery system in the state with a view to providing solutions. He expressed optimism that Lagos would benefit from the study tour of the NIPSS delegation. Acknowledging that qualitative healthcare system is vital to improved life expectancy, the monarch said government should improve budgetary allocation to the health sector in line with recommendations of the World Health Organisation (WHO), adding that there is a nexus between quality healthcare and economic development.