THE  Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has urged both private and public sector players to take advantage of the fourth industrial revolution. Its Vice President and Chairman, Trade Promotion Board, Mr Gabriel Idahosa, who spoke ahead of 2019  ICTEL Expo slated for between July 16 and 17 at Landmark Event Centre, Lagos, said already, information communication technology (ICT) contributes between 10 and 11 per cent to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP), stressing that much more needed to be done to increase the conribution. Idahosa said although the highest sectoral contribution of ICT to GDP in Africa is about 14 per cent, he urged stakeholders to ensure that full advantage of the fourth industrial revolution is taken since the nation and indeed, the continent lost out in previous industrial revolutions. The fourth industrial revolution has digital economy as its fulcrum and is being powered by innovations such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) Internet of Things, (IoT) and Internet of Everything (IoE), robotics, big data, augmented reality etc. Also, LCCI President, Babatunde Runwase, said the theme of the conference: “Fourth Industrial Revolution: The Nigerian Story”, was specifically chosen to awaken stakeholders in the economy on the need to brace for the digital race that new trends will unleash on the industry. He said the forum will provide inspiration for smalll and medium enterprises (SMEs) to showcase their businesses and tell their stories while it will provide an opportunity for experts to set agenda for policy makers. He said: “The theme is quite apt. It is not because it is contemporary and topical, but because Africa and indeed, Nigeria seemed to be slow in coming to terms with the far reaching implications of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Secondly, it is gratifying that it will provide great opportunity to influence national discourse on the culture of enterprise from an ICT positive perspective. That is the significance of telling the Nigerian story. “This Expo will provide the required inspiration, which many SMEs need in their quest for improved performance. Perhaps, more importantly, the Expo will provide aspriring enterpreneurs, tech start-ups and thousands of unemployed and under-employed youths yet another opportunity for an enriching learning experience, capacity building, mentoring, connecting with investors and employers of labour and listening to life changing accounts from different stakeholders.”