Leagues across Europe will on the 12th and 18th of May see the 2018/2019 come to an end. Whilst some have been crowned champions, others are waiting for the final league match to know their faith. As the season winds down, we take a look at how the EPL, La Liga, Ligue 1, Bundesliga and Serie A stands and those probably to be the winner. English Premier League Manchester City will start the day a point ahead of Liverpool following their nervy win over Leicester. City face Brighton at the Amex Stadium with the Seagulls already assured of their Premier League safety, while Liverpool host Wolves. City knows a win will make them champions but any-slip up and a Liverpool win at Anfield would take the title to the red half of Merseyside. There is still a very slim chance of the two teams finishing on the same points, goal difference and goals scored, which would mean a playoff to decide the destination of the title. Liverpool would need to draw 4-4 with Wolves and Brighton need to beat City 4-0. It would be a fitting end. Spanish La Liga Barcelona next match is against Getafe. The Catalonia side had already been crowned champion with 83 points and leading second-place Atletico Madrid with 9 points and third place Real Madrid with 15 points. The Spanish giant must pick themselves up after their embarrassing display against Liverpool at Anfield for their penultimate LaLiga game of the season as the Spanish champions host Getafe in what could be an anti-climactic atmosphere at Camp Nou. Atletic Madrid will be at home to Sevilla and Real Madrid away to Real Vallecano. Final Day Match (18th May): Elbar vs Barcelona, Real Madrid vs Real Betis, Levante vs Atletic Madrid.  German Bundesliga The Bundesliga title is between Bayern Munich and Borrusia Dortmund. Bayern leads Dortmund with 2 with 75 points after playing a goalless draw with RB Leipzig, with Dortmund beating Fortuna 3-2 at Signal Iduna Park. For Bayern, the draw against RB Leipzig see them miss the chance to seal their seventh consecutive  Bundesliga title. Final Day Match: FC Bayern Munich vs Eintracht, Borussia Mönchengladbach vs Borussia Dortmund.  French Ligue 1 Paris Saint-Germain clinched the French league title without kicking a ball as second-place Lille could only draw 0-0 at Toulouse on the 21th of April. It leads second-place Losc Lille with 19 points at 88 points.  Italian Serie A Juventus tied a record in winning its eighth straight Serie A title, clinching the top-flight championship with five games left to go. Juventus’s 2-1 victory against Fiorentina on Saturday clinched the crown, adding to the club’s national record with a 35th Scudetto. Juventus leads second-place Napoli with 16 points, having 89 points. 