Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday inaugurated world-class Bariga Waterfront Jetty and Ferries, as well as the Ilaje Road in Somolu Local Government. He said the projects were in line with his administration’s policy of developing an efficient, integrated transport model, which would ease gridlock. The governor said the projects would solve cultism, clashes, crises and other security problems associated with the area. He inaugurated five ferries and the Ilaje Road, saying the projects were part of a plan to decongest roads by getting more people to use water transportation. Of the ferries, four are passenger ferries, while one is a car barge, which can move cars to the other jetties as may be required by people who want to drive in the other locations. The jetty has a 150-car parking lot where people can park their cars and get on a ferry that will take them to other parts of the state. Ambode said: “The Ilaje Road will serve as a very good access road to the jetty and open up this community. The Bariga Jetty will serve as a terminal where people can access ferry services and get to other jetties in Ikorodu, Marina, Falomo and Badore.” He said: “When we assumed office four years ago, we set out on a mission to make every community economically livable. This has been the guiding principle behind spreading our projects across the state. “When we started this project, the initial brief was to upgrade roads in this community. But after an assessment of the community, it was clear that there was a bigger opportunity to improve the lives of our people and security, make Bariga a transport hub and connect the community to other parts of the state through water transportation. “The delivery of this road, jetty and our new ferries signifies our commitment to the people of Lagos State to continuously provide the critical infrastructure that will improve their standard of living. It will also be an impetus to increase the socio-economic activities of this axis. “The provision of comfortable, safe and reliable ferry services for the residents of Bariga and its environs will improve journey times that will lead to greater productivity. “With these projects, our state is on track with our goal of establishing an integrated transport management system. These facilities will impact on Lagosians’ lives as we strive to address gridlock, reduce travel time, improve road connectivity and reduce flooding.” The governor, whose tenure ends on May 29, assured Lagosians that the next administration “will continue along these lines and build on the progressive strides the state has recorded in the last 20 years under successive administrations.” Works and Infrastructure Commissioner Mr. Ade Akinsanya had said that besides the jetty, road and ferries, the government was also building 12 other roads in Ilaje and Bariga. He urged Lagosians to take over ownership of the projects. The Baale of Ilaje, High Chief Kayode Ajetiwa, who spoke on behalf of the community, thanked Governor Ambode. He said residents would remember him for transforming their areas and making life comfortable for them.