‘Operation Puff Adder’ yields big harvests PARADE figures  The police had bountiful harvests –  of suspected criminals – yesterday. In Lagos, Commissioner Zubairu Muazu paraded 159 suspects who were hauled in by the new anti-crime strategy “Operation Puff Adder”. Among them were robbery, kidnapping and cultism suspects. On display were 43 arms and 80 ammunition, which the police chief said were recovered from the suspects. In Jigawa State, 27 suspects were arrested, also in “Operation Puff Adder”, which Police chief Mohammad Adamu, whose appointment as Inspector-General was confirmed yesterday, directed all state commissioners to launch in a bid to push back criminals who are troubling Nigerians across the states. Of the suspects, 21 were arrested for alleged robbery in Dutse Local Government Area. Others are being held for alleged kidnapping. Among them are suspects who abducted an Indian, Mr. Adre Palsin, on March 18 in Jahun Local Government Area. Police spokesman Abdu Jinjri said the feat was achieved through surveillance, raids on black spots, patrols and co-operation with the public and other security agencies. No fewer than 24 suspects were arrested in Kogi State, according to Commissioner of Police Hakeem Busari, who described four of them as herdsmen. He said the suspects were arrested following the launch of “Operation Puff Adder”. The suspects are being held for alleged kidnapping in the Obajana-Kabba raod. Ten were arrested for alleged robbery in Lokoja, Ogugu, Olamaboro, Ayangba and Dekina local government areas. The police in Edo State are holding ten suspects over the abduction of a girl who was sold for N850,000. Also yesterday, a military delegation visited Katsina State where bandits have killed many residents. The top officers are to assess the situation and prepare an appropriate response which will prevent further killings. Launching Operation Puff Adder in Lagos State, Muazu warned criminals to quit the state or meet their waterloo. He paraded 159 robbery, kidnap and cult suspects and displayed 43 arms and 80 ammunition, which were recovered from them. Muazu described Puff Adder as a  special operation introduced by Inspector-General (IG) Mohammed Adamu, adding that it is aimed at predominating and reclaiming the public space from criminals. According to him, those for the operation are drawn from Police Mobile Force, Tactical Units, Criminal intelligence Bureau, Criminal Investigation Department, Rapid Response Squad, task force and conventional policemen. The men, he said, were ordered to ensure zero tolerance for crimes and deal with criminals. The police chief said he would take the battle to criminals, adding that Lagosians have a right to a peaceful and orderly state.