•A consistent progressive and patriot He was in many ways an unusual politician who perceived and practiced politics as a serious vocation of selfless commitment to the service of humanity. When he was appointed as Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation by the Alhaji Lateef Jakande administration in 1979, for instance, Oba Muftau Olatunji Hamzat, who transited to eternal life on May 12, held extensive consultations with experts in transport geography at the University of Lagos, in order to have a grasp of some of the technical requirements for the job. It was thus not surprising that it was his ministry that initiated the path-breaking Lagos Metroline light rail project, which had reached advanced stage of execution before the military unfortunately truncated the project, after the termination of the Second Republic in 1983. With the demise of Oba Hamzat, Lagos State and indeed Nigeria has lost one of her most consistent, patriotic and public-spirited progressive politicians. A successful banker in the private sector before opting for politics, he began his eventful political career as a Ward Executive of the Action Group (AG) in the old Mushin Local Government in the First Republic. Keeping faith with his progressive ideology, Oba Hamzat was a member of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s Committee of Friends, which transformed into the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) in the Second Republic. Although he was elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly in 1979, his membership of the legislature was short-lived, following his appointment into the state executive council as a commissioner. In the aborted Third Republic, Oba Hamzat was a member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and was one of those who worked assiduously for the victory of the party’s candidate, Chief M.K.O. Abiola in the historic June 12, 1993, presidential election. He also played a key role in the protracted struggle to revalidate the mandate, which was unjustly annulled by military president, General Ibrahim Babangida’s regime. With the democratic restoration of 1999, Oba Hamzat was a foundation member of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) and rose to become the party’s national vice chairman for the South West. He was also a frontline member of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), which joined other parties in the coalition that formed the current ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). One of Oba Hamzat’s enduring contributions to politics was the formation of the Justice Forum, one of the most influential and cohesive political caucuses in Lagos State. The group has been known to play a very important role in the outcome of every election in Lagos State since 1999. An ardent political mentor to younger generations of politicians, Oba Hamzat had been a member of the Lagos State Governors Advisory Council (GAC) since 1999, and in that capacity he contributed significantly to the developmental strides recorded in the state over the last two decades, with successive governors benefitting from his wisdom and wealth of experience. The tremendous success of Oba Hamzat’s life is even more amazing since he had the benefit only of a modest education passing the Cambridge examination in the fifth form after enrolling at Christ School, Ilubirin, Lagos, in 1955. He took private tutorials in various secretarial studies and mastered the knowledge of shorthand and typing on his own. This enabled him to obtain employment at UTC Motors on the then very generous salary of 12 pounds per annum in 1959. After obtaining his banking certification through extramural classes of the University of Ibadan, he was employed as a banker by Banquo Internationale Pour L’Afrique Occidentale, later Afribank, in 1962. He retired as branch manager of the bank in Kano in 1975 and then began his adventure in politics. Alhaji Olatunji Hamzat was the Olu of Afowowa Sogade in Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State. May his soul rest in peace.