The Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) has announced its readiness to mount SHOOT! 2019; a professional and capacity building training workshop designed for film makers, television, radio, information and communication professionals. The training workshop also targets scholars, students of film, television, theatre arts, advertising, public relations and upcoming/intermediate media professionals. According to a statement by NFC’s spokesperson, Brian Etuk, SHOOT! 2019 is scheduled to begin on Sunday, May 16 to Saturday, June 22, 2019 at the National Film Institute, Jos, Plateau State. He said the Corporation has commenced activities to ensure that the professional and capacity building training workshop meets its objectives, which includes upping skills as well as production techniques of participants, which have arisen due to emerging technology upgrades, and the fast growing digitized communication spectrum. The statement listed the training workshop rubrics as Scripting and Acting, Digital Cinematography, Directing, Production Management, Digital Editing for Film & Television, Digital Still Photography, Animation, Set Design & Construction; Costume and Make-up, as well as Producing Skills for Film, Television & Commercials. According to Etuk, SHOOT! 2019 is the 9th edition in the series of the professional and capacity building training workshop instituted by the Corporation in 2005 to provide training opportunities for Nigerians across all spheres of the creative industry. Over 2,700 persons have so far participated in past editions of SHOOT! drawn from the private, public sectors; the military and para-military, the police, media professionals, students, scholars, film associations and guilds as well as private practicing individuals. Interested participants should address all enquiries to the Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigerian Film Corporation, through the email – mdnigerianfilms@gmail.com or visit the Corporation’s official website: nfc.gov.ng for enquiries.