Mr Daniel Iroegbu, Executive Director, Daniel Iroegbu Global Health Foundation, has called for active engagement of men and boys in breaking the silence on menstruation and improving sustainable sanitary facilities for women and girls. Iroegbu told the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) that government, institutions and organisations should also provide functional sanitary facilities in schools and workplaces to enable girls and young women to effectively manage their menses in privacy and with respect and dignity. He called for a reorientation from the culture of silence and shame surrounding sexuality and menstruation. According to Iroegbu, menstruation is an integral and normal part of a woman’s life, existence, well-being and dignity, which takes place every month and shows that the female body is healthy. He said there were widespread misconceptions, negative attitude and general silence surrounding menstruation due to consistent lack of knowledge and education among girls and the community. The director said ignorance, inaccuracy, false information and poor menstrual health education increase the unnecessarily social, emotional, physical and psychological trauma girls and young women encounter due to menstruation. “In communities, menstruation is surrounded by long held patriarchal perceptions and several deep rooted cultural, religious and traditional taboos, restrictions and harmful practices. “Many cultures believe that menstruating women should isolate themselves in huts/ rooms because the menstrual blood pollutes the house. “Some believe that burning menstrual cloths has a consequence of causing itching all over the body, change in body colour and generates internal heat in the woman body or causes cancer and infertility because human blood is burnt,”he said. Iroegbu said some cultures and religions place many restrictions on menstruating women such as restrictions on movements, cooking for their husband and preparing meals, eating certain diets and carrying newborn among others. He noted that poor menstrual hygiene management among in-school girls and young women especially lead to school absenteeism and poor enrolment, reduction in concentration during learning, especially among rural girls that could not afford sanitary pad. “Menstruating girls and young women face some mental, emotional and psychological trauma and difficulties during menstruation due to inadequate water to wash, menstrual pain, shame, embarrassment, fear, weakness, discomfort and anxiety over inability to effectively manage their menses in privacy. “They prefer to stay at home to reduce fear of leakage and being teased from their male classmates when they notice leakage. He, however, said these negative attitudes, taboos and restrictions violates a girl -child’s fundamental human right to non-discrimination, equality, education, health, privacy, free movement and freedom from inhuman and degrading treatment and inflicts on their dignity, reinforcing gender inequality Nigeria Child Right Bill, 2003. The foundation, he said, was working on “Drany” reusable sanitary pad innovation in partnership with Days for Girls (DfG) to increase access to clean and safe options and offer variety of sustainable solutions and environmentally friendly feminine hygiene. He stressed that this innovation flitted beautifully into the low-middle resource setting feminine hygiene needs as it delivers exceptional leakage free, affordable, economy, quality, and safe pad for females. “They are reliable, effective, efficient and exceptional because it is made from local content, accessible, available and affordable. ” Our initiative also aims at reducing menstrual-related waste that are sent to landfills as it cannot be burnt while a good portion are littered on blocked drainages due to poor waste management system. “This innovation supports girls in low resource setting to safely manage their menstruation, advocate against restriction that violates female gender rights and give girls back 180 school days. “The innovation gives women uninterrupted productive work hours and ability to unleash their full potentials for the development of their homes and communities,” he said. He added that the media plays the role of being a source of correct information to improve healthy behaviour through varieties of channels. This, he said, would in turn promote the expansion of reach audience, especially among the rural girl-child, encourage sustainable actions as well as promote behavioural change.