At least eight suspected traffic robbers were at the weekend arrested by the police in Lagos during a raid to stem the tide, the command said on Sunday. Seven of the suspects were apprehended around Ketu and Kosefo, and one held at Festac, said spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) in a statement issued Sunday evening. According to Elkana, the Police Commissioner Zubairu Muazu had directed an onslaught on hoodlums who usually took advantage of gridlock to unleash terror on motorists. Among those arrested were a certain Gabazine; Ayomide Ayobami and Taye Onofowokan, both living at Agboyi Ketu; Bamidele Ogunbanjo, 30. He said a police surveillance team at about 5:30am on May 24, foiled a robbery attempt at Kosofe where Garbazine and two others were apprehended and a snatched phone recovered from them and returned to the owner. “Same day, the surveillance team at the same spot arrested two traffic robbery suspects attempting to rob some unsuspecting road users. Two jack knives and a toy pistol were recovered. “On the same day, at about 12:05am, surveillance patrol team deployed to Ketu Bus Stop arrested two traffic robbery suspects- Ayomide Ayobami and Taye Onofowokan, both living at Agboyi Ketu. A pistol with three live ammunition and a jack knife were recovered from them. “On the same day at about 1:00am surveillance patrol team attached to Festac Police Station arrested one Bamidele Ogunbanjo, 30, of Prayer Estate Amuwo Odofin. One locally made pistol with one live ammunition was recovered,” he said. Elkana, who confirmed earlier report by The Nation on the dead of a motorcyclist, his wife and six-year-old son at Aga in Ikorodu, said reports made at the Igbogbo Division indicated that the man, Enifeh Akupa Omomo (Charles Enifa), 42, killed his wife, Faith and the boy, Glorious, before committing suicide. The police spokesman also confirmed The Nation’s report last week on two young men found dead inside a grocery shop at Ojota. Meanwhile, the police said they arrested two suspected cultists during matriculation at Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) on May 21. Elkana said a distress call was received on the sighting of armed men and policemen from Sabo Division deployed to the college during matriculation where Balogun Oluwadamilare, 24, and Badmus Idris, 23, were arrested. “One Baretta Pistol with four live ammunition and three expended ammunition were recovered from the suspects. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court,” he said. 