 Managing Director International Lottery and Gaming Limited, Mr. Manolis Lambrakis has said Bettabet.ng reflects the initiative of the frontline gaming firm to reach out to the teaming sports fans in Nigeria. According to Lambrakis during the launch of the new gaming site , “The desire of the company was not just to establish a sports betting platform but also to provide job opportunities for Nigerians.” Addressing unemployment among Nigerian youths is the core philosophy behind the establishment of the company, he emphasised. “We are not in the market to receive money from our customers alone, our desire is to provide social, economic and financial upliftment to youths and help the government reduce unemployment across the country. “Bettabet.ng is a product of years of research into the yearning of sports betting fans in Nigeria, hence the decision to incorporate popular sports from other climes including basketball, volleyball, tennis, casino, jackpot, keno among others which are not yet household names in Nigeria but have received the craving of betting fans who longed for a platform that offers them the opportunity to bet on them,” he explained. Speaking on delivering value to betting fans,  Mr Lambrakis  notes: “Aside the popular top European leagues, Champions and Europa Leagues and other football leagues that commands tremendous followership among Nigerians, our research indicated that sports such as baseball, ice hockey, water polo, snooker, cricket, Aussie Rules, Futsal, floorball and darts, that are not traditionally accepted in this part of the world are attracting the attention of sport betting fans, hence our desire to offer fans the chance to make a living from betting on them. The Managing Director says the firm has acquired all necessary documents from regulatory authorities, as the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) visited the firm’s corporate headquarters in Lagos recently to inspect facilities and preparedness before granting license of operation. Marketing Director. Mike Ogor said the online portal comes with seamless payment system and he allayed fears of electronic fraud as he explained that the betting firm has put in place 100% security features. Mr. Ogor noted that Bettabet.ng has partnership with leading payment solutions providers in Nigeria for fast digital payment once a player wins. “Just as International Lottery and Gaming Limited was the first to introduce blockchain lottery into the gaming industry in Nigeria last year, Bettabet.ng is out with another first. With our motto, #Bettayourlife, l wish to say there is no better place for sports betting fans to activate the desire to improve their economic status than on Bettabet.ng. Fans get to enjoy up to N100,000 welcome bonus on their first deposits. We are working with leading digital payment partners to pay promptly,” he enthused. Naija Lottery is the trade name of International Lottery and Gaming Limited (ILGL). 