Only a holistic approach to Apapa gridlock and port congestion will resolve the menace, outgoing  Managing Director, APM Terminal (APMT), Martins Jacob has said. According to him, the major challenges are lack of access and, bad roads and the absence of an efficient traffic management system. He also said identifying and allowing only truckers with valid transactions into the port as well as monitoring and removing idling or broken down trucks from the roads were a challenge. “Poor state of trucks coming to the port, which makes it difficult to service them, cause a number of breakdowns affecting the terminal operations. Fatigue on the part of the drivers after the long wait on the port access road also has potential to cause accident leading to more gridlock,” he said. Jacob stressed that “absence of pre-advised information on container visit through the state to the quay” was also a major challenge that needed to be tackled. He explained that APMT’s clearance system was fully automated, adding that it only resorted to manual for only about two hours, some weeks ago when they had minor challenges. “Sometimes we stop transaction when the outbound traffic is not moving. APM Terminals is a company that designs, builds and operates port and terminal facilities. It also provides cargo inland services for cargo transportation between port facilities and inland locations, as well as other associated cargo handling functions,” he said. Jacob, who spoke while meeting with the Senate Committee on Works, assured the committee of his company’s cooperation with efforts aimed at solving the Apapa gridlock and congestion. He said that was why the firm welcomed the idea of using the Lilypond Terminal as a temporary holding bay for trucks, an initiative he noted was yielding positive results. Meanwhile, Alhaji Mohammed Ahmed has been appointed as the new Managing Director of the firm. In this capacity, Ahmed will oversee the operations of the company in Nigeria, Benin Republic and Ivory Coast. The new APM Terminals Managing Director is an experienced leader with a demonstrated history of delivering strong financial results in shipping, logistics, maritime, ports, towage, light-offshore and oil & gas services across a number of markets and industries spanning Africa, Asia, Middle East and Europe. “I am delighted to be back in Nigeria to contribute my quota to the development of this great country. Nigeria is a huge market with a great potential for growth. “We will work with the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and other government agencies to reposition Nigerian ports for optimum performance and ensure efficiency and prompt service delivery to customers. “We are also committed to supporting the Federal Government’s export drive to diversify the nation’s revenue base and reduce overdependence on oil,”Ahmed said. Ahmed holds a BSc in Economics & Social Policy, Birkbeck, University of London and brings about two decades experience into his new role. Prior to his appointment, Ahmed served as the Managing Director of Svitzer for Asia, Middle East, Africa and Russia (AMEA) from January 2016 to December 2018, where he supervised the operation of a modern fleet of 90 vessels operated by over 1,200 highly trained and professional crew and onshore staff. He also had full responsibilities for managing the company’s operations in India, Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, U.A.E, Sohar (Oman), Muscat (Oman), Angola, Egypt, Morocco and Russia, serving oil and gas majors and port operators. Alhaji Ahmed had earlier served in Nigeria as General Manager, Commercial Planning from 2008 to 2010 where he had responsibility for trade strategy, performance management, capacity, market intelligence, and business development, among others, in Nigeria, Ghana, Benin, Niger and Togo. APM Terminals operates one of the world’s most comprehensive port and integrated inland service networks. With a team of 22,000 industry professionals, it operates a network of 76 ports and over 100 inland services locations across the globe. The company leverages more than a century of industry experience to design and build high-quality container terminals, and provide port and inland services for cargo handling and transportation between port facilities and inland locations