The governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has promised that his administration would create 1million jobs for Abians within the next four years of his administration. This is even as he promised to consolidate on the achievement recorded by his administration in the last four years. Ikpeazu stated this at the Umuahia Township stadium during his inauguration speech after being sworn-in for second term in office. The governor who also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for supporting the vision of the Enyimba Economic City to be sited in three Local Governments of Ugwunagbo, Ukwa and East and West respectively promised to sustain the ease of doing business in the state. Ikpeazu who agreed that much is needed to be done to better the lots of the indigenes of the state, pledged to do all that he could to ensure that Abians enjoy dividend of democracy. “In 2015 we initiated some of the enablers which we think were going to be critical to the framing up of our pillars of development. These enablers include health, security, ease of doing business and tax reforms. “I stand here to pledge that I am ready to do more and that I shall give my best to the service of this state. “We have taken note of the areas that we fall short and ran an internal review of our processes with a few towards adjusting our systems to yield better quality of services. We have noted areas that we got it wrong and we are committed to make amends. “In the health sector, I am happy to say that despite the fact that there is so much to be done, we have been able to stamp our authority in ensuring that today, Abia has a robust intensive care facility that responds to even those facing one health challenge or the other. “We have tried to renovate four General Hospitals at Okipke, Ikwuano, Nkporo and Arochukwu and we hope that we will be able to add more to this list within the first hundred days in office of this administration. “For ease of doing business, in 2015 Abia was number 34 among the 36 States of Nigeria, but I am proud to say that a few months ago, this state was called to receive an award from World Bank which was handed over by no other person than the Vice President of the country, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as one of the five most improved states in terms of ease of doing business in Nigeria. “The primary focus of our administration in the next four years will be the consolidation on the achievement of our first tenure, completing all ongoing projects, creating avenues for our teeming youths to have jobs and be self-sufficient. We are poised to create 1million jobs before our tenure is over. Our administration is a trans-generational one. While we meet the needs of the youths today, we will ensure that we lay a solid foundation for tomorrow for the sake of our children. We will continue to run on the five pillars of development and enablers and they will remain our guiding principles even in the days ahead. I am happy to announce to you today that Abia State has become a better corporate citizen in the comity of states. We are now respected and appreciated as the SME capital of Nigeria and even beyond as we have taken our advocacy for other African countries for them to take note. The World Bank is collaborating with Abia State in the area of water, sanitation and rural infrastructure. This added impetus will begin to yield fruits before the end of year 2019 and our people will be better for it. Even in the area of direct investment, Aba and Abia State is the new pride destination in our country today. I can’t end this speech without mentioning our strides in Enyimba economic city. You must have heard me talk about the Enyimba Economic City. This will be the legacy of this administration; our flagship project, the signpost of the size of our vision. “The Enyimba Economic City is spread across over 9,800 hectares of massive industrial area, spanning through three local government areas of Ugwunagbo, Ukwa East and West areas. “We anticipate that 650, 000 jobs will be created, 300, 000 units of urban housing will be built. 1.5million people will live and work within the Enyimba Economic City. 2000 industrial businesses and units will be established there. An annual output value of about $5billion will be realized in this city. “The pointer to the value of this project is that the federal government of Nigeria has invested into it by taking 20percent equity worth over 100bn. The multiple effects of the project on the rest of Abia are better imagined. This project will certainly succeed. “I will like at this juncture to thank President Muhammadu Buhari for looking beyond partisan politics to give his full blessing to the Enyimba Economic city. As a people, we are eternally grateful. “Ndi Abia, once again, our destiny is in our hands, let us seize it for the sake of today, posterity, history and generations unborn.”