Life in Rugan Ardo community, a small, sleepy, rustic Fulani settlement under the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), is hard. The community lacks all the social amenities needed to make modern life comfortable. But of the numerous challenges facing the residents, access to clean water comes top. Finding clean water, for 50-year-old Salamatu Alhaji and her two friends, Safia Muhammed and Zainab Musa, was a difficult task. Each day, the women would trek to fetch water from a stream. At some point, the women would sleep in the bush in order to be the first to access the stream in the morning. Their search for water was worse during the dry season. They would walk a long distance to scoop water from a small, shallow pit beside a sizeable rock. The water from the well and the pit is unfit for drinking, but the residents have no choice, Salamatu narrated to this reporter. That struggle for clean water has come to an end as the Centre for Communication and Social Impact (CCSI) donated a solar-powered borehole and four blocks of toilets and bathrooms to the community. On that day, the sleepy community came to life. Men, women, the old, and children trooped out to witness the commissioning of a borehole project expected to deliver clean water to their doorstep. “Before this borehole, we used to trek for two hours – during dry season before we can get water. Sometimes we sleep in the bush so that we can wake up in the morning and be the first to fetch water from the stream,” she said with the help of an interpreter. CCSI’s Executive Director CCSI, Mrs. Babafunke Fagbemi, said the provision of WASH facilities to the community was one of the ways the organisation gives back to the society. According to her, majority of the diseases killing children and pregnant women in the country are preventable if measures are put in place to promote good hygiene and the consumption of portable water across the country. “Before now, members of this community travel over three kilometers to fetch water from the river which they often share with their herds of cattle.. “What we have provided here is a solar paneled borehole that would guarantee regular supply of water clean water for the people of this community and toilets that would ensure an end to open defecation and give women and men the dignity they deserve. “We are excited when we see the smile of relief and happiness on the faces of the women and children who have had to bear the brunt of the WASH deficiencies in this community. By providing easy access to clean water and toilets, we have helped in alleviating their suffering so they can use their time for more productive ventures,” she said. Unknown to many, and even the community, poor access to improved water and sanitation has remained a major contributing factor to high morbidity and mortality rates among children under the age of five. The consumption of contaminated water and poor sanitary conditions result in increased vulnerability to water-borne diseases, including diarrhea which leads to deaths of more than 70, 000 children under five annually. According to the United Nations Children’s Funds (UNICEF), there are around 2.4 billion people in the world who do not use improved sanitation and 663 million who do not have access to improved water sources. Statistics from UNICEF showed that when it comes to hygiene and sanitation, Nigeria is at the lower rung of the ladder with only 26.5 percent of the population having access to safe drinking water sources and sanitation facilities. More worrisome is that 23.5 percent of the population defecate in the open. Fagbemi said without a partnership – that has led to the provision of WASH facilities to the community, 1000 members of the community would have been a part of the staggering statistics. She said the provision of the borehole will help to reduce the number of people at risk of water-borne diseases in the country by 1000. She said the organisation would continue to work with leadership of the community to ensure that there is continuous and steady maintenance of the facilities to avoid misuse. “This is why we are in partnership with the community because they also have a major part to play if the project must be sustained,” Fagbemi stated. The executive director called on government at all levels to immediately give the issues of WASH the seriousness it deserves. “There are many Rugan Ardo communities in the FCT and they must not be left behind in infrastructural development and provision of water and sanitation. Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) goals 6:1 and 6:2 would depend on all stakeholders putting hands on the deck to reach every rural communities in Nigeria. “We are pleased to announce that CCSI would continue to provide every technical assistance to the government and other stakeholders in ensuring that Nigeria does not fail on the global scale regarding the SDGs. We cannot afford to fail our children, who represent the future,” she added. Chief of the community, Alhaji Muhammed Jibrin Yale, expressed gratitude and good wishes to CCSI for the projects. Jibrin, who was recently promoted the Ardon Kasar Jiwa, recounted how members of the community would trek several distance before they could get water for use. Also, the Hakimi of Idu, Is-haq Ibrahim, said he had never experienced a situation where a non-governmental organisation would come to an unknown village and construct a borehole project. “This is the first time in history. The area council is supposed to do this. We have seen their work on the ground today. We now have water and toilets because of you (CCSI),” Ibrahim, who was represented by Emir of Jiwa, Idris Musa, added.