We are Nigerians and Owambe is one thing we love a lot. Whether the country economic state is in shambles or not, Nigerians will always have reasons to party. Everyone wants to look stunning and exceptional at any events and generally go overboard spending on unnecessary things. Being a wedding guest can be rough on one’s bank account especially with the increasing cost of aso-ebifabric. From the cost of makeup, shoes and accessories, attending weddings these days will probably put a huge dent in your wallet. Here are some tips on how to slay when going for an owambe: * Wear what you have. Not everyone is brave enough to try this but it works. After spending so much on aso-ebi lace, you shouldn’t put them at the bottom of your wardrobe. See those expensive fabrics as an investment for future events. If you already have an existing dress matching the colour palette of an upcoming owambe, why not dust off the fabric, slay and save you coins, more importantly, if you cannot afford it? * Keep your style simple and trendy. Don’t be too extravagant, dress simple and moderately and you definitely look hot. We all love to look in an all shades of penging way and on fleek at an owambe but then follow the “KISH” Keep it simple and hot. It is possible to slay in a simple, yet stylish outfit. From jumpsuits to off-shoulder dresses, there are a variety of classy, yet affordable designs to choose from. Feel comfortable. Whenever you are going for an owambe always ensure you are comfortable in whatever you are wearing. Study show that your outfit can affect your emotional state. Therefore, if you want to have a good time at a party, wear something that makes you feel comfortable and attractive. Avoid wearing anything that makes you feel awkward. Otherwise, you may come across as awkward at the party. Smell nice. Each time you are going for an owambe endeavour to smell pleasant that even when someone pass by you the person would be like,” Uncle you smell nice”. Look charming. While the men look dapper and maintain their sweet boy status, women are now expected to slay, styling up themselves to a whole new level. Put up a smile. No matter the situations or mood you might be when going for an owambe smile and never stop. It is one of the best make-ups you can wear when you want to slay for a party. Wear perfect footwear that matches your dress. For the ladies you could put on heels. For the men, you could wear a shoe or sandals to match the dress. Consider the occasion. Whenever you’re going for an owambe consider the type of attire you would for the occasion and do a perfect combination.