The leadership of the Ijaw Interest Advocates on Monday appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint a competent Ijaw man from Delta as the new boss of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. The group made the appeal in a statement by Amb. Arerebo Yerinmene, National Coordinator, IIA. He said the new Amnesty boss must be someone who is abreast with the current realities of the Niger Delta struggle. The group stated they were making the appeal to enable the Ijaws in Delta state feel a sense of belong as they have never held that position since the creation of the amnesty programme, and considering the fact that the Niger Delta struggle started from Delta state. “In spite of the consequences outplaying endangering the program by some people that don’t want the growth of Ijaw Nation, we are very much assured that if someone that has the qualities of visionary leadership and well informed with the modern day Niger Delta struggle is appointed to head the amnesty office, the aims and objectives of the program will be well achieved as expected. “On behalf of the foregoing we do hereby refer the President to ensure that pragmatic and visionary Delta Ijaw man who enjoys grassroots popularity and support should be appointed next to man the Presidential Amnesty Committee (PAP),” the group stated. It added: “The group also noted that the Amnesty programme was a very strategic one which must be operated with maximum skill and experience, adding that the office must be handled by Ijaw men who know who and who started the struggle. Diplomatic competence is what the leadership of the office needs and not military or professional trainings experience.” The Ijaw group also commended past coordinators of the Amnesty programme like Dr. Timi Alaibe and Dr. Kingsley Kuku respectively for excellently steering the ship of the programme. “As we have stated earlier, we have no problem with the current leadership but as new leadership is being contemplated by the President, maximum attention should be given to capacity and fairness. “Recourse to fairness will give room to capable sons of Ijaw origin from Delta State to mann the office. It is clear fact that Ijaws from the aforementioned state (Delta) have not been opportuned to lead the programme. “The unity of Ijaw man and woman across all the six states in Nigeria is non-negotiable and cannot be overemphasized as we always see ourselves as one people from the same descendant and fighting a common course of sustainability,” the group added.