The Foundation for Partnership Initiative in the Niger Delta (PIND) has received accolades for its efforts in uplifting the poorest and most vulnerable in the  region. In this report, Shola O’Neil and Bolaji Ogundele examine the new frontier in the foundation’s war on poverty – using simple, affordable technologies to address primal challenges. In 2015, PIND Foundation made a bold statement on its intent to help tackle global warming with the inauguration of the Appropriate Technology Enabled Development (ATED) Centre in Egbokodo-Itsekiri, Warri Delta State. Then ATED Programme Manager, Nancy Gilbert explained at the unveiling ceremony what drove the construction: “They say a picture is worth a thousand words. And I would venture to add – an experience is worth a few thousand more! Being able to see, learn, and experience innovations will hopefully lead to interest, knowledge, and change.” The assertion aptly described ATED Centre, constructed by the Foundation for Partnership Initiative in the Niger Delta (PIND). She said PIND hoped “this building can in some small way help raise awareness of the challenges we face, and suggest solutions.” Nearly four years later, when a team of Niger Delta Report visited the centre, the ATED dream to use “appropriate technology – that makes sense in the Niger Delta” was in full bloom. The PIND centre has become a Mecca of sort of researchers, universities and those driven by the curiosity of what the ATED Building is all about. Last month PIND signed a partnership with the Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, Edo state, allowing the university access to its knowledge resources on appropriate technology. According to the foundation’s statement, the collaboration is aimed at promoting ATs as economic enablers in the region. The PIND Foundation has become one of the most innovative and forward-thinking nongovernment organisations because of its efforts to find a solution to the age-long conundrum of living in penury amidst plenty. Founded in the USA in 2010 by Chevron Nigeria Limited, PIND radical approach is encapsulated in the parable of teaching people to fish rather than giving them fish. The ATED Project follows the curve: although not deliberately established to address economic, health and other challenges, its works and innovations and training of ‘facilitators’ to provide useful services with ATs has not only found solutions to these problems but in doing so is imparting knowledge and creating employment through value chains. The idea to construct a house to communicate the diverse uses Appropriate Technologies could be put – to tackle global warming, drive attitudinal changes on how exhaustible resources are used, at the same time help the poor, lift millions out of extreme poverty and save lives in the Niger Delta – not a few sniggered. But the ATED team has delivered on those lofty targets. A cursory glimpse of the simple ATED Center from outside piques the imagination; it is captivating and demanding of a second glance. Its attractions are apparent despite its simple, and subdued elegance amidst other towering edifices in the neighbourhood, The ATED Building is alluring and captivating, not because of its simplicity, but in spite of it. From the brown brick walls to its high roof, and almost floor to roof window, everything about the building seems different. Adroit combination of local materials to supports the dream of energy-efficiency (using less than 75percent of a normal similar building), ensures a low maintenance house. Every material was carefully chosen to leverage on the environment, use minimal energy for cooling, cooking and lighting. For a nation battling with epileptic power supply, these are irresistible features and it is no wonder that pilgrims are searching it out. ATED Project Manager, Dr Teslim Giwa, an internationally certified architect and renewables expert, told Niger Delta Report that the centre is the hub for everything the ATED team does. Giwa, an advocate for sustainable environment through ATs, glows when he talked about the building and ATED projects and what they portend for the future. “The ATED Centre is where everything crystalizes. The vision at the beginning is that this is a centre where you go to and find all these soft knowledge, just the same way when you come to the Economic Development Centre should have experts to answer questions like what they should be investing in.” The building houses a library with over 1,500 materials and works on appropriate technology, yet it doesn’t just answer questions on economic and sustainable development issues; it is by itself a fountain of knowledge and empirical evidence of the numerous use of ATs. ATED Centre Manager, Florence Agbejule, who took our reporters and other visitors on a tour of the centre a fortnight ago, spoke about it as a loving mother would about a prodigious child. She explained how the choice of materials worked towards achieving its set goal. From the use of hydraform interlocking blocks moulded from laterite, ubiquitous building materials, to minimal use of cement both in moulding and erection of the walls. But in spite of using less cement, she explained that the compressed earth from which the bricks were constructed make them stronger and more resilient. “If you get tired of the house and feel like moving away, you can pull it down by block by block removal,” she said, stressing that the detached units could be used to build anywhere the owner chooses. The use of timber along with the hydroform blocks, double-glazed window panes etc. reduces heat and eliminates the need for constant use of Air Conditioners to a minimum. The compressed earth brick ensures that heat is kept out, while the use of two-layered timber roof instead of conventional ceiling boards create a buffer from heat generated by the sun beating down on the roof. The roof extends several feet from the external walls, this protects the wall from direct sunlight and raindrops and splashes, thereby ensuring the walls remain clean, while also keeping the heat at bay. Floor-to-ceiling size, the double-glazed window makes the rooms soundproof; it also helps conserve energy as coolness from just a few hours use of air-conditioner is protected from going out. This is because while the chill is trapped inside, the hot air can’t find a way through the multilayer window glass. The larger-than-normal windows ensure that the innermost space receives sunlight from dawn to dusk, minimizing the need for electric illuminations. WASTE-TO-GAS – BIO-DIGESTER The most astounding technology on display at the futuristic ATED Centre is the Bio-digester that converts human and food wastes to clean gas, used for cooking and powering a rarely used standby generator. The bio-digester provides clean and very safe energy for cooking and similarly eliminates the issue of waste management. Unlike conventional houses where the problem of filled up septic tank gives residents cause for concerns, the waste tank is tapped and then emptied for use as gas. It is not only human wastes that are not allowed to go to waste in this innovative building, but rainwater is also harvested and used to flush toilet and for other hygienic use. This is achieved through the connection of drain that channels every drop of rain that hits the aluminium roof into two gigantic plastic tanks. The water is then piped back into the restrooms. Agbejule said rainwater harvested into two megaliter plastic tanks lasts the all-year round. W.A.S.H – Bio-sand water filter For about six million (6,000,000) in the Niger Delta, especially inhabitants of rural communities, the dilemma that compelled the sailor in Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s “Rime of The Ancient Mariner” to cry out “Water, water everywhere nor any drop to drink” is a sad reality. Several government agencies and NGOs have made efforts to address this problem – from solar-powered water to sinking hundreds of boreholes, which mostly dry up as soon as they are ‘commissioned’ – with fanfare. Safe and accessible water remains a pipedream. It is against this background the PIND introduced a very simple and effective technique known as the bio-sand filter. It was first displayed in Amatu Community in Bayelsa. The apparatus, like others pioneered by ATED is so simple that it so easily undervalues its impact and importance. It is comprised of commonplace materials like a plastic bucket, pipes, pebbles/gravel and sand. The apparatus uses a very simple filtration system, which purifies the water through the biological and physical system. The head of ATED’s Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Project, John Nwamuo, told our reporter that PIND’s takes special interests on WASH because of its impact on hygiene, health and wellbeing of rural community dwellers. He explained that when water-borne diseases infect them, it exerts a huge toll on finances of sufferers and put their dependents at risk. Nwomua said the bio-sand filter takes 21 days for the process to reach t maturity after being newly constructed, stressing, “If it is constructed today, every day you pour at least 20 litres of water until 21 days and after that, the water is safe for drinking.” Buoyed the acceptance and success of the bio-sand filter, PIND is now working with Bayelsa state Rotary Club to install seven of the facilities in 10 primary and secondary schools in the state. The foundation is also working with several other organizations to implement the programme in 30 schools in rural areas. At the time our reporter visited PIND, it had reached 17 schools and benefited more than 14,000 pupils/students. Chorkor Oven: Fish smoking made easy The Chorkor oven is a fish drying technology, which was fallout from PIND’s intervention in the aquaculture value chain. In our earlier report on fish farming, operators said increased yields from the adoption of best management practices led to a glut in the market, which put them at the mercy of fish trader after every harvest. Chorkor Oven, which can be constructed using local materials like clay bricks, cement blocks, burnt bricks and compressed earth, dries fish faster and more efficiently. Dryers who use chorkor oven smoke as much as 200kg of fish and they get more even toned end product as heat is evenly spread. Besides, the technology uses less wood, as the materials and its construction ensure that heat is retained and put to maximum use.