Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc has raised about N1.586 billion in new equity funds from its shareholders, 20.7 per cent or N414 million below the insurance company’s target of N2 billion. Mutual Benefits Assurance had offered four billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to existing shareholders at 50 kobo per share. The rights issue was provisionally allotted on the basis of one new ordinary share of 50 kobo each for every two ordinary shares held as at the close of business on November 1, 2017. At the listing of the rights issue’s shares at the weekend, the company indicated it was able to raise N1.586 billion through subscription to about 3.173 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at 50 kobo per share. The rights issue was thus 79.3 per cent subscribed. The additional shares of 3.173 billion were subsequently listed on the main board at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). With the listing of the new ordinary shares, the total issued and fully paid up shares of Mutual Benefits Assurance has increased from eight billion to 11.173 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. The rights issue, which was initially scheduled to close on Friday September 14, last year, was extended to Friday September 28, last year. The rights issue had opened on Monday, August 6, last year. The board of the insurance company has said the net proceeds of the rights issue would be used to deepen the capital base of the company and enhance its ability to create more wealth for shareholders. Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc Chairman Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi said the net proceeds of the rights issue would be used to finance the company’s growth plan including provision of additional working capital and expansion of information and communication technologies to support the company enlarged operations. He said the strategic goal of the company is to become the number one insurance company in Nigeria in terms of growth and profitability. He assured that new investments in technologies would help the company to eliminate delay in its processing and focus more on customer satisfaction. Ogunbiyi reassured shareholders of the commitment of the board and management of the company to sustainable growth, in line with its five-year strategic plan. In 2017, Mutual Benefits Assurance   started the implementation of a five-year strategic plan to reposition it for future opportunities and challenges. The plan focused on four key areas of the group’s business, including deepening market penetration and customer acquisition, customer service delivery excellence, transformation of its people and culture and operational effectiveness.