The Presidential Task Force clearing the Apapa Port road and access roads has assured Lagosians that efforts are on to clear the Mile 2/Orile Tin Can road and others of trucks. The leader, Mr. Kayode Opeifa, who gave the assurance on Tuesday, said although some of the trucks could still be seen on the Apapa-Oshodi expressway from up to Tin Can road, Tin Can first and second gates and Tin Can bridge, efforts were ongoing to ensure that they were cleared and the place opened up. He said: “The team is still working and soon we are going to achieve success on the Tin Can axis.” Opeifa said the failed portion of the road, especially at Coconut bus stop, contributed to the slow pace of work by the task force. The combined teams of the Police and Lagos State Transport Management Agency (LASTMA) were seen on Wednesday controlling traffic at the Wharf and Tin Can end. At the Tin Can end, from Sanya inward Tin Can, the trucks were organised to park on the right side of the road, leaving the fast lane free for other road users. The outward carriageway from Wharf to Tin Can and from Tin Can to Coconut has been cleared from trucks obstruction. On the Western Avenue axis, the roads have been cleared of trucks up to Ijora bridge from where trucks billed to enter the port are seen on the Ijora-Wharf road and bridges, right up to Point Road inward, Apapa Port. At Ijora, the trucks were being controlled to stay on the left shoulder of the road, leaving the right open for other motorists who have no business on the bridge leading to the port entrance. The Customs checkpoint on Point road and other access areas have been collapsed in line with the presidential directive for the Customs to suspend activities that may impede the efforts of the task force in clearing the roads of gridlock. A commuter, Cletus Orizu, who sells wristwatches at Apapa, said the exercise had relieved people who eked out a living in the area. He said: “From Ojuelegba, I was surprised when we got to Leventis in Apapa in less than 40 minutes. That same journey used to take us over two to three hours every day. So, I can say that we have started seeing the impact of the exercise in just three days already.” Orizu said. At Tin Can, a commercial motorcyclist who simply identified himself as Mohammed, urged the Federal Government to speed up work on the repair of Tin Can road. He said the trucks clearing ongoing will be a wasteful exercise if the road remains in its present bad state.