ROSE OKEKE investigates the frequent raids by the Federal Capital Territory Administration’s joint task team, the convictions, sexual molestations, and human rights abuse of 71 women Many Nigerians are well aware that the police and law enforcement agents are notorious for perpetrating illegal acts such as bullying and extorting workers, drivers, and traders, among others, and threatening non-compliers with imprisonment. Often, the aggressors physically attack and abuse their victims. The police extort ludicrous sums of money from citizens, and have now graduated to making unlawful arrests of women in order to achieve monetary and sexual gratification. The process of illegally arresting and detaining young women in Nigeria’s capital city of Abuja is a trend which has been occurring for years, the most notable case being that of Dorothy Njemanze versus the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2015, judhedt by the ECOWAS Court. The ECOWAS Court ruled that arbitrary arrest, leading to the violation of right to liberty, is in contradiction of international human rights law and the Nigerian constitution. Following the April 17th-26th arrest and detention of 71 women from public spaces in Abuja based on suspicion of prostitution, various non-governmental organisations such as Education as a Vaccine (EVA Nigeria), Partnership to Inspire, Transform, and Connect the HIV response (PITCH), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), and the Dorothy Njemanze Foundation (DNF) convened at Abuja on Thursday, May 2, 2019 to demand accountability following police raids targeting women in the FCT, calling for an end to sexual harassment and unlawful detention of women by the law enforcement agents in Nigeria. At this press briefing, eight of the victims shared their harrowing experiences, facing away from the cameras in order to maintain anonymity. In light of these events, protests social media campaigns, and new stories of police brutality and violence against women are being brought to the light, news of the Federal Capital Territory Authority (FCTA) raiding bars, restaurants, and night clubs around Abuja to arrest women on suspicion of being sex workers. Women who witness these arrests took to media interviews and social media under the hashtags #AbujaPoliceRaidonWomen and #SayHerNameNigeria to acknowledge the fact that the officials check for wedding bands, only arresting women presumed to be single. The perpetrator of these heinous acts is the FCTA Joint Task Team, which is made up of the Abuja Environmental Protection Board, AEPB, the Department of Development Control, and the Social Development Secretariat, SDS. According to reports by Civil Society Organisations, social media activists, witnesses, and the testimony of the victims, the officials not only illegally arrested and detained them, but they were also beaten mercilessly, teargassed, their phones and belongings confiscated, and they were sexually assaulted and molested. One of the victims recounted her experience on April 26, 2019. “It happened on Friday last week,” she said. “We were in a club in Gwarimpa. A crowd emerged from the entrance and they told all the girls to stand up. They dragged us and bundled us into a van, with cameras flashing around us. When we asked them what our crime was, they said once we get to the police station we will know our crime. “They even arrested and beat up a woman with a 2 month old baby and refused to let her breastfeed. They took us to Utako police station on Friday/Saturday morning. They unleashed tear gas on us and beat us relentlessly. There is a policeman they call Yellow. He used a baton and koboko whip on us. They took us to a mobile court and told us to please guilty or else we would return to prison for six months.” Another victim, in her own testimony, said, “I was invited to a birthday party. I was inside the hotel. I came outside to get some water to drink. The next thing I knew, a policewoman grabbed me and dragged me by the hand, slapping and beating me. She dragged me outside where cameras were flashing wildly. I saw the policemen hike up one girl’s long dress and they took pictures of her naked. “I was on my period during all this and the policewomen refused to bring me pads in the cell. When my sister came to visit me, she brought pads and when I went to change, a male policeman entered into the bathroom with me and watched me naked the entire time I changed my pad.” The policewoman was later identified as the Director of Social Development Secretariat. When asked what happened during their detention, the victims confessed that they were forced to pay N3000 to 5,000 naira as bail before being taken to the AEPB mobile court, and that the girls who could not pay the money were taken to a separate location to be raped in lieu of payment. One of the victims narrated her former encounter with policemen which occurred earlier this year on February 15th. “I was with two of my friends when we were accosted by four policemen,” she tearfully recounted. “They said they were military men and that we should pay them N4000 each. We refused and they beat us. We were behind the National War College They took us to the back of their police van turn by turn. “Two policemen held me down, pinning me to the ground and all four of them raped me. And they still robbed us after raping us without protection.” The victims also maintained that a mobile court was set up with plastic chairs and table and they were arraigned before this makeshift court. All of the victims reported that there was a blatant refusal by the police for them to access legal representation. Prior to their arraignment, they also reported to have been advised by the government officials to plead guilty or risk facing up to six (6) months in prison. Upon the guilty plea, they were sentenced to 3 months in jail with an option of fine. The FIDA representatives affirmed that these AEPB arrests are a contravention of Nigerians’ constitutional rights under Sections 34, 35, 36, 41, and 42, which affirm Nigerians’ freedom from torture, right to free movement and fair hearing, innocence until proven guilty and legal representation. The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Woman (CEDAW) and the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (Maputo Protocol) which have been ratified by the Nigerian government also protects the human rights of women to dignity, equality, liberty, and freedom from violence. Also applicable to the FCT, Violence against Persons Prohibition Act 2015 prohibits all forms of violence against all persons. Speaking to Lawyer, Activist, and CEO of Tap Initiative, Martin Obono, The Nation gathered that the victims were coerced and threatened by the officials who told them that the NGOs and activists would not be there when they are locked up. “They told these girls that it would be better for them to plead guilty,” Obono said in an interview. “They said, ‘Just say you are a prostitute, it is better for you. Just plead guilty and pay your fine.’ And these girls fear for their lives and pay up or face imprisonment.” When asked if legal action could be taken against these officials, Obono replied that the girls must be ready to come out, which most are not, especially those that have been molested as they are afraid of being attacked or killed. “The most important thing is to stop the arbitrary arrest in the streets,” he stated. “Why should people be arrested in the streets because they ‘look’ like prostitutes? How do prostitutes actually look? “Abuja is crawling with male prostitutes who women pay to have sex with. What happens to them? Where would you ever find them? How do you identify them?” Speaking on the issue of the conviction, he affirmed that that the mobile court went out of its jurisdiction with the trial, labeling the convictions unlawful. “The mobile court set up by the AEPB is for dealing with road safety and FRSC matters. They cannot hold a trial on prostitution. That is completely unlawful. “In Nigeria, we have the criminal and penal codes. The criminal code does not criminialise sex work, but it prohibits pimping, the act of assembling girls to pimp them out. In the penal code, however, there is provision for the payment of sex. This is a huge gray area because that means that at one point in time, just about everybody has engaged in payment for sex, be it in cash or in kind. That is arguable.” He said that the mobile court should stick to its jurisdiction, as prostitution is a civil offence, and not a criminal one. He continued to dispute the validity of the FCTA Joint Task Team’s mission to tackle prostitution in Abuja. “You cannot can a person a prostitute unless the person fesses up themselves. And even at that, if you are arresting someone for sex work, that implies that somebody paid for the sex. So what happens to the person who paid? Where is the evidence that a transaction even occurred?” Obono also challenged the idea of arresting women on presumptuous ideology. “There was a bill presented to the National Assembly some time ago about indecent dressing and it was thrown out because what can be classified as indecent? “Arresting citizens based on suspicion is illegal, unlawful, and is equivalent to kidnap. Those girls were kidnapped. Arbitrary arrest is a crime on its own. People are living in fear. This is killing the social life of the city and, thus, there is also a negative economic impact.” The lawyer opined that Nigeria should follow the leadership of several developed countries to decriminalise sex work for the sake of the welfare of actual sex workers, non-sex workers, and for the benefit of the country as a whole. “Frameworks should be put in place, and every sex worker should be registered with medicals, so that they can be tracked and their medical conditions known to the government. It also guarantees their security and would make the country plan better, not to mention reducing sex-related crimes.” Currently, through preliminary investigations carried out by the federal government, the Utako DPO has laid claims that only 39 women were registered to have been arrested on April 26, 2019. According to the testimony of the victims, it means that over 30 women remain unaccounted for. Many of the 70 victims are still in police custody and have not been allowed to access legal representation as granted by the Nigerian constitution.