Amid cheers from enthusiastic crowd at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, successful entrepreneur and oil magnate, Prince Dapo Oluwasegun Abiodun, took his oath of office yesterday, pledging not to “personalize” office or “abuse” it. The Chief Justice of Ogun State, Justice Mosunmola Dipeolu, administered the Oath on him about 11:53 am, while his Deputy, Engr. Noimot Salako – Oyedele, took hers earlier, by 11.40am. The day was particularly a double joy for Abiodun, his wife; Bamidele, children and Octogenarian parents – Prof. Emmanuel Abiodun and Dr. (Mrs) Victoria Abiodun, because the new Governor of Ogun State also turned 59 same day he assumed the office. In his inauguration address, Abiodun noted that the political journey has been “bumpy,” but assured that with his swearing-in as the Governor of the Gateway State, Ogun people now stand on the “threshold of a new dawn and a new beginning.” He equally assured that he would not turn the government into that of cronies or family affairs. “You will always find in me conduct of Omoluabi expected of Omo Teacher! I will govern with character! I will serve you diligently and sincerely! I will make your interests the core of governance!
I will neither personalise nor abuse the mandate! I will not betray your trust,” he said. He noted that the building is a collective task, promising that the new administration would give Ogun State focused and qualitative governance as well as create the enabling environment for a public private sector partnership, which is fundamental to the creation of an enduring economic development and individual prosperity of the people. He also pledged to carry out reforms in the following areas – public service, empowerment and the Local Governments, transparency and public finance management, security and welfare, physical infrastructures, education and health sector. The new Governor also said his administration would pay priority attention to agriculture and food security to make the state self – sufficient in food production first and later exported to other states of the Federation. According to him, industry, trade and investment as well as ICT, communications, tourism and entertainment would be harnessed to drive growth and development in the state. He lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice – President Yemi Osinbajo, the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, the party National leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and former Governor Aremo Osoba for the unquantifiable support and leadership roles that ensured his triumph at the poll.