Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member Alhaji Mutiu Are has described the death of Oba Olatunji Hamzat as a colossal loss to the political family. He said the deceased party chieftain and monarch of Afowowa Sodade, Ogun State was an outstanding, loyal, courageous and principled leader who believed in the doctrines  of party supremacy and discipline. He noted that Pa Hamzat served Lagos and Southwest progressive bloc with dedication and sense of responsibility. Are said in a statement in Lagos that Hamzat was a man of honour and integrity, adding that he will be greatly missed by relations and associates. He said: “I received the news of the death of our highly esteemed political leader, mentor and role model, Oba Muftau Olatunji Hamzat, with a mixture of shock and understanding. “It was with shock because the passage was not preceded with a long or protracted illness. Few weeks ago, he was at Akoka, Yaba, where he was conferred with a honorary doctorate degree by the European-American University. “However, it was with understanding because Allah took him away at a ripe old age of 86, having led a fulfilled life of dignified service to humanity. “It is nevertheless painful that he had to exit, 17 days to the inauguration of his beloved son, Dr. Kadiri Hamzat, as deputy governor of Lagos State. “Oba Hamzat was a principled politician, a courageous leader, incorruptible actor, an Awoust, and consistent player who never defected from the progressive camp. “The hallmark of his political career was loyalty. He was a believer in party supremacy, party discipline and the pre-eminence of gerontocratic monitoring. “Oba Hamzat will be greatly missed by his community, Afowora Sogade, Ogun State, where he was the monarch, his ancestral Ajiborisa family of Epe and the wider political class, particularly the progressive bloc.” Are noted that Hamzat left behind a formidable ruling party, the APC, a peaceful and potentially greater Lagos warning up for a new dawn on May 29 and durviving compatriots in the Lagos State GAC who will continue to guide the process in the wider interest of Lagosians. He said: “It is gratifying that the beloved leader is survived by worthy and promising children who are doing well in their chosen fields.” Are added: “Pa Hamzat was an outstanding and experienced politician, who moulded the lives of younger generation of political actors who subscribe to the progressive creed. “He was not a politician without a second address. Pa Hamzat was a successful banker and technocrat, who was fortified by the dignity of labour and involvement in community service before becoming a full politician. “In the First Republic, he entered politics as a member of the Action Group (AG) Youth Association, led by Pa Ayo Fasanmi. The motivation for joining the party was the captivating progressive ideas espoused  by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who presided over the pioneer administration in the defunct Western Region that has remained a reference point in Africa. “In 1979, Pa Hamzat became a chieftain of the proscribed Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), led Awolowo, and was elected into the Lagos State House of Assembly, where he aspired to serve as Speaker. “However, shortly after the inauguration of the House under Speaker Osinnowo, Pa Hamzat was appointed as Commissioner for Transport by Governor Lateef Jakande, following recommendation by the Mushin UPN leader, Chief Isola Solomon. In 1983, he was reappointed into the same position after Jakande was reselected. “Pa Hamzat played a great role in the initiation of the light rail project spearheaded by his ministry under the Jakande administration. The project, which was approved and launched by former President Shehu Shagari, was one of the casualties of military intervention of 1983. “Following the violent change of government, Hamzat and many of his colleagues in the Jakande cabinet were hounded into detention by the military. After extensive investigations, nothing incriminating was found against him.” 