Ahead of November 2019 Governorship Election in Bayelsa State, Keniebi Okoko, a governorship aspirant, believes he has an edge over all the other aspirants. In this short chart with some newsmen, he said he has the needed blueprint to turn around the fortunes of the oil-rich state, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu Do you agree with critics and some governorship aspirants who say today that Bayelsa’s previous and current governments have not performed well enough? There are different dynamics. Bayelsa is a growing state. Let’s not be quick to judge. When you don’t wear the shoe, you don’t know where it pinches. People might be saying that the money coming in is a lot, forgetting that there are several ongoing capital projects. There are lots of bank loans, debts from what I gathered, salaries and capital projects. I am not quick to judge. It’s also possible that the head is good, but the strength around the head may not have the capacity to deliver the vision of the visioner. The visioner may have a good vision but the workforce is not able to implement the vision. I am not saying that’s the situation, but I think the criticism that Bayelsa is underperforming is not fair. So, why do you aspire to be the next Bayelsa State governor? What do you think sets you apart from the other aspirants? In spite of what has been achieved, there are still so much to be done. So, I want to be governor because I want a massive change in Bayelsa. I am here to ensure greater improvement in critical areas like education, healthcare, economy and in fact in all spheres of our lives. I have the requisite training and experience to effect the needed change in Bayelsa. If you look at my educational background, I started school here in Nigeria at the University of Port-Harcourt, and then proceeded to Carlton University in Canada. I also attended Wharton Business School for short courses, before proceeding to Harvard where I did two short courses and finally a three-year programme at the Harvard Business School which makes me an alumnus of the Harvard Business School and several other colleges. I am not from the regular political class. It seems every other aspirant has held one political post or another. But let me tell you, Bayelsans will want to know the achievements those who have held these positions made when they held the positions. Bayelsa is a coastal area; do you have any special plan to take full advantage of the state’s peculiar environment? I see industrialisation is the key. This same environment we have here is pretty much what they have in Singapore. The government should stop being a company; it should not own companies. It should create a decent environment for business to thrive. It should be looking for Foreign Direct Investment. The government should invite companies that have been tested over the years and trusted. Today, Nigeria is branded as a corrupt destination. Most of these companies are afraid. But that is not the case. I will be an ambassador for Bayelsa State by going into contractual agreements and sticking to these agreements. The problem is that many foreign investors think we don’t follow through signed agreements. In Vietnam for example, you talk about rice. In Singapore, you talk about fishing. Not long ago, these countries were tagged underdeveloped. We need to have agreements with these countries, ensure they come and transfer this knowledge which is very important. Our people have to understand that government cannot provide everything, but it has the responsibility of providing opportunities. I have always been a strong advocate of knowledge transfer, educating the mind to greater things that we can achieve. The Ijaw man is not lazy; there is nothing you give an Ijaw man to do that he cannot accomplish, given the right circumstances. We are a determined and dogged people. The late Governor Diepreye Alamieyeseigha was known for resource control; Governor Dickson is talking about restructuring. What’s your take on restructuring? It is obvious that this country needs to be restructured. I have always been a strong advocate of this. We need to use every non-violent channel. It has to be more intellectually driven now. I do not subscribe to making inflammatory statements from whichever side of the divide. We need to talk about it because it is inevitable. Closely linked to restructuring is the call for state police, like what obtains in so many parts of the developed world. Do you think this call is justified, especially given the rising crime wave in Bayelsa State? First of all, when you say Bayelsa has serious security challenges, I will tell you that Zamfara has been in the news recently, that the Kaduna, Abuja axis is also a sore point, that there has been a lot of kidnapping recently in Lagos. It is not a situation that is peculiar to Bayelsa. But the framework is very important. How are they going to be funded? What are the reporting channels, because there has been a lot of abuse of power in this country: You spoke about developed nations. There are rules about their kind of policing and these rules are strictly obeyed. That framework is important. We must have the enabling environment. We must continue to discuss it, but for now, let’s build on what we have. There has to be a transition period. We should be able to say that in the next four years, we are moving from point A to point B. Unemployment is a big issue in Nigeria, especially in Bayelsa where majority of the youths are not gainfully employed. When you become governor, how do you intend to tackle this problem? I will take it from the point of Donald Trump. I have not seen the media bash any other President in recent times, like the American President. But everything that Trump says he will do, he is doing for America. He said he will provide more jobs, he has done it. He has simply taken away the things that stifle investment, made the big companies invest more in the factories and insisting that if they build companies outside America and try to bring the goods in, they will be heavily taxed. By doing that, he has increased job creation and the salary strength of American workers. If you come down to Bayelsa and Nigeria at large; Bayelsa is largely dependent on government and probably a few companies. There are no industries and no matter how the government shouts about job creation, without industries, we are going nowhere. You cannot continue to employ people into the civil service, people who do not have anything to do. It is not about taking people and giving them empty offices. They are not being allowed to task their brains. Industries in every local government will be encouraged. The middle class is already gone. We need to look for factories for the low and middle class. Let’s look for the model that works for the low and middle class. You can see the phones that are selling for the upper and lower class. You can have a factory that produces those kinds of phones in Nembe Local Government or Sagbama, Aba, Enugu and Onitsha. There will be knowledge transfer; then you create a business ecosystem that works. India is not better than Nigeria. We have the same opportunities. My friend has a $3 billion company in India called Micromax. Why can’t we bring him to replicate that here? Let’s not continue to look at the problems, but for solutions. We need to develop our land. Mind transformation is important. Give Bayelsa four years and you will see transformation. You are known more about philanthropy and business than politics? Do you have any form of experience in politics? My father is Professor Kimse Okoko, whom I am very proud of. He tutored and nurtured me. Maybe I am not as prominent in the political space as much as I am in business and philanthropy. Funny enough, this is not my first time in politics. When I finished from Carlton in Canada and I came back to Nigeria in 2005, I participated in the House of Assembly Election, but the party in its wisdom did a kind of special primaries. I hold no grudge against anyone. I left and went into business. I am glad that it happened, because it gave me more determination to succeed in life. Politics is not about how long, but what you are bringing into the game. Donald Trump wasn’t a politician, but he beat everybody. In France and Austria, it is the same. What I will bring to bear on governance in Bayelsa is my knowledge in business, my integrity, my capacity to turn things around. The greatest politicians are those who listen and take advice. Those around me will tell you that I listen to everyone. When you take advice and know people’s problems, you are not an emperor. As Bayelsa leader, I will listen to their complaints. I will be close to my people. I will not loot their funds because I am not looking for free money. I will work to the extent that when a successor is taking over from me, it will be more or less a standard to measure the next administration. I can guarantee that. All the things I have learnt in Harvard, Carlton, Wharton, Uniport, I will bring to bear. I can assure them that because I am a child of God, I have empathy for my people. When the righteous rule, the people rejoice. My people will see the difference when I take over governance of the state.