THE Nigerian Maritime Ad-ministration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dakuku Peterside, has said Nigeria is overdue for a national fleet to boost its position in the comity of  nations. Peterside spoke in Lagos when he hosted the National Fleet Implementation Committee (NFIC). He said a national fleet would energise the sector, save the huge spend on in-country freight and create jobs. He pledged the agency’s support for the committee, saying: “The national fleet implementation is long overdue and so NIMASA will work assiduously with the committee to ensure that the national fleet is restored to its past glory so that our nation can be reckoned with in the comity of maritime nations.” According to the DG, NIMASA had taken steps to develop the sector and increase indigenous participation. He listed these to include repositioning of the Nigerian Ship Registry, securing a special tax regime, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Nigeria Customs Service; and changing of trade terms from Free on Board (FoB) to Cost Insurance and Freight (CIF). Others are engaging the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in negotiating for one digit interest rate for ship owners to help in the acquisition of maritime assets, collaborating with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board; and supporting the Nigerian Navy in capacity building. “The national fleet implementation will create employment and wealth opportunities in Nigeria. The focus laboratory will also help Nigerians to understand the maritime sector and bring the players together to solve and understand issues better,” he said. The committee Chairman, Hassan Bello, listed the work done by the committee, soliciting NIMASA’s support. Bello requested a joint briefing with NIMASA to the Minister of Transportation to get his nod for  the fleet project. He said there was need for the Ministry of Transportation and its Budget and National Panning counterpart  to write a joint memo to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and other relevant arms of the government for approval to the project. The NFIC was set up by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, to work out modalities for the establishment and sustenance of a national fleet. The Nigeria National Shipping Line (NNSL) was liquidated in 1995. 