Coca-Cola Nigeria, through its foundation, has handed over a block of five classrooms, 10 units of sanitation facilities, playground and a library complex it renovated at the First Baptist Primary School, Ijaye Oja-Ale, Abeokuta, to the Ogun State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). The project is part of the Coca-Cola Foundation/UNDP New World programme, in collaboration with the  state government and Youth Empowerment Foundation (YEF). It is  aimed at upgrading critical infrastructure in the school founded in 1910 as a missionary school adopted by the First Baptist Church, before becoming a publicly owned primary school in the 1970s. Speaking at the inauguration of the project held at the school premises in Abeokuta last Friday, Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Aikulola Olu Ola, said the project would go a long way in improving the quality of education offered to the pupils of the school while also impacting the community positively. In his remarks, the Managing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Mr Bhupendra Suri, who was represented by the Public Affairs & Communications Manager, Amaka Onyemelukwe, reiterated the company’s commitment to helping communities. “The Coca-Cola Foundation since its inception in 1984, has given back nearly $1 billion to help strengthen local communities worldwide. Originally focused on learning inside and outside the classroom, today the Foundation supports our global water leadership programmes, community recycling, and women’s economic empowerment programmes. It’s our belief that this project will impact positively in shaping the lives of these future leaders of our country,” he said. Speaking on the project, the Public Policy Analyst, Coca-Cola West Africa Business Unit, Mr Emeka Mba, explained that it consisted of five classrooms equipped with furniture; toilets for pupils and teachers; newly constructed playground; and a library equipped with audio-visual facilities. The Foundation also rehabilitated an old block of three classrooms; and provided potable water for the neighbourhood. “Today, teachers are motivated; school enrollment has since increased from 440 to 578 due to this scale of intervention. Electricity, which hitherto was a luxury to the school since it was founded in 1910, has now been installed through the converted advocacy of the Project team. The next phase of the support for curriculum development designed to enhance competitiveness of the pupils. A six-month literacy component of the programme would be deployed to the benefit of the schools in the LGEA to improve basic reading and writing skills, hygiene, responsible waste disposal and management” he added. Also speaking, former Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology and Ogun State House of Assembly member-elect, Mrs Modupe Mujota, praised Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Ogun State SUBEB, and the beneficiaries for the successful implementation of the project. In his remarks, the Chairman, Ogun SUBEB, Alhaji Abdul Jeleel Okewole described said the project  was a testimony of the benefits of Public Private Partnership (PPP) in bridging infrastructure gap in communities. He also praised the School Base Management Committee (SBMC) of the school under the Chairmanship of Alhaji Juwon Labode, and the workers for their effort towards the actualisation of the project.