THE Itoko, Abeokuta residence of the late Apala music maestro, Ayinla Waidi Omowura, is to be renovated by the Ogun State government as part of measures at recognising and immortalising some notable music icons from the state. The gesture is also aimed at preserving the late music legend’s achievements by turning the house into a tourist site. This effort is coming barely two weeks after the state government unveiled the late Fela Anikulapo Kuti’s family house in Abeokuta as Kuti Heritage Museum, in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Senior Consultant on Tourism and Culture to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Mrs. Yewande Amusan, disclosed this on Monday, during a memorial visit to the Abeokuta residence of the Apala music legend on the 39th anniversary of his death. Amusan, who was accompanied on the visit by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Information and Strategy, Mr. Rotimi Durojaiye, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Alhaja Selimot Ottun, and other senior government officials, described the late musician as someone who condemned social ills through his music, describing him an ombudsman to the oppressed. As a commentator on issues affecting the contemporary society, Amusan said that the late Omowura was noted for reeling out musical works either commending government policies or warning the society about certain governmental and individual acts. She said although the Amosun government had less than four weeks to end its eight-year tenure, the renovation of the dilapidating structure would be completed on record time. Speaking on behalf of the family, the eldest daughter of the late Apala musician, Alhaja Alimot Ayinla Omowura expressed gratitude to the Ogun State government for recognising and immortalising her father. She said the renovation of the building would boost the tourism potential of the state, create employment opportunities and preserve the remarkable achievements of her late father. She said the kind gesture would go down as the first of its kind in the relationship between the government and the family of the music icon. The late Omowura was born in Itoko, Abeokuta in 1933. He was stabbed on May 6, 1980 following a barroom brawl at Itoko, Abeokuta. He died before getting to the Ijaiye General Hospital, Abeokuta. His musical career took root when he started with a brand of music called “Olalomi” in the early 50’s. This brand of music was so popular that he became the darling of the young people both in Nigeria and the West coast of Africa. This brand faded with time. His career took a new dimension when he joined EMI Nigeria in 1970 and recorded a single titled Aja  to foju dejo  in June of that year. The tremendous success attained by the single was quickly followed by three other extended play records. One was recorded in September 1970- Ema fowo s’oya si wamo and the other two, Danfo o si ere”/”Ema tori owo pa’nia and Anjonu elere were recorded on the 20th of July 1971. His first album which was recorded in the same year was a chartbuster, with a release of over 50,000 copies. His success was so overwhelming that he became an idol to the masses – particularly among the public transport drivers, and the traders to mention a few. He left for Mecca and Medinat to perform the Muslim holy pilgrimage in 1975 and became Alhaji Ayinla Omowura. In the 10 years that he was on EMI NIGERIA label, all his 20 albums sold a minimum of 50,000 copies on the first day of release. Acutely popular, Omowura’s day of release was always a carnival at garages, beer parlours and even at parties. He recorded two albums at the same time in 1980, unfortunately only Awa kise olode won was released before his tragic death that year. The second one, 25+40 was released posthumously in 1981. He was married with many wives and children.