The recent presidential order revoking duly issued licenses to bear arms has sparked controversy. Many Nigerians are sceptical about the honest intentions of Mr President in making the order. They accuse President Muhammadu Buhari of double standard, in dealing with the security challenges constituted by the unlawfully armed herdsmen who have become a national menace. Majority of the commentators believe that such a measure will expose the law abiding citizens to danger, while giving advantage to the brigands who have made life nasty, short and brutish in Nigeria. Just before the presidential order, former President Olusegun Obasanjo raised the security stakes, by alleging plans by some extremists to Islamize and Fulanize the West African sub-region, using the Boko Haram and sundry criminal elements. While the charge to fulanize the sub-region is debatable, the Boko Haram had themselves owned up to the Islamization agenda, at least with respect to Nigeria. So while Obasanjo may be accused of bad belle against President Buhari’s re-election, the issues he raised are obvious security challenges facing our country and the sub-region. More so, the decision to cancel duly issued licenses, as an answer to the security challenges is largely a reactionary measure. After all, those who are terrorising the citizens, whether as kidnappers, highway robbers, cattle rustlers, armed herdsmen, and sundry bandits do not require licence to bear arms. So, those who will be affected are law abiding citizens who have taken administrative measure to stay within the law by applying for licence to own guns. They are the ones who use their guns to reasonably defend themselves from banditry, hunt for games and to socialize. Those opposed to the directive even argue that the presidential order is to give advantage to the armed herdsmen whom they believe the president has sympathy for. While that may be an extreme position against the president’s intention, the directive is clearly not the answer to the menace posed by armed banditry that is turning our country to a failed state. With more than half of the country under siege by various armed militia, it is strange that instead of confronting the bad eggs, the government is seeking the low hanging fruits as the answer. To exercise executive powers to render law abiding citizens powerless in the face of the inability of the state to protect them, is to submit the troubled citizens to general homicide. Of course, it is very easy to enforce the regulation against the law abiding citizens, but as has been shown, the state lacks the capacity to enforce it, ab initio, against the unlawfully armed persons who are the real dangers to our common well-being. Feeling disenchanted, a concerned citizen approached me for legal advice on the presidential directive. While this intervention is not a legal advice strictu senso, it is intended to enliven the debate about the state of insecurity and failing incapacity of the state to protect the citizens. The most famous legal provision about the right of citizens to bear arms is the second amendment to the American constitution. The amendment provides for: “a well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” This provision has been interpreted either as a collective or individual right to bear arms. Of course, Nigeria has no similar provision, and the law directly regulating possession of firearms, is the Firearms Act, Cap 146, Laws of the Federation 1990. The law generally provides that to bear arms, one must obtain a licence. Sections 3 provides that “no person shall have in his possession or under his control any firearm of one of the categories specified in Part 1 of the schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as a prohibited firearm) except in accordance with a licence granted by the President acting in his discretion.” Section 4 further provides: “no person shall have in his possession or under his control any firearm of one of the categories specified in Part II of the schedule to this act (hereinafter referred to as a personal firearm) except in accordance with a licence granted in respect thereof by the Inspector-General of Police, which licences shall be granted or refused in accordance with principles decided upon by the National Council of Ministers.” By these provisions the Nigeria law intends to regulate the bearing of any form of firearms. However, the Act predisposes the use of licences to regulate, and the regulation is to be exercised as an administrative power. So, in the exercise of the administrative power, dose the Nigerian constitution or the extant law envisage that such power must be exercised judicially and judiciously? As a constitutional democracy, can an administrative authority exercise its powers, even when a discretionary power, arbitrarily? Can a citizen, whose rights have been infringed upon, or is likely to be infringed upon by the exercise of discretionary power arbitrarily, seek the protection of the constitution against such exercise of power? The courts may be called upon to answer these and more questions to determine whether the President acted within his powers as provided by section 36 of the Firearms Act. The section provides: “the president if he thinks fit may at any time by proclamation prohibit the possession of or dealing in any firearms or ammunition, either throughout the federation or in any part thereof, and either absolutely or except subject to such restrictions or conditions as may be specified.” Could it be that the firearm within the contemplation of S.36 are only those the president is authorised to licence as provided by S.3? Even in the exercise of the discretionary powers in S.3, can the president act arbitrarily?   The 1999 constitution in S.33(1) provides: “every person has a right to life, and no one shall be deprived intentionally of his life.…” Can it be successfully argued that the right to bear arms to defend oneself in the face of the state failure to protect the citizens, is in tandem with section 33(1) aforesaid? In the exercise of discretionary powers, according to Ombudsman Western Australia guidelines, reviewed in April 2019, “the exercise of discretion requires good judgment.” Has the president exercised good judgment in making the proclamation of last week? Where a discretionary power is badly exercised, section 6(6)(b) of our constitution provides for judicial review. It is within such contemplation that it provides: “the judicial powers vested in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this section – shall extend to all matters between persons, or between government or authority and to any person in Nigeria, and to all action and proceedings relating thereto, for the determination of any question as to the civil rights and obligations of that persons.” Is the proclamation of the president such a matter for review?