DSP Bashir: I retired after 35 years of meritorious service from the Nigeria Police Pension on November 30, 2017. My gratuity to be paid to me is just less than N1.5 million.  I was told that my contribution was not made available to PenCom for trading. Please help me. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. ONYAKA: Please, does First Pension Guarantee Limited still exist as a pension fund manager? THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. ASP SAMUEL: I have written immediately to the Director of NPF Pension. One year arrears multiplied by four  gives  N1. 466, 804: 72k which is more than N1.176,516: 92k that I am paid for serving for 35yrs.  My personal savings is more than N1. 5 million. What has government given me for my service? My other counterparts are paid more than me. Please I am so disturbed. Even court clerks and messengers at state level can’t go home with one million naira? A course mate who is a traffic warden, ASP Monday, was paid N7 million and another fraction of N3 million. We both retired in March 2018. Please help me. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. SIMON: My name is Simon. I will like PenCom to kindly help me appeal to NPF Pension to pay my pension and gratuity. I retired in Decemcer, 2017 as DSP from Nigeria Police Force. But I have not received my pension and gratuity. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. ADIGUN: My name is Adigun and my PFA is FGPL.  The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired from 2016 to date. None of these sets has received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem we are having is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs from time to time. Kindly look into this and advise us on the way out of this predicament. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. IBRAHIM: My name is Ibrahim Mohammed Musa. I work with Nigeria Immigration Service, a DSI by Rank. My RSA initially was domiciled with the Acquired Amana Pension Limited, that was at the time of my documentation at Gwagwalada Para-military Board in 2009. After having registered with the Amana Pension Limited then before folding up, my pin was not given to me and I was left in the dark for quite a number of years until IPPIS, when I was made to understand that Sigma Pension acquired Amana pension limited. As I contacted Sigma Pension with a complaint, they advised me on a new RSA registration. Having done the registration and given the new pin number, they later called me and informed me of an old pin that Amana never gave to me and of course, Sigma advised me to use that old pin of which I agreed. My complaint is, as IPPIS started paying my salary, Sigma is updating me on my pension deduction based on the deduction from the Commencement of IPPIS without the previous balance from my RSA hitherto domiciled with Amana. Please, I need your help. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news.