A Federal High Court in Lagos has remanded two businessmen, Emmanuel Anthony Nnan and John Paul Ejike, in prison custody for alleged importation and sale of substandard gas cylinders. The duo were remanded in prison after their arraignment alongside their company – Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). They are to remain in custody pending the perfection of the N50 million bail granted them by the court. The defendants were arraigned before Justice Saliu Saidu on Monday on a five-count charge and pleaded not guilty to the charges. The court consequently adjourned till June 18 for their trial and ordered their remand in prison custody pending the perfection of their bail terms. The prosecutor, Mr. Adeleke Olofindare, alleged that the defendants had committed the offences of forgery, importation and sale of substandard gas cylinder, which contravened the SON Act. A part of the charge read: “That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan, of Plot 18, 32D, House 1, Close 3rd Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, John Paul Ejike of 50, Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo, Lagos on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office No. 3 Boma Road Apapa, Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did conspire to make a false documents in writing, knowing same to be false with intent that the false documents to wit; SON product certificate knowing same to be false with intent that the false document will be used as genuine and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 465 and punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code Act CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan, of Plot 18 32D, House 1 Close 3′ (1 Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo, Lagos, on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office, No. 3 Boma Road, Apapa, Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did forged SON product registration certificate with intention of causing same to be believed to have been issued by SON and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 465 and punishable under Section 467 of the Criminal Code Act CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. “That you Emmanuel Anthony Nnan, of Plot 18 32D, House 1 Close 3rd Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, John Paul Ejike of 50 Bornu Crescent, Apapa, Lagos and Star Master Electrical Co. Ltd of No. 2 Royal Plaza Alaba Market, Ojo, Lagos, on or about April 24, 2019, while at SON office No. 3 Boma Road Apapa, Lagos State within the jurisdiction of this honourable court deal in and having in your possession imported gas cylinders which is not of quality which you represented it to be and thereby commit an offence punishable under Section 1 (18) (ii) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, CAP M17 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 .”