It is true that journalism is a highly stressful, demanding and poorly paid profession. So, the sheer extent of the pressures, vicissitudes and other hazards faced by working journalists, writers and social critics, even in Western “democracies” that supposedly value journalism as the fourth estate of the realm, continue to be seen as a shock to many. Studies reveal that about 70 per cent of journalists and writers experience one form of intimidation, psychological violence, harassment and other undesired treatment in their careers on a regular basis. Worse still, about 35 per cent has, indeed, been subjected to physical violence in which they sustained injuries to their persons. Mahmud Hussein, an Al-Jazeera journalist, is incarcerated in Egypt without trial for over two years. Some, like Jamaal Khassoggi of Saudi Arabia, actually paid the ultimate price with their lives. It is worth noting that at the critical center of our value of human rights and democracy; simply put our belief and emphasis of the human manifesto, lays the right and privilege to be provided with, receive, impart and disseminate information. So is the capacity to freely express oneself a prerequisite to the progressive development of nations, individuals and any society. I n the last few decades or so, however, the world has seen an escalation of threats to the rights of freedom of expression, the ability to receive and disseminate information and other such pillars of democratic societies. If not already, believe me, it is coming to your town, village or country very soon! Journalists and writers have very important roles to play as important critical voices that help in the freedom to receive and impart information which helps in the sustenance and maintenance of our democratic institutions. They serve as watchdogs; they enable and encourage public debate of issues about society, they hold people in positions of power to account by speaking the truth and so on. Generally, therefore, one is not so much surprised that over the last decades, with increases in knowledge, technology, the proliferation of media outlets, a number of societal forces have been brought into play that now threaten these critical and essential voices. Our dear country is no exception to these trends. The need to have a clearer picture of the situation to put in place preventative measures and strategies to combat these threats and permit journalists and writers the opportunities to do their jobs efficiently and effectively; and consequently, to uphold democratic institutions, is more essential than ever. In what forms are these threats manifested, the reader may ask? I will offer a few: True, a blatant clampdown on journalism would be difficult to justify in many contemporary societies but the long-term psychological effects of less overt methods may for the same reason be more difficult to expose, and, therefore, condemn. So why are governments, corporations, indeed, societies clamping down on journalism/writings, and the practitioners? I will like to focus on two issues from the Nigerian perspective. First, many journalists/writers have been selling mistrust for years; too much mistrust of institutions, mistrust of individuals, too much mistrust of themselves as well while expanding the various media and methodologies utilised in the process. Certain social media categories fall into this genre. They are literarily inviting government clampdown given what they report and the way they do it. Second, governments, corporations and society are attacking the core fundamental values of the profession because of the developments and emergence of technology in the digital age. So, they claim that they are clamping down on the profession in the name of protecting us by “denying” us the convenience of being informed. While there may be some element of truth in this assertion, in the process, these powerful entities are creating a host of choke points that curtail the very essence of the profession and locking down more and more of our computing and communications gear, methods and processes while creating a system of control over what we say, read, hear and do. Journalists/writers should be the leading teachers of media literacy. Only the ones who engage in the profession with integrity, honesty of purpose and a genuine interest of society will be among the biggest beneficiaries, because they’ll foster much more trust in their own work. Remember that as “cash paying customers,” people will pay for products and services they really can trust. Nigerians are no exception.