Franck Ribery will leave Bayern Munich at the end of his contract this summer, the Bundesliga club said on Sunday. Ribery, 36, has made over 400 appearances and won 21 major honours with Bayern since joining from Marseille in 2007. His trophies include eight Bundesliga titles, the Champions League, Super Cup and Club World Cup. “When I came to Bayern, it was a dream come true. It won’t be easy to say goodbye, but we must never forget what we’ve achieved together, we’ve won so much — more than 20 honours,” Ribery told the club’s official website. Former France international Ribery will join fellow veteran forward Arjen Robben in leaving the club at the end of the campaign, breaking up the iconic “Robbery” partnership at the Allianz Arena. Bayern confirmed they will honour the duo with a testimonial match in 2020. Franck Ribery joined Bayern from Marseille in 2007. “Franck and Arjen are great players,” Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said. “FC Bayern owes a lot to both of them and we will give them a wonderful and emotional farewell. They’ve helped shape FC Bayern’s most successful decade with fantastic football.” Ribery can still add two more pieces of silverware this season, with Bayern on the brink of the Bundesliga title after beating Hannover 3-1 on Saturday, while they face RB Leipzig in the final of the DFB Pokal later this month. “I don’t have a concrete plan for next season yet,” Ribery added. “I’m not sure where I can go to play football. I will keep playing but nothing is 100 percent certain yet.” He has been linked with a move to the Middle East with Al-Saad (Qatar), Al Duhail (Qatar) and Al Nasr (Saudi Arabia). Donald “Cowboy” Cerrone told everyone he was coming for the UFC’s lightweight title in 2019. He was not kidding. Cerrone (36-11) picked up a huge decision victory over Al Iaquinta (14-5-1) at UFC Fight Night on Saturday in Ottawa, Ontario. Cerrone, a 36-year-old veteran with nearly 50 professional fights under his belt, gained steam as the five-round bout played out and nearly finished Iaquinta multiple times with strikes. All three judges scored it a dominant showcase for Cerrone, via scores of 49-45, 49-45 and 49-46. “Not bad for ‘Day Drinkin’ Don,’ huh?” Cerrone said. “I guess I’m doing it for all the old people out there. There’s still a chance.” Donald Cerrone, left, dropped Al Iaquinta with a front kick to the chin in Round 4. Iaquinta was also knocked down by a jab late in the third round. Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images It was Cerrone’s second victory since he dropped to the 155-pound division after competing in the 170-pound division from 2016 to 2018. After his previous win, an impressive TKO over rising prospect Alexander Hernandez, Cerrone admitted he wouldn’t mind fighting former champion Conor McGregor on his way to the belt. The UFC explored it, but the bout didn’t come together. He reiterated his interest in a title shot — and McGregor — on Saturday. “I want the title, whatever that means,” Cerrone said. “Unless, Conor McGregor, you want to fight me in July. I’m ready.” Already the most winningest fighter in UFC history going into Saturday, Cerrone still looked very much in his prime against Iaquinta. He dropped Iaquinta with a jab late in the third round, and again with a front kick to the chin in the fourth. Before Saturday, Iaquinta had never been dropped in his MMA career. By the end of the bout, Iaquinta’s face was a bloody mess. A ringside physician checked on Iaquinta’s injuries before allowing him to go out for the fifth round. After the bout, he could barely walk, due to the damage Cerrone inflicted with leg kicks. Despite the loss, Iaquinta, 32, showed a lot of heart, and he did rock Cerrone multiple times in the second round. He caught a kick to the body and delivered a hard counter right hand that definitely grabbed the attention of the older fighter. Current lightweight champion Khabib Nurmagomedov is expected to defend his title next against interim champion Dustin Poirier in September. McGregor is still not booked for a fight. He has not fought since a loss to Nurmagomedov at UFC 229 in October.  ESPN