Chief Alexander Mwolwus, a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State has commended the Federal Government over its new directive on direct disbursement of Local Government Area (LGA) funds from the federation account. Mwolwus disclosed this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Pankshin. The federal government has ordered that federal allocations to LGAs be disbursed directly to their respective bank accounts starting from June 2019. According to him, the directive means that LGAs allocations will go to their bank without going through their governors as was the case with Joint Account System. “The directive is the best thing that ever happened to the 774 LGAs in the country, which have over the years been short changed by their respective state governors,” he said. Mwolwus, an ex-Chief of Staff to former Gov. Joshua Dariye described the new directive as “very apt’’ and a “good omen’’ to the local government system. He said expressed optimism that the new order would stimulate development at the grassroots levels. “It’s my candid belief that the new order will indeed bring the desired development at the grassroots as well as allow the spread of dividends of democracy to the electorate. “Another plus to the order is that it will help checkmate most of our state governors, who have blatantly refused to conduct local government elections. “The governors have continued to use caretaker chairmen to siphon LGAs funds. I am happy that the new rules also states that LGAs without elected chairmen will not get allocation from the federation account. “Many of the states without elected chairmen should hurriedly conduct their election so as not to be left out from their subventions, this is indeed a blessing in disguise,’’ Mwolwus stated. He said the new rule would catch up with the state, which has four LGAs without elected chairmen out of the 17 LGAs in the state. “The new rule will catch up with the Plateau, which has four LGAs without elected chairmen out of the 17 LGAs in the state,” he said. The four LGAs include- Riyom, Barkin-Ladi, Jos-North and Jos-South where elections were not held during the Oct. 10, 2018 LG poll in the state,’’ he said. Mwolwus, however, urged the LGA chairmen and other officials to ensure prudent management of the funds to disabuse the minds of many that associate them with corruption. NAN 