The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) in the last one year met its commitments  to the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN), its immediate past president,  Shehu Ladan, has said. Ladan, who spoke at the association’s 37th Annual General Meeting in Abuja, said the group also fulfilled its obligations to the Pan African Federation of Accountants (PAFA), the Association of Accounting Bodies in West Africa (ABWA), the International Federation for Accounting Education and Research (IAAER) and the Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL). According to him, these obligations include the payment of membership fees and active participation in their scheduled programmes. “We maintained cordial relationship with our partners – the Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CPA) of Ireland, South Africa Institute of Public Accountants (SAIPA) and the Institute of Public Accountants (IPA) Australia,’’ Ladan said. He noted that the association  has relocated its secretariat to Abuja. Last year, Ladan recalled, the association started the process of relocating the secretariat as agreed at its April 30, 2004 AGM. Ladan said the association sustained its quest for the removal of barriers and discrimination against ANAN members, especially on the placement of ANAN members on Grade Level 10 at the point of entry in the public service and ‘‘at the same time upgrading ANAN members below Grade Level 10 to level 10’’. “To achieve this, we visited President Muhammadu Buhari on 12th October, 2018. The issue is on the verge of getting resolved by the National Council on Establishment (NCE),’’ he said. Ladan said ANAN signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) on November 19, last year to afford members the opportunity to practise taxation and hold joint professional training. Besides, he said the association sent the names of two members of the association – Dr Al-Mustapha Aliyu and Princess Elemanya Ebila – to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) to serve as Tax Appeal Commissioners for Abuja and Lagos. To make ANAN branches strong, he explained that a retreat was held in February, last year for the executives of ANAN branches at the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos. Ladan said ANAN did not relent in fostering its relationship with tertiary institutions as it inaugurated an Accounting Research Centre at Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. The immediate past president announced that a book on the History of ANAN was being written by a committee headed by Prof. Benjamin Osisioma. He added that the NCA study materials (study packs) were revised with support from IFAC and DFID. Ladan announced that a new e-MCPD platform had been constructed. Also, the ANAN Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Nuruddeen Abdullahi, noted that the Annual Conference of the association with the theme “ Economic recovery and growth: Issues and options’’, was held  last October in Abuja. He said the conference was attended by over 4,000 participants, including top government functionaries, leaders of international and national professional bodies, captains of industry, monarchs, among others. The registrar noted that during the year under review, 3,339 members were inducted into ANAN. “This reflects an upward increase in admission of members over the previous year. The induction ceremonies were held in Enugu, Edo, Sokoto, Gombe and Lagos states,’’ Abdullahi said. He said pre-membership training by the NCA in Jos received a boost. “Professional Examination A, B, and Conversion were held in January, March and June. Also, 2,988 candidates sat for the final examination (PEB) in May/June 2018. Of this number, 2,241 representing 75 per cent passed; 504 had reference in one or two subjects while 57 candidates failed. “During the period under review there was no case of malpractice and as such, the panel did not have to sit, ‘’ the registrar said. The registrar added that quality assurance  inspection of firms was carried out in 31 firms. According to him, some of the firms did not meet quality assurance requirements and were advised to redress their areas of weaknesses in the year. “Also inspection of offices of the applicant firms for the issuance of practising licence was carried out during the year. Those that met the required minimum standard for practice office were recommended for practising licence,’’ Abdullahi said. He noted that during the year under review, 24 new firms were granted practising licence. 