It’s great to have you back today. Last week, we explored the importance of looking within us and bring out the hidden treasures. I shared with you the story of Leslie Calvin “Les” Brown, who was born on the floor in an abandoned building and was later labeled “Educable Mentally Retarded” (EMR). Les listened to the teacher who told him, “Never let other people’s opinion of you become your reality” and went on to become one of the world’s greatest public speakers. In one of his special TV programmes titled: “You Deserve!”, Les Brown told the story of how he was in the audience one day, listening to Zig Ziglar, whom he considered to be one of the greatest motivational speakers on the planet. As Les watched Zig move back and forth while delivering his speech, he said to himself: “I would like to do that. I can do that’. He leaned over to the person sitting next to him and asked, “How much do they pay him to do that?” The man replied, “Five thousand dollars”, and Les said with a smile, “I know I can do that”. However, on the way home as he was driving, his inner conversation kicked in and said, “Les Brown, you can’t do that. You don’t have college education. You don’t have money. You don’t have contacts. You’ve never worked for major corporations. What makes you think that you can make more in one hour talking than you make working for a year?” So, for several years, he talked himself out of his dream until he finally had the courage to take the bold step. Decades after Les Brown became a world-famous public speaker, he reflected on the years he wasted convincing himself that he could not do what he actually could do. He said the easiest thing he does presently is to speak, train people to speak and make presentations before thousands of people. However, the most difficult thing he had ever done was to believe that it was possible. A lot of times, the process of believing in ourselves is far tougher than pursuing our dreams. Les Brown says many people think of great things to do and they talk themselves out of it. According to him, that inner conversation is the reason most people take their greatness and ideas to the graveyard with them. It is bad enough for people to tell you that you can’t make it; it is worse for you to tell yourself so. If people can’t see your gift, you can. So, what is the idea you are currently talking yourself out of? What opportunity are you letting go because you think you are not good enough? If you look inside you, you will see that you are up to the task, with God on your side, of course. Stop focusing on your failures; start concentrating on your successes. I’m not saying that you shouldn’t learn from the past. But after learning, you must focus on the future. If you act on the gift in you, you will make the world, and not the cemetery, a richer place. Do you dare to take the step? Do you dare to shut out all the “I can’t” and focus on the “I can”? Yours can be the next inspiring story that would be told if only you make the choice to stop limiting yourself and look within you. When you look inside, what do you see? Thanks for reading my article today. I would really love to hear from you. So, do share your views with me by sending SMS to 07034737394, visiting www.olanreamodu.com and following me on twitter @lanreamodu. Remember, you are currently nothing compared to what you can become. This can be your year if you want it to be!   