President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday was sworn in for second term in office. The Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo was also sworn in at the Eagles Square venue of the 2019 Presidential inauguration ceremony. The swearing in was conducted by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Mohammed Tanko. There were also Muslim and Christian prayers for the President and the nation. At the brief ceremony, there was lowering and hoisting of the National and Defence flag. signifying the end of immediate past dispensation and beginning of a new dispensation Apart from 21 gun salute, the military also displayed advance movements in review order. President Buhari also inspected the Guard of Honour and acknowledged cheers from guests before departing the venue. The President and the Vice President did not deliver any speech at the low-key ceremony. The Guard of Honour Parade comprising different military formation, army, navy and the air force and the Police were also on ground to entertain guests. Dignitaries at the ceremony included the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress and Co-Chairman of the 2019 Presidential Campaign Council, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande. Also at the ceremony were the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, the Speaker of the House of Representative, Yakubu Dogara, former EFCC Chairman, Nuhu Ribadu. Also at the venue were the former Head of State Yakubu Gowon, Wife of the President Aisha Buhari, Wife of the Vice President Dolapo Osinbajo, APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and some members of the immediate past cabinet. Governors at the ceremony included the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu. Former Governors at the ceremony included Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State, Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, Rauf Aragbesola of Osun State, Senator Goodwill Akpabio and members of the Diplomatic Corps also graced the occasion. There was tight security around the Eagles Square venue of the 2019 Presidential inauguration in Abuja. All entrances leading into the Federal Capital City, Abuja were also manned by soldiers who screen vehicles and passengers entering the city. The Nigerian Army had on May 4, raised the alarm that some elements including foreign collaborators had planned to disrupt the swearing-in ceremony.  