FORMER Ekiti State Governor Segun Oni is in deeper trouble with All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in his native Ifaki-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area. This is coming barely two weeks after losing an eligibility suit filed against Governor Kayode Fayemi at the Supreme Court. The party leaders have summoned Oni to come and defend himself within seven days against allegations levelled against him by party members. Oni, a former APC Deputy National Chairman (South), had challenged Fayemi’s victory at the May 12, 2018 governorship primary in which he came second after he had 2congratulated the winner. The ex-governor, in his suit, claimed that Fayemi was not eligible to stand as the APC flagbearer because he did not resign from office as Minister of Mines and Steel Development 30 days before the shadow election. Oni also averred in his suit that the White Paper issued by a Judicial Commission of Inquiry raised by former Governor Ayo Fayose indicted Fayemi and barred him from holding public office for 10 years. Prominent party leaders, including the state APC Elders’ Forum, had begged Oni to withdraw the case after the suit was filed at the Federal High Court, but the former governor insisted on pursuing the case to a logical conclusion. But, the Ifaki-born politician failed in his bid to sack Fayemi from office as his case was thrown out by the Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti; Court of Appeal sitting in Ado Ekiti and the Supreme Court in Abuja, which all held that his case lacked merit. The summon APC executives in Ifaki Ward 2 was contained in a letter dated April 24, 2019, seen by The Nation yesterday and it was signed by Ward Chairman and Ward Secretary and addressed to Oni. The letter reads: “We the executive members of the APC, Ifaki Ekiti hereby requests your presence at the Ilero Town Hall, Ilogbe, Ifaki Ekiti to clear some allegations against your person by some members of the APC Ward II, Ifaki Ekiti. “Kindly indicate by informing the Chairman of the APC Ward II, Ifaki Ekiti the convenient time and date to meet the executive members within the next seven days of the receipt of this letter. “Please treat as very urgent.” The state APC Publicity Secretary, Chief Ade Ajayi, confirmed the disciplinary action being taken by the party leaders against Oni. Ajayi, a former House of Assembly member, said the party’s constitution provides for disciplinary action against any erring member. He said: “The party is bigger than any individual and the party’s constitution stipulates disciplinary action against any member found to have contravened party rules and regulations. “The party constitution provides that any disciplinary action against any member should start from his ward where such an individual will be given an opportunity to defend himself.” Fayemi had within hours of winning the primary, visited Oni and other fellow contestants as a gesture of reconciliation and request to work together. Oni was also offered the Ekiti North senatorial ticket, which he ceded to fellow Ifaki indigene who represented the district between 2011 and 2015, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi. 