AS the United Nations and the government of India celebrate the 150th anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, LightYear Entertainment is in partnership with the High Commission of India in Nigeria to stage an Indo African Peace Festival in Lagos and Abuja. Some events slated for the festival include Gandhi: The Musical holding on August 9, 2019, Game of Peace concert, Indo African Fashion Week, Peace Exhibition, Peace March and Peace Symposium taking place at multiple venues across Lagos. The peace festival is geared towards extolling the virtues demonstrated by Mahatma Gandhi. Speaking in Lagos, Mr Ovosa Precious Oroye, the Chairman of Indo African Peace Festival Committee said that the Indo-African Peace Festival which celebrates peace and non-violence is a six month festival. “The festival is a major call for value reorientation in all strata of society and also to raise awareness in peace building activities and non-violence in tackling violent extremism, mental health issues, youth restiveness, drug abuse, police brutality, religious feuds , tribalism,” said Oroye. “The Gandhi musical and fashion week will engage with talented youths and the 50,000 plus Indians in Nigeria that will promote Indo-African fashion values, sculpture and paintings.” A performance by the LightYear Entertainment Troupe had five artistes dressed to depict Fela Kuti, Moremi, Martin Luther King and Mahatma Gandhi. Mr Sanjay Srivastava, president of Afro Asian Initiative For Community Development stated that the initiative was laudable and had the strong backing of High Commission of India. “The world has been celebrating Mahatma Gandhi as we look at his lifestyle and selflessness. Gandhi influence every sector including fashion of the Indians as his indigenous clothing proverbially weaved people into action, equal rights and non-violence as a powerful means of conflict resolution,” Sanjay said. “This peace festival will further preach his message as we aim to quell violence and promote peace in the society.” The #IAPF seeks both technical and financial support from well meaning Nigerians who believe in Gandhi’s ideals. Mr Azeez Oluwakayode who is a board member and media director stated that never has there been a festival of this magnitude that is being led by youths who are young professionals in their respective fields, and have a serious concern for societal issues. “Indo African Peace Festival is already being hailed as the Festival of the Decade,” Kayode added.