THis year’s Nigeria Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Expo (NPME 2019), organised by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (PMG-MAN), is poised to reverse the dependence on imported medicines. The NPME 2019, billed to hold from August 28 to 29, at the New Haven in Ikeja GRA, Lagos, seeks to address the dwindling fortunes of the drug manufacturing industry to achieve medicine security. This was the thrust of an address by Dr. Fidelis Ayebae, chairman of NPME 2019, at a press conference to herald the event. If this year’s objective is met as envisaged, it will further empower the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry with the technical capability and expertise to produce high quality, safe and affordable medicines in the country, he stressed. The founder and Chief Executive Officer of Fidson Healthcare Limited noted that the expo would also showcase local drug manufacturers, and serve as an avenue to bring in new technologies to help pharmaceutical industries upgrade their practices and technologies. “The fake drugs in Nigeria go between two to three per cent and they are mainly imported drugs. There is no single locally-manufactured drug that is fake. That is why the only panacea for fighting fake drug is to develop and support local manufacturers. There are no drugs that cannot be manufactured in Nigeria and there is no technology that local drug manufacturers in Nigeria do not have. The primary objective of the expo is to expose the activities of the local drug manufacturers to Nigerians,” he emphasised. Ayebae said the theme of this year’s expo, “Strategic Collaboration for medicine security, affordability and national sufficiency,” was chosen  to address the multi-faceted challenges confronting the industry in an economy that encouraged importation of drugs the country could produce. He, however, said he was optimistic that the country could leverage opportunities provided by the expo, which promises strategic collaborations between local and international partners, to reverse the trend of 70-30 ratio of medicine importation against local manufacturing. Stressing the need for the government’s support for local pharmaceutical industry, he clarified that protection for local manufacturing of drugs would help curtail the influx of fake and substandard medicines into the country, as there would be no need to resort to importation for drugs that readily available in the country. Ayebae seemed to have a supporter in Orimadegun Agboade, chairman and managing director, Orfema Pharmaceuticals Industry Limited, who also urged the government to place a ban on essential medicines into the country as it is done in other countries to protect their local pharmaceutical manufacturers. This, he said, would stop the importation of fake drugs circulating across the nation, stressing that it is high time Nigeria evolved a favourable policy environment for local manufacturers if the country is really serious about shutting its doors against substandard drugs that ruin both lives and the national economy. To this end, Ayebae and Agboade asked the government to initiate the pharmaceutical industry intervention fund to support local manufacturers and boost the economy, adding that the industry is as important as other sectors that have benefited from the government interventions. The N300 billion intervention fund, if granted by government, is for upgrade and capacity building for local pharmaceutical manufacturers. Other outcomes from the expo include a stimulation of employment opportunities in the pharmaceutical sector, increase in inflow of foreign direct investment (FDI) and export of Nigerian medicines to neighbouring countries. Touted as the biggest international pharma-manufacturing expo in Central and West Africa, NPME 2019 is expected to attract no fewer than 200 international pharma machinery exhibition firms from six countries with nearly 10,000 pharma and related sectors, trade professionals from across the region, including at least 150 Nigerian exhibitors. The expo, which will focus on pharmaceutical machinery and equipment, is in partnership with GPE EXPO PVT India. This, they said, will create a platform for pharmaceutical stakeholders’ collaboration and engagement, which will in bring about an improvement of manufacturing technologies in West and Central Africa.