The Court of Appeal in Lagos will on June 30, receive a report of settlement in a N2.2billion dispute between Obodex Nigeria Ltd and Access Bank Plc. A three-man panel of the court led by Justice Abubakar Tijani fixed the date following commencement of out-of-court settlement between the parties. Obodex is owned by former Petroleum Minister, Chief Don Etiebet. The bank and Etiebet have been parties to multiple suits arising from counter claims between them, following a transaction between the bank and Top Oil and Gas Nigeria Ltd, also owned by Etiebet. Following Top Oil and Gas’ alleged N2.2bn debt to Access Bank, the bank sued Etiebet’s Obodex, which had guaranteed the credit facility to the oil firm with a property called Etiebet’s Place. The Federal High Court in Lagos, last December 17, granted an interlocutory order in favour of Mr Kunle Ogunba SAN, who Access Bank appointed as receiver/manager to recover the alleged N2.2bn. On April 15, 2019, the Federal High Court refused an application for a stay of execution of the interlocutory order, following which Obodex, on April 16, approached the appellate court. When the motion on notice came up last Wednesday, Obodex’s counsel, Mr Dele Adesina, told the panel that parties in the matter had agreed to resolve the issues out-of-court. “There have been very positive developments, so, the fireworks may not be necessary anymore. I pray your lordships to adjourn so that parties can concretise settlement options,” Adesina said. The Silk’s disclosure was confirmed by counsel to the respondent, Mr. Etimen Oriaifo, following which the justices granted the prayer. Similarly, Justice Muhammad Liman of the Federal High Court, Lagos, last Tuesday, adjourned the substantive matter till June 4, 2019 for hearing of terms of settlement between the parties. The judged arrived at the decision following the position of counsel to the plantiff (Access Bank), Divine Obinna, that parties had reached an advanced stage of out-of-court settlement, a position confirmed by Evaristus Asuzu, who held legal brief for Obodex. 