The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) cannot appreciate good governance because it spent its 16 years in power mismanaging the country and entrenching wrongdoing as the norm, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has said. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, the nation’s capital, by its Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary Cassidy Madueke, the organisation noted that the PDP, in the 16 years it ran the affairs of the country, up-ended normalcy and adopted irregularities as the norm. It said the main opposition had been displaying the inability to understand good governance under the President Muhammau Buhari administration. “We are not surprised to read the statements by the PDP, throwing tantrums and accusing the All Progressives Congress (APC) of everything possible and for anything happening in the country. The statements smack of the party’s inability to see and appreciate good governance and strong institutions. “For instance, the investigation by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) of Senate President Saraki Bukola is a simple case of an institution doing its work. If Saraki, a member of the PDP, has a case to answer, let him do so. An innocent man with no skeletons in his cupboard has nothing to fear. “Nigeria has institutions with the mandate of investigating fraud and financial malfeasance. If they find a person to be a suspect in the breach of any of our laws in this regard, they would act accordingly, investigate and prosecute, where necessary. “It is unfortunate that the PDP is not used to seeing institutions working and is consequently confused by the sight of them working without being tele-guided. “President Buhari respects institutions and does not interfere with their work. He believes that institutions must be allowed to do their work and not be meddled with. “The PDP is not used to this as, during its 16 years in government, it employed government institutions as tools for bullying critics and silencing opposition.” The group assured the nation that President Buhari would not bastardise government institutions, adding that because of his respects for the nation’s Federal system, he would not interfere with the domestic affairs of states. Also, the BMO accused the PDP of embarking on a fruitless ego trip with its criticism of Federal Government’s decision to schedule some Inauguration Day ceremonies on June 12. The group described the opposition as mischievous for suggesting that President Buhari would be inaugurated for a second term in office on the day, as opposed to May 29, which the Constitution recognises as the inauguration day for a new political dispensation. In a separate statement by Akinsiju and Madueke, the BMO said it was amused that a party, which outright refused to recognise the sanctity of June 12 for 16 years, wanted to be seen as the defender of Nigeria’s democratic culture. “Here is a party that is today speaking on what it described as sanctity of a day that it has the temerity to term as ‘our Democracy Day’.  Yet, it was in total control of the Executive and Legislature at the centre for all of 16 years during which it had three different Presidents but failed to do anything to accord official recognition to a day that it now agrees is important in the annals of Nigeria’s political history. “We are indeed shocked that the party, whose members were the biggest beneficiaries of June 12 sacrifice, now remembers that (the late Bashorun) Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola ‘stood and died for democracy’, but did everything possible to stop him from being immortalised while it rode roughshod over Nigeria and Nigerians. “It is, therefore, nothing more than an ego trip to nowhere for the PDP to criticise the Federal Government’s decision to move some second-term inauguration ceremonies to June 12 and yet seek to claim the day as ‘our democracy day’. “But we need to let opposition elements know that whether inauguration ceremonies are held on May 29 or June 12, the President did enough in his first term to earn the trust of majority of Nigerians who cast their ballots on February 23,” it said.  