As the 9th Senate Assembly moves towards electing new officers to pilot the affairs of the Red Chamber, members of the All Progressive Congress in Delta, Edo in Diaspora have endorsed Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege for the position of the Deputy Senate President. They have also appealed to the leadership of the party to do the needful and present Barr. Ovie Omo-Agege as consensus candidate for the Deputy Senate President since the party has, in its wisdom, zoned the position to South-south region. In a statement by the Delta, Edo states Coordinators, APC in Diaspora, Princely Ovakpo, representing Urhobo, Anioma, ljaws, and others and Nosa Obaobowha, representing the Binis, Ishan, Akoko-Edo, Ugbogi and others, said supporting Omo-Agege will enhance robust relationship between the legislature and the executive. They said, “APC should look beyond the ordinary and allow a fearless and articulated lawmaker who knows the workings of the legislative business and won’t concede to opposition be given a responsibility such as the Deputy Senate President and not someone who can’t defend his party. “So, we are calling on Mr. President and the party leadership to grant their request by ensuring Omo-Agege is given the opportunity to serve as the Deputy Senate President for a peaceful and sustainable leadership. This is our request after the victory of our leader, President Buhari. “Omo-Agege has been tested and confirmed as one of the loyalists of the President-Elect, so nominating such a person to work with the Senate President, the president can go and sleep with his two eyes closed considering how he has fought severally to defend the pre-election electoral law. “We have no doubt that if he is given the privilege to serve, he will build a bridge between the legislature and the executive with a robust relationship that will bring in rapid development across the country, hence there is this call on the party leadership to give him the room to serve. “We quite know that making him the Deputy Senate President, militancy will be a thing of the past; having a Niger-Deltan, Omo-Agege there will ensure their activities are brought to the barest minimum since the Deputy Senate President is one of their own,” they said. 