Despite the fluctuations in the market, the Organi-sation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) will continue to ensure its stability. This was the decision of participants at the14th meeting of OPEC’s Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The JMMC expressed its satisfaction with the role the Declaration of Cooperation played in the oil market recovery in the first quarter of the year compared to the fourth quarter of last year. OPEC noted that last month’s conformity rate was 168 per cent, and that the figure was a record, adding that it has had positive effect on global economic growth in the first four months of the year. Average conformity has reached 120 per cent since January, it said. The committee noted that a flexible approach had been critical to the success of the Declaration. Since the Declaration was signed on December 10, 2016, the partners have adapted the course depending on market conditions. “When the market appeared skewed to oversupply, voluntary production adjustments were adopted and implemented, as was the case in December 2016 and December 2018. Equally, when concerns regarding demand outpacing supply surfaced as the market tightened, as was the case in June 2018, partners in the Declaration of Cooperation took appropriate action,” the committee said. Oil market conditions and macroeconomic developments also recognised that critical uncertainties remain, including trade negotiations, monetary policy developments and geopolitical challenges. The JMMC requested that the OPEC Joint Technical Committee and the OPEC Secretariat continue to monitor and analyse oil market developments, particularly, oil inventory projections in the coming weeks to the next JMMC meeting making a recommendation to the OPEC Conference and OPEC and non-OPEC Ministerial Meeting, for next month, on appropriate actions on the part of participating countries for the second half of the year. The 15th JMMC meeting will hold next month at the OPEC Secretariat in Vienna, Austria.