Mr Gasser Nasser, an expatriate worker with the Zenith Construction Company, Mbiaya, in Uruan Local Government Area (LGA) of Akwa Ibom has been rescued from kidnappers. Nasser was rescued by officers of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the state police command. Police Public Relations’ Officer,  SP Odiko Macdon, disclosed this while briefing newsmen at the command’s headquarters in Uyo on Friday. Macdon said three suspect kidnappers who attempted to escape during the rescued operation were gunned down by the police. “On May 17, Special Anti Robbery Squad operatives of the command, rescued a foreign national, one Gasser Nasser. “A staff of the Zenith Construction company, Mbiaya, Uruan, who was abducted on Tuesday, April 30, by hoodlums who shot and killed one Sgt. Kabir Mohammed of 26 Mobile Police Force, but attached to zone 6 for special duty,  and carted away his AK-47 riffle. “The hoodlums responsible for the kidnap have been involved in high profile kidnapping and murder cases in the state over the years. “This include the kidnapping of retired Gen. Edet Akpan,  the killing of his Royal Highness, Robert Obot, the Paramount Ruler of Nsit Ubuim, the killing of Dr Udosen of St. Lukes Hospital, Anua among others. “The suspects were also involved in a lot of robberies around Uyo and Calabar, and three suspects who were attempting to escape during the rescue operation were gunned down,” Macdon said. Narrating his ordeal, the rescued expatriate, Nasser said he was inside his car in Uruan LGA when a vehicle with registration number UKW 707 pulled up in front of his car that faithful day. According to him, three young men alighted from the vehicle and started shooting directly into his vehicle He said that police sergeant attached to him was shot dead and he was dragged into the waiting vehicle and later taken away to an unknown destination. “I thought they were ordinary people until one of them shot inside our vehicle and killed the police man  who was with me. “They later dragged me into their own car and sped off into the bush, I was there till today when the Nigeria police came to rescue me. I ate banana and bread for 17 days, ” he said. NAN