Findings of a new study have shown that rates of psychotic disorders. such as schizophrenia, are higher in Oyo State than expected. This is one of the new discoveries in a study that investigated risk factors and health needs associated with mental disorders on an international scale. Researchers at the University of Ibadan (UI), in collaboration with their colleagues at the King’s College London, United Kingdom, conducted the study. Their latest study revealed that rates of psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia in Ibadan were higher than expected based on previous international research (29.1 per 100,000 person-years, which was higher than in India and Trinidad, the other two sites in the study). Psychotic disorders are conditions in which people experience symptoms such as hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that are not there) and false thoughts or beliefs (delusions). These disorders usually begin at a young age, when people are in their twenties, and can cause long term distress and disability. According to the findings, almost 90 per cent of cases of psychosis identified by the team in Ibadan received a diagnosis of schizophrenia. The researchers also found that the majority of people with psychotic disorders were accessing care through traditional healers, and a third had never been in contact with a health professional. “This constitutes the most up-to-date information on how common psychosis is locally, and such evidence is essential for evidence-based policy and service-planning to address these conditions,” the study said. The high-profile international study, funded by the UK Medical Research Council, was led by Professor Oye Gureje (UI) and Professor Craig Morgan, in collaboration with international partners at the University of the West Indies in Trinidad and the Schizophrenia Research Foundation in India. The researchers said they aim to uncover the risk factors that lead to psychosis in Oyo and explore the health needs of people suffering this disorder in order to develop better services and public health strategies. “This is an important attempt for us to know about this very serious and debilitating mental illness that predominantly starts in young age, thereby disrupting the completion of education, starting a career or establishing a life-long partnership. Often, especially at the onset, when the disturbing symptoms start, such as hearing of voices, the sufferer may consider ending their torment by taking their own life,” said Gureje. The novel study, called INTREPID II (INTernational REsearch Programme on Psychoses in Diverse settings), will also be conducted in sites in India and Trinidad. This will make it not only one of the largest studies of its kind, but also ground-breaking in its intention to understand psychosis on a global scale. The researchers said they are now investigating risk factors for psychosis, such as childhood trauma or cannabis use, as well as aiming to understand how the condition affects people’s lives, which factors support recovery, and assessing the physical health needs of people with psychosis. With one year of data collection recently completed, the researchers said the first results from INTREPID II will be released in summer 2020. This, they added, will take them one step closer to a truly global understanding of schizophrenia and other psychoses. Until now, most research on schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders had been conducted in high-income countries, leaving knowledge about these conditions in less endowed parts of the world (where 80 per cent of the global population resides) limited. This anomaly, the researchers said, would be corrected with the study in three different settings: Nigeria, India and Trinidad.