WHERE is 23-year-old Wuraola Bello, an accounting graduate from the University of Lagos  (UNILAG), who has not been seen since Thursday? This is the puzzle her family is asking the police to unravel since her disappearance on her way back from work at Ikeja. She lives in Gowon Estate near Egbeda in Lagos. Though her phone was tracked and the tracker indicated that  she is within the estate, she was not  located during a search by the police. According to her sister, Fadesola, Wuraola is  reserved and never goes out without telling the family of her destination. “I spoke with her around 7pm on Thursday. She works in Ikeja and she told me she was returning home. Then, when it was raining around 7:55pm, I called again. This time the phone rang, but she did not pick. So, I assumed it was the rain. “But we did not see her after the rain and the next time I tried her number, it said it was unavailable and later said switched off. “My sister does not have many friends. She never goes out without telling us where she is going. She never complained about anyone stalking her or any fears. “We stay with our parents and it has not been an easy period. We tracked her phone and it showed that the location was within the estate. But, we have searched and have not found her. “We have reported to the police and they are looking for her. We are pleading with Nigerians to join us in prayers and also assist us with any information that will lead to finding her,” Fadesola told our correspondent. The police have combed the area indicated by the tracker , including a nearby hotel, but she was not found. But 17-year-old Victoria Murray, a pupil of  Holy Child College, Ikoyi, Lagos, was  found on Saturday, five days after her abduction on her way to school.. Her father, Senan Murray, who heads the corporate communications unit of an oil firm,   took to his Facebook page to announce her rescue. He said: “My Vicky’s home! Just a quick thank you note for all your prayers and support. Thank you for all your calls. Thank you for standing with us. “Will share more details as soon as my hands stop shaking and my heart stops racing this fast.” Police spokesman Bala Elkana, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP), confirmed both stories, but declined to give details about Victoria’s rescue. He said the case would remain open until the abductors are arrested Elkana said investigation was ongoing in Wuraola’s case. 