Wydad Casablanca play maker Babatunde Michael said his dream to win the CAF Champions League is not over despite a 1-1 draw against Tunisian side Esperance last Saturday. Wydad Casablanca overcame having their captain sent off and two VAR referrals going against them to draw 1-1 with Esperance Tunis in the CAF Champions League final first leg. Both goals came from Ivorians with midfielder Fousseny Coulibaly giving the Tunisian outfit a 44th-minute lead in Rabat and centre-back Cheikh Comara equalising 11 minutes from time. Wydad and Esperance meet on Friday in the Tunis suburb of Rades to decide who wins the elite African club competition and becomes $2.5 million (about 2.2 mn euro) richer. “We can turn things around in Tunisia and we are ready to continue the fight for the trophy,” said Babatunde. “It was unfortunate that we conceded a goal as well as to see our captain been sent off, but in other ways, we were lucky to come back to the driving seat, so I believe we can beat them at home and that’s the dream. “Of course we could say they have advantage of away goal but football has gone beyond that mathematics, we are going Tunisia to win, to lift the trophy and come back to Morocco with the cup. Wydad Casablanca overcame having their captain sent off and two VAR referrals going against them to draw 1-1 with Esperance Tunis Saturday in the CAF Champions League final first leg. “Despite the sent off, we played to the last minutes of the encounter and we are going to repeat that fighting spirit in their own stadium. We have moved on from the 1-1 draw, we want to start afresh and be at advantage in Tunisia, we are motivated to restore back our winning spirit. Wydad are coached by 69-year-old Tunisian Faouzi Benzarti, who won the competition with Esperance in 1994, the first of his five successes in African club finals and Babatunde believes that the tactician experience in the competition over the years could be a major game changer on Friday. “He’s an experience coach, he has been orientating us on what to do on the pitch, he’s giving us the confidence that we can beat them at home and I equally believe we can do it in Tunisia.”