•Tertiary and other hospitals need adequate funding to perform and check medical tourism If only for the simple fact that those who drafted the coup speech that ushered in the regime of General Muhammadu Buhari on December 31, 1983, then made the state of our hospitals a cardinal issue for the coup, President Buhari has an abiding responsibility of fixing the hospitals and leaving them far better than he met them in 2015. It is a little over 35 years ago when the soldiers struck, and sacked the inept and corrupt Shagari government. The soldiers then described the public hospitals as ‘mere consulting clinics’. Regrettably, today, the hospitals are worse off, with many of the medical experts leaving the country in droves for greener pastures abroad. There are even fewer medical consultants in the hospitals today. Now, it is not just the general hospitals that are in crisis, even the tertiary ones are also shadows of their former state. Some of them have to be creative in reverse, by seeking donations, local and foreign, as well as the magnanimity of alumni of the institutions. The Chief Medical Director of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital (OAUTH), Ile-Ife, Prof Victor Adetiloye, said: “You may not have a perfect idea of what we are going through if you look at what we used to be and what we are now. We have recorded improvement not because we are well-funded but because of the resolve of the management to succeed. We have been surviving through donations from well-meaning Nigerians, alumni and foreign donors.” For an institution that spends about N5million  on diesel monthly, and incurs electricity bill of about N13million, the monthly N8million statutory allocation to it simply pales into insignificance more so when there are other bills to pick. The situation at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba, Lagos, is not different as it has had to cope with ever-increasing number of patients, schools, buildings, etc. not matched with a corresponding increase in statutory allocation.  The University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Enugu, like OAUTH and some other teaching hospitals, rely on donors from the United Kingdom, Italy, Sweden, among other countries. Instructively, most of the doctors who left for greener pastures and others on the queue waiting for the next available flight to Saudi Arabia and some western countries are eager to leave not only on account of poor remuneration but because the hospitals lack the necessary sophisticated facilities for treatment, even of some of the basic ailments. The CMD of UNTH,  Dr Christopher Amah, attested to this. Yet, some of these teaching hospitals, like the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan,  compared with some of the best in the world a few decades ago. Perhaps a way out of this problem is for the government to give a five or 10-year moratorium or emergency, during which officials responsible for the running of the hospitals should put them in order. Of course, this implies that  governments will also do their bit by releasing adequate funds to run and equip them. With regard to funding, where to begin is the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommendation of 15 per cent of annual budgets to the health sector. We have never come near this recommendation. Of course, we know that everything cannot be in place within the period because the rot in the sector did not set in, in one day. It therefore would take some time before some measure of success could be achieved. However, there should be a gradual ban on medical tourism for public servants. We agree with the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) President, Dr Francis Faduyile,  that: “If teaching hospitals are well funded, it will reduce medical tourism; once patients begin to get better service from the public facilities, there will be improved patronage and medical tourism out of the country will crash.” We can then make substantial foreign exchange savings from the N400billion that we spend on medical tourism annually for other developmental purposes.