Nigeria’s foremost visual art legend and printmaker, Professor Bruce Onobrakpeya is marking 60 years of his first art exhibition. It is a month long celebration in different locations in Nigeria by the art community. A National Merit Award Winner, Onobrakpeya has since become a living legend in the art circle, garnering local and international awards here and there. Edozie Udeze takes a look at the numerous artistic strides of this artist and a member of the popular Zaria Rebels of the 1960s and more. IN the past sixty years, Professor Bruce Onobrakpeya has been busy as an artist.  At the moment, he, alongside his numerous admirers, followers and friends are joining members of his family and the art community generally to celebrate sixty years of his first art exhibition.  This was in 1959.  At that time he was just fresh from the Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology, Zaria, where he, alongside his other members of the popular Zaria Rebel group studied Fine Arts.  Today Onobrakpeya has come a long way indeed.  He is today regarded as the most celebrated, most noted, most prolific and most versatile visual artist in Africa. The celebration is so big that some exhibitions have already been mounted in his honour.  At the Freedom Park, Lagos, presently, an exhibition of his works – old and new – are on display.  They are classical works of art to celebrate and honour an icon.  The works span over sixty years, years of various stages of art forms of one of Nigeria’s most consistent masters.  The works dwell on his different styles in the areas of prints, sculpture, paintings, mixed media of all sorts and more. Onobrakpeya is a printmaker, painter, sculptor and art instructor.  He is now considered one of the best known African artists, highly respected, revered and sought-after.  If there is any artist considered to be the foremost master of the contemporary art in Nigeria today, he rightly fits the bill.  At 85 he still strides the art arena with renewed vigour, very actively involved in studio productions.  One of the many reasons why the SMO Arts is opening a month exhibition in Lagos on 6th June to honour him, is to further espouse his global exploits.  He has exhibited in world’s most renowned art galleries.  He has been exhibited at the Tate Modern Gallery in London, National Museum of African Arts, Smithsonian Institutions, Washington DC and the Malmo Konsthall in Sweden, and more.  Based on his widely known styles of printmaking and painting and sculpting, he has been engaged to do many important installations in the world. Born in Agbarha-otor, Delta State in 1932, he is responsible for the renaissance in contemporary art in Nigeria.  In the early 1960s during his studies at the Nigerian College of Science, Arts and Technology, Zaria, Kaduna State, he was noted as the leader of the Zaria Rebels.  Yet Onobrakpeya said they were not rebels as such.  “We just wanted to tell the Europeans that we have our own arts and we must be allowed to explore them”.  It sounded like a big deal then.  But he and his mates who included Demas Nwoko, Uche Okeke, Yusuf Grillo, Osaeloka Osadebe and others stood their grounds.  They were allowed to do African arts based on African concepts, norms, for Africans have had their forms before colonialism eroded some of the people’s values.  Since then he has been able to change the face of Eurocentric’s art that otherwise would have bedeviled African arts in Nigeria. As at today, he has also successfully synthesized the vitality of African arts to have new aesthetics, with that indelible and strong African tradition.  He imbues and infuses the old into the modern to ensure that his art is ever evolving.  His house appears like a museum.  There is hardly any type of art work or piece in whatever form, style, or size that you can’t find in his home.  Truly, it has become a tourist sight both for the locale and for foreigners.  And Onobrakpeya is ever ready to welcome those who come to view or research into his works.  His home is an alcove of art with some standing, some placed in vital places or in the corners to showcase what they signify or symbolize.  This shows that he has dedicated his entire life to his oeuvre.  Notable exploits Onobrakpeya has invented and created special prints exclusive to him in the larger Nigerian society.  His works are heavily textured images which he borrows freely and extensively from tribal folklore, Christian iconography and ancestral rites.  For this and more, he is heavily documented within the art circles throughout the world.  Among some of his numerous accolades, he once got an award from Pope Paul VI for his outstanding painting of the Life of Saint Paul, the evangelist, the Apostle that wrote more than half of the New Testament of the Holy Bible. Even at the Vatican Museum in Rome, Italy, his works adorn the collections among world’s best.  His works anywhere and everywhere show class and distinction.  His deeper exposure in the area of art education has always aided his recourse to discover new concepts to deepen his works.  Soon after his stint at Zaria, he attended London University of Art where he obtained a certificate.  At home, he taught in different schools, worked in different organizations before he finally settled down to a full time studio works.  It was in 1979 in the USA that he was made an Associate Professor of Art while in residency at the Elizabeth City State University, North Carolina.  Ever since, he has developed more concepts of prints that transcend time, age and location. His most outstanding legacy here at home is his annual Agharha-otor Harmattan Workshop.  This he began in 1998 at his home town during which artists of both sexes gather there at his place to commune for months with their brushes, and paints.  This way he has groomed and trimmed so many young and old artists.  It is usually moments of artistic hibernation, deeper reflections and creativity enamoured by time to think arts; produce more works. Not only that he has consistently sustained this programme which artists look forward to yearly, he has also made it an annual pilgrimage of sorts to his native place of birth.  Now termed Bruce Onobrakpeya Foundation (BOF), many artists are usually taught the techniques of art installations, art and architecture, art and cultural history, often narrowing their gazes on the environmental degradation in the Niger Delta areas of Nigeria.  Art indeed can be used to expose the evils of societal needs and neglect, thereby currying for government sympathy and subsequent efforts to correct and ameliorate the situation. He has exhibited in virtually all countries of the world, where in most instances, he has demonstrated the ideal of local contents of Nigerian and African arts.  Even in Holland, the land of prints, when he exhibited his own prints in 1979, they saw in his works those strange but classical elements that further confounded them.  Yet, in all these, Onobrakpeya has remained humble, fatherly, gregarious, helpful and ever available in the art scene to render assistance, lead the way and mentor the younger ones.  Also in 2001, he participated in the Century City Art and culture exhibition in the Modern Metropolis – Tate Modern Gallery in London, UK.  There his works cut across many years of developmental strides of textured prints, installation art and more.  More so, in 2004 he organized and equally took part in Art and Democracy, an exhibition to mark the 5th anniversary of the Delta State government.  Those moments brought closer to the people the many sides of Onobrakpeya as an iconoclastic artist always on the move to discover new ideals.  Sixty years of exhibitions So the sixty years anniversary which will hold at the Wheatbaker Hotel, Onitolo, Ikoyi, Lagos on June 6th is to open people’s eyes to the depth of art of print-making, sculpture, paintings and those peculiar innovative pieces that have stood him out over the years.  The displays will focus on his achievements, awards, strides, as an artist.  For instance, today he is among the winners of Nigeria National Merit Award conferred on him by the Federal government.  This was in 2017.  This was for his immense contributions to arts in Nigeria, including his ability to found the famous Zaria Arts Society.  He has equally received the UNESCO’S Living Human Treasures Award in 2006.  When Sadam Hussein was alive, he also bestowed him with an art award, also the Fulbright Exchange award.  In 2010, the Federal government awarded him the Nigerian Prestigious Creative award only won earlier by Professor Chinua Achebe, the grand master of African Literature. These and more are the reasons this remarkable exhibition is titled Eni.  Eni means, You can Always see where the Elephant has passed by.  It will last till July 20th and it is time to see this quintessential elephant and colossus on the routes he has passed thus far. 