Twenty-nine scientists are set to find solution to erosion, droughts and desertification plaguing various parts of the country in this year’s Nigeria Prize for Science sponsored by Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG). The science prize first awarded in 2004 is worth $100,000. Details of the contest were revealed during the handover of the  entries to the prize’s Advisory Board signifying the beginning of the contest that will culminate in the announcement of a winner. Handing over the entries to the Advisory Board chaired by Professor Alfred Akpoveta Susu, in Lagos, NLNG’s Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Andy Odeh said: “The business of scientific innovation and research is not an easy task anywhere in the world. In Nigeria, it is even more difficult because of the paucity of research funds and the resulting increasing lack of interest.’’ He said NLNG will continue, through the Nigeria Prize for Science to find excellence even if it is to be found “in the darkest corner,” saying the gas giant is committed to changing the narrative of the nation through scientific prowess through which many nations have excelled. Odeh pointed out that though Climate Change remains a myth to  many people, its impact could be seen on the environment and agriculture. “We have all seen the growing rate of desertification in the northern part of our country,’’ he said. He continued: “Climate Change is real and that is why NLNG believes that solution to this threat can be engendered through a competition such as The Nigeria Prize for Science. The prize is another opportunity for NLNG to contribute to the development of the country. “The Nigeria Prize is open to all irrespective of nationality. What is common to all past and prospective winners, is the focus on solving Nigeria’s problems through scientific endeavours. It does not matter who finds solutions to the Nigerian problems. “All that counts is that it helps to build a better Nigeria, in line with the vision of Nigeria LNG.’’ The entries, which came in response to a call for entries published in the national dailies in February 2019, would be examined on their merits of excellence in advancing the frontiers of knowledge in or providing innovative solution to the issue of climate change in Nigeria. Susu said regardless of how large or small the number of entries is, the judging must hold and assured Nigerians that the Advisory Board will deliver their mandate based on integrity and excellence. He urged the judges to understand that “judging the prize goes beyond the prize itself. It is contributing to nation building and we must never compromise on excellence.”