Oyo State house of Assembly yesterday nullified the purported suspension of the Executive Chairman, Irepo Local Government Area, Mr. Asifu Adediran-Sulaiman and his deputy, Mrs. Ojedele Victoria. The Assembly, which described the suspension process as inconclusive, also noted that pending the time the House Committee on Local Government Affairs investigates and reports back to it, the suspended chairman and his deputy remains the constitutionally recognised leaders of the council and must be allowed to perform their duties. The council bosses were last week suspended by the council lawmakers, who accused him of gross misconduct, high-handedness and lack of respect for party supremacy. The suspension was conveyed in a letter dated April 25, detailing the allegations against the chairman for which he was allegedly found guilty. The letter was signed by seven out of the 10 lawmakers in the council. The disapproval by the House followed a letter written by the Irepo LG councillors to the state lawmakers notifying them as well as seeking their approval of the suspension of the chairman and his deputy. But, addressing reporters after yesterday’s plenary, the Assembly Speaker, Olagunju Ojo, urged the people of the council area to remain calm, noting that the House Committee has been mandated to handle the issue procedurally in line with the Assembly Law of 2001, which he accused the councillors of refusing to comply with. Buttressing the Speaker’s argument, the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Mr. Joshua Oyebamiji, added that the Assembly Law of 2001 on removal and or suspension of elected officials, especially chairmen, vice chairmen emphasises certain roles to be played by the councillors, the Chief Judge and even the House of Assembly, which were not followed as stipulated. He said: “So, the suspension is inconclusive because the other two tiers of government have not been involved. We punctuated an error and the committee on LG will look at the nitty gritty of the issues and if the procedures are to continue, the CJ and Assembly have to be involved. “So, they (the chairman and vice chairman) should go back to their offices until the committee reports back to the house. The elected chairmen are still the lawful officials.” The committee has one week to report back to the house. 