The Peoples Democratic Party Candidate for Ogun East Senatorial seat in the last National Assembly election, Engr. Deola Sosanwo, on Thursday, denied allegations that he has collected money from the All Progressives Congress(APC) and its Candidate, Senator Lekan Mustapha, to discontinue his Petition at the Tribunal where he is challenging the outcome of that election. Sosanwo said he remained resolute in his determination to reclaim the alleged stolen mandate and refused to be bribed or silenced in the face of brutality and evil machinations. The PDP Senatorial candidate, who made this known in a statement, lamented that some of his supporters have been conned into believing he had collected huge sums of money from his political opponent and party, to abandon the legal steps taken to address the injustice. He added that he has enough ground to challenge the decision of the returning officer for the senatorial district, Prof.Chris Nwuka, who publicly declared the election inconclusive only to return two days later to announce the APC Candidate, winner of the election with 84,924 votes. Sosanwo who polled 82,457 votes in the election, noted that when elections results are declared inconclusive, the best option is to order for a rerun or supplementary election to complete the aborted electioneering exercise. He expressed shock that the contrary was the case because the returning officer was abducted and gaged to incoherently and inaudibly declare Sen Lekan Mustapha winner. The Senatorial hopeful advised his supporters to remain calm as the matter is before the Election petition tribunal sitting in Abeokuta, saying the cynical moves of his opponent who in his crude characteristics, illegally hijacked peoples mandate freely given to him. According to him, his unconditional love for the good people of the Senatorial district and by extension the good people of Ogun state is the tenable reason he remained resolute with the pursuit of the mandate. He described INEC declaration of Mustapha, winner as a shame, charade and travesty and mockery of the evolving home grown democracy.