UNTIL religious organisations lose membership by half over failed prophecies or inept leadership of their leaders would political fanaticism wane. However, recent events have proved that social fanaticism which endears revelers especially to entertainers has no much space in politics. Wikipedia describes a fan, a fanatic, an aficionado or supporter as a person who is enthusiastically devoted to something or somebody, usually to a band, a sports team, a genre, a book, a movie or an entertainer. The Muhammadu Buhari’s and Donald Trump’s elections were pointers to the fact that if there was any crazy logic attached to celebrity fan base, it is foiled by politics, because it seems that when it comes to choosing their leaders, the choice of their cherished celebrity makes little or no difference. If the number of celebrity endorsements of a political candidate in Nigeria was anything to go by, former President Goodluck Jonathan could have won the 2015 election that returned President Muhammadu Buhari to power. Indeed, never had the entertainment industry been so divided with majority rooting for the former president. But the electorate separated a fantastic entertainer from who a good role model was. They went for the incumbent president despite the fact that he did not hide his disdain for corruption coupled with his ‘toughness’ as a former military leader. So much for Davido’s endorsement of his uncle, Adeleke. Americans did the same in 2016 when they shunned the numerous celebrity endorsements of Hillary Clinton and went all hog for Donald Trump despite his controversial, radical and undiplomatic nature. Never had America witnessed the kind of aggressive support for a candidate who could have made history as their first female president in a contest that brought her close contender so much hate, over campaign promises that were perceived to be capable of hindering freedom. The most prominent of the Clinton campaigners was Katy Perry, who went naked on the social media in a sort of sex appeal that is known to suffice as marketing tool. Katy has been stumping for Hillary since the primaries, trending with hashtags like #ImWithHer ball gown. And just after Trump’s “nasty woman” comment, she was one of the first celebs to order a shirt which she wore while campaigning for Hillary on a college campus. Katy even used Halloween as an excuse to make headlines for Hillary, undergoing a total transformation, with the help of professional makeup artists and prosthetics, just as she let Clinton use her hit song “Roar” in a final wave of powerful campaign adverts. Others celebrities who showed so much commitment to the Clinton cause include Taylor Swift, Chloë Grace Moretz, Lady Gaga, Kim Kardashian, Miley Cyrus and Beyonce. Perhaps the most unprecedented support for Hillary was the one from Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican and former California Governor who, in October made headlines when he publicly announced that he would not vote for Donald Trump. He said: “For the first time since I became a citizen in 1983, I will not vote for the Republican candidate for president. Like many Americans, I’ve been conflicted this election….But as proud as I am to label myself a Republican, there is one label I hold above all else — American. So I want to take a moment to remind my fellow Republicans that it is not only acceptable to choose your country over your party—it is your duty.” With Lady Gaga protesting outside Trump Tower after the election and Katy Perry speaking ‘revolution’, respondents think they are taking their emotions too far. “The problem with the so called celeb,” according to one of them, “is that 14 year old school girls who are the only people who are impressed by the likes of Lady Gaga and Katy Perry can’t vote. But Hillary Clinton couldn’t work that one out.” “Hopefully, this’ll end the rush for celebrity endorsement. Tiresome and detrimental,” another said who added: “All the celebrities in Hilary’s camp are only mortified because they feel their celeb status was very ineffective to the cause and are feeling worthless this morning as their egos are deflated.”