A 24-year-old woman yesterday told an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos, how she was allegedly drugged by her friend at a nightclub and gang-raped in a hotel in Lekki, Lagos. The woman, the first prosecution witness, testified in the trial of two dropouts of Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State, Don-Chima George, 25, and Olusegun Rasak, 28, charged with rape. Led in evidence by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Dr. Jide Martins, the witness said she was invited to Kabaal Night Club, Ikoyi, Lagos, by George, her friend. The witness, who testified for one and a half hours, said:  “Initially, I did not want to go, I was hesitant, I told Chima, but he insisted that I should come. He also said his birthday was a few days away and he wanted to celebrate it. “I agreed. That was not the first time we had gone out together as friends, so there was nothing out of the ordinary. He asked me to meet him at the De-Lankaster Hotel. We were supposed to leave from there to the club. “I got there because I knew where it was. Segun Razak was there in Chima’s room already; I waited a few minutes for everyone to get ready, and we left the hotel to go to the club. “We got there, nothing out of the ordinary happened. While at the club, at about 4am, I told Chima I was tired and wanted to go home.” She told the court that George gave her a glass of Hennessey and Coca cola to drink. She said the drink was the only one she had at the club before she dropped off George at the De-Lankaster Hotel. “I drove and Chima was in the car with me, and I had to drop him at the hotel. Segun Razak drove his car and had his friends in his car. We made a few stops at Automated Teller Machines to get some money for the Lekki Toll Gate. “From there, we proceeded to the hotel, when we got there, I proceeded to say hello to the other occupants of Segun’s car. “When I went into the reception area, I found a mutual friend of ours called Foluso; he was pretty drunk. Being the person that I am, I decided not to let him stay in the reception area. I helped him and took him up to Chima’s room. “I knocked on the door and I did not hear anyone answer, but I opened the door because the door was already open because the door was bad. “I got my friend inside the room and put him on the bed. After I got him on the bed, I kept talking to him to make sure he was okay. “While he was lying down, I was watching a movie on my phone and from that moment, I do not recollect anything because I passed out, which was out of the ordinary because I usually remember when I fall asleep,” she said. At that juncture, the witness broke down in tears, narrating how, in her subconscious state, she was allegedly gang-raped by George and Razak. She said: “My next recollection after passing out was being in a state that I wasn’t in ordinarily. I felt drunk but I knew I wasn’t because I did not drink enough to make me drunk. “I felt weak and I could feel hands grabbing me and I could also hear a voice in the room which I knew to be Chima’s voice and I felt Segun on top of me having sex with me. “I felt his (Segun’s) dreadlocks on my body because he had dreadlocks. I remember trying to push him off as he was touching me. He was touching my breasts and I could feel another pair of hands on my thighs. “I blacked out and came up again a second time and I could feel somebody fingering me. I knew I heard Chima’s voice and I couldn’t recall what he was saying, and I felt myself being penetrated again. I tried my best to say no. “I believe it was Chima who penetrated me again. I believe it was Chima because I heard him asking if I was awake after all of that; I blacked out again, and at that point, I knew both of them had had sex with me. “I was in a state where I was not conscious, but I had a sense that I could hear them. I woke up around 7am. When I woke up, I was confused and I was trying to recall what happened. “I did not consent to the penetration; I am 100 per cent sure. I am not in a relationship with both of them.” The witness said when she woke up, she confronted George, who denied any form of sexual relations between them. “I could feel sore in my private part; I knew that a sexual act had happened. When I woke up, Chima was in the room with me; he was sitting on a chair opposite the bed. He was on his phone. “I asked, `Chima what happened last night?’ He said, `Nothing’. By this time, Segun Razak was not present in the room. I asked the second time, and he said, `Nothing’. I asked him straight, `Did we have sex last night?’ “He said, ‘No’ and I told him: `If we didn’t, why is my underwear (panties) not on?’ He did not say anything. I started looking for my underwear. “I was thinking that this is my friend, he would not do that to me. I finally found my underwear under the duvet, I grabbed it, grabbed my wig and car keys and went downstairs,” she said. The witness said she left the hotel in tears, shock and confusion, and did not want to go home in her traumatised state. Justice Abiola Soladoye adjourned till June 13.