The Mosene Chieftaicy Family of Ikorodu has petitioned the Lagos State Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General, Mr Adeniji Kazeem, to wade into an act capable of causing a breach of the peace in Ikorodu orchestrated by a prominent family of the town over a parcel of land at Oju-Ogbe in the Ikorodu Local Government Area of Lagos State. In a petition signed by the solicitor to the Mosene Chieftaicy Family, Mr O. I. Sokunbi of Congnate Solicitors and Zita Agwunobi Chambers dated April 8, 2019, the family called on the Attorney General to prevail on the family to stop harassing members of the family with the police and thugs. Sokunbi stated that the land being situated at Oju-Ogbe along Beach Road, Ikorodu, Lagos State is the heritage of his client from their great ancestor being the first Mosene chieftain of Ikorodu from time immemorial to the exclusion of any other person, or family either within Ikorodu or outside Ikorodu and also free from any encumbrances. ”It is on record that our client’s ancestor granted some pieces of land to some families. There was never a time our client denies the fact of their ancestral grant of land to the families out of the parcel of land in dispute.” The solicitor further said: “One of the families benefiting from the kindness of our client’s ancestor later obtained a possession order from a court against another family which also benefited from the generosity of our client’s ancestor. That order is now being used against our client instead of using it against the family for which it is meant”. Consequent upon this development, the Mosene Chieftaicy Family called on the Lagos State Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General, Mr  Kazeem, to use his “honourable office in the interest of justice to prevail between the two parties to wait for the outcome of the court in suit no IKD/84/14 pending before Hon. Justice Ogungbesan of the Ikorodu High Court instead of harassing “our client here and there with the police and other extra judicial activities which include thugs and forceful entry on the land in dispute wherein our client has been in possession from time immemorial “