Leader of the Abuja North Stake region of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, President Ibeakalam Eric Mbibi, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari and others in leadership positions to involve more youths in government and offer them greater employment opportunities so as to stem the increasing insecurity and other anti-social vices in the country. He gave the admonition during the church’s 3rd annual conference in Abuja. Mbibi pointed out that idleness and joblessness have heightened the propensity of young ones particularly, to commit crimes against their fellow citizens. He charged the leaders to get closer to younger members of the society and maintain standards of integrity, accountability and honesty so that their followers would have more confidence in them and their ability to provide solutions to societal challenges. Noting that Nigerian political leaders have been unduly recycled over the years to the detriment of the youth, Mbibi underscored the frustration the younger generation must be feeling in seeing the same set of older generation leaders seizing the future from them today. “Political leaders have been elected as we voted them, results have been called and we have our leaders and representatives. For us in the church we continue to encourage them to be men of integrity who will do what they said they would do; so that the followers will have greater confidence in them. Government needs to understand the challenges of the people and address them. Even the Scriptures help us understand that an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. When they are idle, they will think of evil things to do; but being engaged by government by providing opportunities or creating skill acquisition to gain employment or create employment themselves will drastically reduce security challenges in the country. “The leaders also need to be closer to these young people, and break the barrier between them and the young ones. I remember as a young man in those days, there were some names we heard in government then. Those names are still very much in government today. You start wondering why they tell you that the youth are leaders of tomorrow. But you can’t see that tomorrow come because the same names are still turning up. So by the time the present leaders get the youth involved in the politics, government and leadership of the county, I think that will also help to address the security challenge.”