According to a report released by MultiChoice, at least 61.5% of Nigerian youth would rather watch the show that any other program is airing at the time. Additionally, at least 20.5% of the respondents also revealed they would rather watch popular Christian show, The Experience, while about 17.9% said they would rather watch the premier league. The report also revealed that about 70% of Big Brother Naija viewers love it for its solid entertainment credentials. The report was released at the Nigerian Entertainment Conference (NEC Live), 2019 edition. The event was attended by top players in the country, including MultiChoice Nigeria CEO, John Ugbe, EX BBNaija housemates and Media Personality, Ebuka Obi, to mention a few. Top Moments at BBNaija 2018 The BBNaija show promises unlimited entertainment and an unscripted twist of events with awesome surprises. From amazing relationships to fights, the show had some memorable moments. Here are some of the most memorable moments during the third season of the show last year, dubbed “Double Wahala”. ·         Bambam’s Eviction On 31st March, Bambam was announced by Ebuka Obi as the housemate to exit the house after their weekly party. Ebuka had promised to go with a special guest to the party, who turned out to be Delloite’s Representative, Steve. The eviction made Bambam the first contestant to leave the BBNaija house on a Saturday. ·         Evicted Housemates Return In An Epic Twist The third season allowed viewers to vote for their favorite evicted contestant to get back into the house for a second chance. The twist elicited various reactions on social media when it was announced, though some people embraced the idea of having their favorite housemates back on the show. However, Some considered the new development as being unfair to the other participants. This twist was of became first of its kind in Africa, though its nothing new to the world of reality shows. In fact, this twist has been present in over ten seasons of the show’s US and Canada versions. ·         Tobi and Cee-C’s First Kiss After begging for weeks with no success, Tobi finally got his first passionate kiss from Cee-C on the 16th day of the show. The pair shared a deep kiss in the storeroom as Lulu watched. The two shared a very controversial relationship, despite Cee-C being infamous for rejecting Tobi’s every advance at the beginning of the show. However, the pair started being estranged as days went by and the arguments escalated. Big Brother Naija 2019 Bringing Nigerians from all works of life, Big Brother Nigeria has received more attention than the top music festivals in Africa. This year, the organizers of this reality show teased their fans with their theme, “Forget Wahala”, promising great entertainment and epic twists. The show will officially commence later in May.