SIR: AS expected, the Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje finally Kano Emirate Council fragmented into five emirates of Kano, Bichi, Karaye, Rano and Gaya last week. The speed with which the governor created the additional emirates has stirred controversy and condemnation. Not only did the bill passed first, second and final readings within 72 hours, the governor would move speedily to give assent hours after despite the court order restraining him. At the presentation of their appointment letters on Saturday, the governor stated, “the creation of the new emirates has become imperative because it will hasten the growth and development of the state.” The poser is: how will the newly created emirates accelerate development? There exist different shades of opinions on why the governor created the additional emirates with first class emirs or chiefs. The dominant opinion is that the move was deliberately planned or orchestrated to whittle the influence of the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. One recalls that in 2017, during the Kaduna State Economic and Investment Forum, the emir reportedly condemned the proposed Kano State light rail lines project. The emir described the projects as waste of resources that could not add economic value to the state. Governor Ganduje, who was obviously displeased with the statement, soon after, launched investigation into the finances of the Kano Emirate Council. Also, during the re-run of the last gubernatorial election in the state, the emir was reported to have admonished politicians in Kano State to allow peace to reign and to accept the outcome of the election in good faith. Governor Ganduje who was apparently on the verge of losing the election must have felt that the emir’s statement was a direct attack on him and also an endorsement of opposition candidate. Historically, the Kano Emirate Council was once divided by the administration of late Abubakar Rimi. This was after the governor had misunderstanding with late emir, Ado Bayero and wanted to deal with him. The emirates would collapse like pack of cards after Rimi lost the election. If governor Ganduje is a good student of history, he should have tarried a while and resisted the intoxication of power. Power is indeed transient. From the economic point of view, the decision to create additional emirates is unwise. The good people of Kano State need functional schools, hospitals and other basic infrastructures. With the creation of new political emirates, the government must now cough out extra-budgetary allocation to build befitting palaces for these new emirs and other office paraphernalia. This will drain the lean resources meant for socio-economic development of the state.  Pambegua, Kaduna State.