The Kano State Police Command, within the last three weeks, has recorded not fewer than 33 rape cases, including unnatural offences. Twenty-five of such cases have been charged to court. The command said in a statement yesterday by spokesman DSP Abdullahi Haruna that eight cases were still under investigation, adding that eight suspected serial rapists were arrested over sexual assault. He said the police, during a raid on criminals’ hideouts and black spots across the state, nabbed over 25 suspects, all of whom have been charged to court. According to him, hard drugs including Tramadol tablets, Indian hemp, Diazepan, Codeine, Suck and Die, as well as dangerous weapons were recovered, including nine cartons of cutlasses, two sacks containing knives and other weapons. The spokesman listed the suspected rapists to include, Imrama of Kabuga quarters, Ishiaqu Amadu of Dawakin Tofa, Abubakar Hudu of Kachako village, Bashir Sale of Sharada quarters, Iliyasu Abubakar of Haye quarters, Ibrahim Isa of Yankaba quarters and Bashir Yayaha of Kabuga quarters. He said they were arrested and have confessed to have sexually assaulted their victims. Haruna said members of four notorious gang of armed of robbers terrorising Kano metropolis, following a tip-off, have been arrested and during investigation, Umoru Yahaya of Hotoro quarters, Nuhu Abdullahi of Zango, Dakata quarters, Abdullahi Dahiru and Adamu Mohammed, all from Kaduna, who were members of the syndicate, were nabbed. He listed the items recovered from the hideout of the  hoodlums to include, one pump action rifle, one Baretta English pistol, one locally made pistol, one English made pistol, seven rounds of nine MM live ammunition, 15 rounds of live cartridges and three sharp knives. Haruna said investigation is on to arrest the fleeing members of the syndicate. He said four suspected notorious car thieves, who specialised in unlocking any car door, have been arrested, adding that during investigation, four stolen motor vehicles were recovered from the suspects..   