In a few months’ time, exporters of agricultural products in Edo State and its environs would not need to bother about delays in travelling to Lagos for the purpose of taking their products to any part of the world. They would export their agro-products right from the Bénin Airport. Besides, businessmen, politicians and individuals can now land at the Bénin Airport any time of the day. This is because the airport has commenced night operations. In 2013, during the inauguration of the remodeled Bénin Airport, former Governor Adams Oshiomhole requested the then Minister of Aviation, Stella Oduah to ensure that the Airport operates in a 24-hour basis. Oshiomhole had argued that the 24-hour operation for the airport would enable individuals, especially himself, meet emergency engagement in Abuja. He regretted that the Benin Airport being one of the oldest in the country remained the way it was despite the increase in traffic. Oshiomhole’s successor, Godwin Obaseki has, however, seen to the realisation of his dream. Facilities in the 63-year-old Bénin Airport has been upgraded for it to carry out night operations. The equipment installed for the night operations were inaugurated last week by the Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika. The equipment inaugurated at the Airport included thunder and lightning system, Secure Aviation Data Information System (SADIS); Enhanced Simple Approach Lightening System, CAT ll and Instrument Landing System (ILS)/Distance Measuring Equipment (DME). Speaking at the inauguration, Senator Sirika said Edo people would gain a lot from the improved operational capability of the Bénin Airport because of the ability to come and go out of Bénin by air in reduced weather condition even when the pilot can barely see anything. Senator Sirika further explained that the equipment are both ground-based and satellite-based. He said the satellite-based equipment would begin work if the ground-based ones failed. He said: “The importance of the Benin culture and history is such that we cannot ignore. We will continue to upgrade facilities to meet its peers in other cities. The operational capacity of the Benin-City Airport has tremendously improved as we can now guarantee safe landing in reduced visibility and in bad weather condition. Aircraft can now land in Benin Airport at night. No more closure of the Airport by 6:00 p.m. “When the country was divided into regions, the centrality of Benin is very important. Benin is the cradle of history, tradition and culture. There is connection between aviation, culture, commerce and others. We are intertwined and we hold Benin in high esteem. We will continue to promote this city, to enhance this city and make people come here. The more people come to Benin, the better for commerce. “You have the Instrument Landing System which allows pilots to land in reduced weather. It is no longer pleasure to say from 6:00 p.m., you cannot land in Benin. We will continue to do more for Benin. We will site the agro-allied terminal at the Benin Airport. We are bringing cargo terminal for agro export. People involved in export of perishable items can send their goods to Europe very quickly. Obaseki has promised to participate in putting the structure for the facility in place. “Airplane owners must improve their aircraft. They have to train their pilots. If their pilots are not trained, they cannot come here.” On his part, an elated Governor Obaseki said the Bénin Airport could now compete with its peers across the world with the installation of the equipment and commencement of night landing facilities. He noted that people would have no excuse not to come to Bénin again whether at night on the excuses of bad weather. He said, “Edo is a hub. We are a transportation hub. Benin Airport is one of the top five airports in Nigeria in terms of passenger traffic. We do not want to wait for the Federal Government alone to provide all that are needed.. So, we have to put in our resources to support them to ensure that they are attracted to make investment in our airport. With the night landing facility put in place, we shall now persuade airlines to make night stops in Benin. That way, they bring traffic into our state. “We are inaugurating an array of things at the Airport. The benefits of all these facilities are limitless. What the cargo terminal means is that we can export our produce from here to all over the world. “For you to have economic growth, you must have infrastructure. People must be able to come in and go out. Money must come in and leave freely. This air transportation infrastructure will just complement our other efforts in area of tourism, agriculture, infrastructure even education. What it means is that there will be no excuse. It will help business once people know they can get in and out of Benin at any time. “We are not just unveiling a new technology for our airport; we are celebrating a very unique privilege and honour for a state to collaborate very closely with the Federal Government agency. The Benin Airport built in 1956 is being upgraded so that it can be ranked as an airport that could match any airport in the world by equipping it with the instrument every airport should have.