The Hollandia Evaporated Milk 120g packet also referred to as Pere has has been commended by consumers. At N100, Pere has endeared itself to millions of consumers across Nigeria for its creamy taste and value. Across neighbourhood shops and departmental stores, the pack has become  popular as more consumers consider it a favourite whenever they desire a creamy addition to their cup of tea, coffee, or meals. Among consumers who spoke was Mr. Oluseyi Adeniyi, a Brand Consultant with MarketingPlus. He said Hollandia Evap is a household name for its product quality, affordability and satisfaction. “The pack is  innovative and offers a good on-shelf presentation and delivers fresh appeal in addition to its creamy goodness. The pack’s increasing popularity is driven by consumer trends and desire for convenient portion size, more personal choice and affordability,” he said. For Ezekiel Usman, a student of the University of Ibadan, Hollandia Evap is a creamy and highly nutritious milk. He noted that as students, it was imperative to settle for value adding products that are pocket friendly, and the new “Pere” pack fits the bill for his daily use. “Each day, I always take a hot cup of coffee or a bowl of cerealcomplemented with Hollandia Evap because of its freshness, creamy goodness and vital nourishment. Now with the N100 “Pere” pack, I am glad I still get the same great taste, nutrition and satisfaction at an affordable price,” he added. Chi Limited’s Managing Director, Mr. Roy Deepanjan, expressed delight on the feedback received so far from consumers. He stressed that the Hollandia Evap 120g “Pere” pack size has captured consumer affection by being value maximising and innovative. “At the price point of N100, we were confident that the Hollandia Evap 120g “Pere” pack was good value for consumer spend when making purchasing decisions. The convenient portion size and affordability is driving affinity and growing popularity of the pack size amongst consumers desirous of wholesome nutritious milk,” he noted. The Hollandia Evaporated Milk 120g pack size joined the 190g and 60g pack sizes on the shelf, and is available in Departmental Stores, Markets and Neighbourhood kiosks across Nigeria.   