The federal government has vowed to complete the abandoned Onitsha -Awka end of the expressway before 2021. The federal government already has embarked on 21,000 capacity Housing Scheme along Awkuzu -Umunya communities on 236 hectares of land. The Minister of Works, Housing and Power, Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN, who was in Anambra to inspect the ongoing projects, said the government was determined to making the people happy The people of Oyi local government area comprising of five communities were in jubilant mood at the weekend over the projects by the federal government Four Kilometres out of the 18 had already been completed on the expressway, while the Minister also declared that the entire project would be completed on or before date The traditional rulers of Umunya, Nteje, Awkuzu, Nkwelle Ezunaka were on hand to receive the federal government’s delegation with pomp and pageantry. The atmosphere was charged with different traditional dances from the communities that make up Oyi local government area in the state, including the youth with placards singing praises of President Mohammadu Buhari and his All Progressive Congress APC. Fashola, who was represented by the Director, Highways in the Federal Ministry of Works, Engr. Yemi Oguntomiyi, said he was satisfied with the progress and quality of work on the road. He said during the last visit by the Minister on the road, the contractor promised that one lane of the road would be completed to lessen the hardships of the people, knowing the importance of the road not only to the region, but the entire country. Also speaking, the Anambra State Controller of Works, Engr. Adeyemo Ajani, said the contract was awarded in 2015, while the contractor moved to site in 2018. He said work had progressed well, adding that since the contractors were not lacking anything, it was possible that the work would be completed in record time. Meanwhile, the Minister used the forum to flag off the construction of Housing scheme embarked upon by the federal government at Umunya. The 236 hectares of land at the community was donated to the government in 1987, which would house 21,000 people when completed. The traditional ruler of Umunya, Igwe Chris Onyekwuluje, said Awkuzu and Umunya were happy, as the government’s presence was being felt in their areas.