The Nigerian Army has reorganised the operations of Exercise Harbin Kunama III to make it more effective in curtailing the activities of fleeing bandits, kidnappers and cattle-rustlers in the Northwest of the country. Addressing newsmen at the Army Headquarters yesterday in Abuja, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen Tukur Buratai, said the reorganisation was necessary considering the resurgence of bandits, kidnappers and other criminals in the zone. Lt-Gen Buratai, who lauded the governors of the Northwest for the support they gave the army and its personnel in the past few months, however, called on citizens within the zone to be patient with the military as they prepare to flush out the remnants of bandits and other criminals within the zone. The Army Chief who was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations, Major Gen. Lamid Adeosun, said: “I am delighted to be in your midst today for the Press Briefing on the re-organization of Exercise HARBIN KUNAMA III. “You may recall that Exercise HARBIN KUNAMA III was launched on 1 April, 2019 after the Chief of Army Staff’s press conference in Gusau, Zamfara State on 31 March, 2019. “I am pleased to inform you all that the exercise has so far achieved tremendous successes within the past one month. “Several bandits and criminal elements have been captured and killed while some camps, hideouts and equipment of the criminals have been destroyed. “It has however been observed that there appears to be a resurgence of their activities in other contiguous states to Zamfara. “This is occasioned by fleeing bandits that have resorted to attacking soft targets while relocating to other safe havens within contiguous states of Katsina and Sokoto. “Current threat assessments revealed the migration of the bandits from their epicentre to other areas in Kaduna, Kano and Niger states. “It is against this backdrop that Exercise HARBIN KUNAMA III is being re-organised and its mandate expanded to effectively ensure the complete defeat of the fleeing bandits”.