It was his 54th birthday celebration in Port Harcourt, but it provided immediate past Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi with the opportunity to share his belief about looting public funds among others, reports Bisi Olaniyi, Southsouth Bureau Chief A former Secretary to the Bayelsa State Government (SSG), Senator Felix Oboro, who chaired the 54th birthday celebration of ex-Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi at the highbrow Aztech Arcum Event Centre on Ken Saro-Wiwa (formerly Stadium) Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State on May 27, described the celebrator as a consistent politician. Oboro, who said he closely worked with Amaechi, a former Governor of Rivers state (2007-2015), in the old Rivers state, before Bayelsa state was created out of the old Rivers state on October 1, 1996 by the regime of the late Gen. Sani Abacha, also stated that he and the Ubima, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers-born politician (Amaechi) related very well, when Chief Rufus Ada-George and Dr. Peter Odili were Rivers governors. The ex-SSG (Oboro), a Bayelsan, noted that Amaechi, as the Speaker of Rivers State House of Assembly (1999-2007), Chairman of Forum of Speakers in Nigeria, Rivers Governor, the Chairman of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), the Director-General in 2015 and 2019 of the victorious Buhari/Osinbajo Presidential Campaign Organisation and Minister for Transportation, performed excellently. Oboro said: “Amaechi has been very consistent, loyal and dedicated to the just cause. He is a performer. Amaechi’s reappointment by President Muhammadu Buhari as the Director-General of his re-election campaign organisation is an indication that the President was satisfied with his impressive performance. “I am proud of Amaechi, a fair minded, detribalised, disciplined, humble and simple politician. He has helped many persons, irrespective of where they come from. Amaechi is trying his best to ensure the election of a riverine person as the Governor of Rivers State, to end the domination by the uplanders. Very soon, Rivers State will have a riverine person as governor. When it is the turn of Southsouth to produce Nigeria’s President, I am very sure that the people of the zone and other Nigerians will support Amaechi.” The chairman of the occasion also urged other Nigerians to always emulate the transportation minister, who is the leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state and the Southsouth zone, fondly called the Lion of the Niger Delta. The colourful event also had in attendance, Amaechi’s wife of 28 years, Dame Judith; a former Minister of Culture and Tourism, Alabo Tonye Graham-Douglas; Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, who was represented by Nkem Osuagwu: the 2019 governorship candidate of APC in Rivers, Pastor Tonye Cole, and his running mate, Chief Victor Giadom, who is now the Acting National Secretary of APC; the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside; and the 2019 governorship candidate of African Action Alliance (AAC) in Rivers, Biokpomabo Awara, an engineer. Senators Andrew Uchendu, Ovie Omo-Agege and Ifeanyi Araraume; the Acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Prof. Nelson Brambaifa: the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration (EDFA) of the Federal Government’s interventionist agency (NDDC), Dr. Chris Amadi; Rivers Chairman of APC, Ojukaye Flag-Amachree; and a former member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Dawari George, among other eminent personalities were also at the well-attended event. The Founder and Senior Pastor of Trinity House, Lagos, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, was the guest preacher, while other renowned clerics were also in attendance. Music was supplied by the iconic Prof. Laz Ekwueme, legendary Buchi, Joe Praise, Precious Omuku, Steve Crown and Magnificent Choir, among others, while the Masters of Ceremonies (MCs) included Julius Agwu, Basorge Tariah Jnr. and Amaechi’s “son” in secondary school, Dr. Michael Ogbolosingha, who is a former Mayor (Chairman) of Yenagoa Local Government Council of Bayelsa state. At the event, tagged: “Evening of Hymns and Songs,” had the Bishop of the Niger Delta North Diocese of the Anglican Communion, Bishop Wisdom Ihunwo, taking the opening prayer, shortly after the transportation minister got to the well-decorated arena at 4:41 p.m. on May 27, while the only Bible reading, from Psalm 145: 1-21, was taken by Dame Judith Amaechi. In the sermon, titled: “The Lessons of Life,” the guest preacher (Pastor Ituah Ighodalo), who quoted Psalm 90: 4-12, described life as a series of lessons that must be learnt, stressing that people must be willing to learn and they must be teachable. Pastor Ighodalo said: “Consistently fear the Lord and obey His instructions. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of Wisdom. Always study the word of God (Bible). Wicked, selfish and violent persons will not make it to heaven. “Nigeria is in need of great, selfless and outstanding leadership that will be concerned about the poor, for Nigeria to be great.” The cleric (Pastor Ighodalo) also prayed that God would give the transportation minister wisdom, understanding and he will not be put to shame. The President of the National Union of Nigerian Students, Danielson Bamidele Akpan, in his remarks, reiterated that Amaechi stood strong in the face of intimidation, while believing in the empowerment of young people. Akpan noted that the transportation minister had been supporting President Buhari to greatly reform the system, while praying that God would continue to strengthen him. Amaechi, while speaking before cutting his birthday cake, along with his wife, stated that there was the need for religious tolerance, considering a large number of his Muslim friends who honoured him at the event while hailing them and others for coming. He said: “One funny thing about my 54th birthday is that the people of my mother’s village also organised a thanksgiving service yesterday (May 26). I thank you all, including the Chief of the village. God bless all of you. My church in Abuja also organised a birthday thanksgiving service for me. I am very grateful. I thank my dear wife, who organised a birthday dinner for me. A group of people also organised a reading session in Lagos on my birthday. Many persons and groups also organised birthday activities for me. I thank you all. “I ought to be in a meeting in Abuja today (on May 27), but President Muhammadu Buhari said today is my birthday, I should travel to Port Harcourt for my birthday celebration. I thank him. He is a wonderful President. He is not a normal politician. Nothing to share (Federal Government’s fund). The money that should have been used to build roads, schools and to embark on other development projects, they were sharing it in the previous administration. Now, they are being called to accountability, but there are no roads, no schools, no power, no hospitals, among others, because the money was shared among themselves. “One sad thing about sharing of money for development projects is that some people feel that it is the best, but the people who get more from the looted fund are the people who bring out the money to be shared. When they steal $20 million, they give people around them $2,000 and keep the balance. Sharing is not the best. The best is what we are doing now, by embarking on people-oriented and capital-intensive projects.” The ex-transportation minister also reiterated that there was a time that Port Harcourt International Airport was described as the worst airport in the world, noting that the situation had changed for the better, with President Buhari recently inaugurating one of the best airports in Nigeria in Port Harcourt. He said: “So, Port Harcourt International Airport is no longer the worst airport in the world. Before May 29, 2015, there was no airport in Port Harcourt. The Federal Government of Nigeria, headed by President Buhari, is currently constructing the Bodo-Bonny Road in Rivers State, abandoned for many years. From N49 billion to N120 billion. It is a big project and the Federal Government is fully committed to delivering it on schedule. The destructive critics are still claiming that the APC’s administration of President Buhari has done nothing in Rivers State. You have now known who the liars are. “As at today (May 27) that I am speaking with you, we have just applied for a loan to do Port Harcourt-Warri railway, which is part of the coastal rail, to join the Itakpe-Warri rail. Another segment of the coastal rail is the Benin City to Onitsha. The Benin-Onitsha rail will join the Itakpe-Warri rail at Agbor. “The man who takes care of your welfare is your brother. You have a brother from Niger Delta, who does not care about you, and you have a Hausa man who cares for you. Then, who is your brother?” Amaechi also expressed displeasure on the insecurity in Rivers state, stressing that the gains of his administration in the area of safety of lives and property had been reversed. “In Rivers State now, people are being slaughtered every day. We no longer have enough policemen in Rivers State, because all the big men and women have taken almost all the policemen in the state. Night clubs are almost dead in Port Harcourt and its environs because all the big men who patronise them are stocked in their houses, because of insecurity, especially kidnapping, armed robbery, assassination and cultism. “Just watch out for population explosion, with husbands and their wives being forced to remain indoors for many months. Although, the wives are very happy that their husbands are now at home. The husbands are not at home, because they love their wives, but as a result of insecurity in Rivers State. If you stay with your wife for six months, if care is not taken, you will have a child. “As the Governor of Rivers State, I restored security, but the criminals that I chased away are now back. With my administration’s restoration of security, night clubs came back. As a governor, I went to night clubs, with minimal security. I also placed the emphasis on massive infrastructural development and I created employment opportunities for the teeming qualified people, including many non-indigenes, who are still happy with their jobs. “We will quickly round off this birthday celebration because I cannot guarantee your security after here (Aztech Arcum Event Centre). Some days ago in Ogoni (Rivers State), forty persons were killed. Just yesterday (May 26), some innocent persons were killed in Port Harcourt and one of them was beheaded.” The transportation minister also urged Nigerians to get united and pray more, stressing that during the March 23 and March 9, 2019 elections, the people did not pray enough, while reiterating that during the 2015 elections, everybody was fasting and praying, until God delivered Nigerians, admonishing the people to work much harder and pray more. He wished Nigerians the best and assured that President Buhari would do better in his second tenure than in the first term. Amaechi also thanked everybody that honoured him on his birthday, especially his colleagues in the Federal  Ministry of Transportation and particularly the Permanent Secretary. He disclosed that when many of his colleagues at the Federal Executive Council were complaining about their permanent secretaries, he was always telling them to leave his permanent secretary alone. The former Rivers governor (Amaechi) also expressed gratitude to the organisers and sponsors of the birthday bash, revealing that he did not put in a Kobo for the grand event. It is good to always celebrate persons who have positively impacted society, for the younger generations to be emulating their selfless services to the society and humanity, in order to move forward.