Seven commercial motorcycle operators arrested by Lagos State Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit for attacking its officers while on enforcement duties against motorcycles plying restricted routes around Oworonsoki, Adeniji Adele junction, Obalende, Falomo, Lekki Phase (1) and Ikoyi link-bridge area will be arraigned in court on Monday  for prosecution by the state government. According to a release from the task force, they were arrested over the weekend for attacking officers of the agency with stones, bottles and iron-rod while on legitimate mission to arrest motorcyle operators plying restricted routes. Chairman of the task force, Mr. Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police, disclosed that four officers of the Agency were seriously injured with stones, bottles and iron-rods around Lekki Phase (1). According to him, in the enforcement operations carried out around the areas 92 motorcycles were impounded for plying restricted routes including highways and bridges. “During the enforcement operations some suspected motorcyclists started shouting and calling the attention of their colleagues in their native language, thereafter other motorcycle operators from no where started throwing stones, bottles and iron-rods at my officers” Egbeyemi who enjoined other relevant stakeholders to support the Agency in curbing the ‘Okada’ menace said it was a rude shock seeing motorcycle operators now shuttling and struggling right of ways with motorists on Ikoyi link-bridge, Falomo, Lekki Phase 1, Adeniji Adele including Obalende. He stated that while two police officers were injured with heavy stones on their heads, two other paramilitary officers were attacked with broken bottles on their legs. “The government would no longer tolerate the slightest attack on officers and men of the Agency, as just recently a police  officer with the Agency died as a result of serious injuries he sustained from miscreants and hoodlums while on enforcement duty around Mile 12 area” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police Mr. Zubairu Muazu have condemned the attack and warned that the police under his watch will not tolerate criminal attacks and assault on its personnel or facilities. He however directed the Chairman of the  Lagos State Task Force CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi to immediately charged all those arrested to court for prosecution. However, all the arrested suspects will bearraigned in court as directed by the CP, to serve as deterrent to others who may want to act in like manners.  