With the United State now suspending the Dropbox Visa renewal for Nigerian applicants and announcing that every applicant must appear at the location they specified when applying for the visa renewal, this is what you need to know about the process and how to go about it. Types of the US Visas The US has two most common Non-immigrant Visas (Visitor Visas) for the United States are the Tourism (B-2) and Business (B-1) visas. For validity, the B-2 Visitor Visa allows the holder to stay in the United States for up to six months at a time. The validity of the visa is usually about two years. While for the B-1 Temporary Business Visitor, You may be eligible for a B-1 visa if you will be participating in business activities of a commercial or professional nature in the United States, including, but not limited to: Consulting with business associates, Travelling for a scientific, educational, professional or business convention, or a conference on specific dates, Settling an estate, Negotiating a contract, etc. So what’s the new rule now? According to the US in a statement, announcing the indefinite suspension of the Dropbox visa, said that if you want to renew your visa as a Nigerian, the “Dropbox” process would no longer apply, unless of course, you are a diplomatic or government official. The Statement read “Dropbox” is the fancy name given to the process of simply renewing your visa by sending your application via courier or DHL to the embassy, where it is then processed and a new one re-issued. “Effective at the close of business today, Tuesday, May 14, 2019, the US Mission to Nigeria is indefinitely suspending interview waivers for renewals, otherwise known as the ‘Dropbox’ process”, the US Embassy in Nigeria announced in a press statement. The statement further reads: “Visa applications will no longer be accepted by DHL in Nigeria. Those who have already submitted their passports via Dropbox to DHL for processing either at the US Embassy in Abuja or the Consulate General in Lagos, will not be impacted by this change. “All applicants in Nigeria seeking a non-immigrant visa to the United States must apply online and will be required to appear in person at the US Embassy in Abuja or US Consulate General in Lagos to submit their application for review. Applicants must appear at the location they specified when applying for the visa renewal. “Processing of diplomatic and official (A, G, and NATO class) visa applications will continue unchanged.” US Visa Requirements still remain the same Where to apply for a US Visa in Nigeria? Plot 1075 Diplomatic Drive, Central District Area, Abuja, Nigeria 2 Walter Carrington Crescent, Victoria Island, Nigeria