Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, has declared that his administration will remain a reference point in the history of the state despite losing in the last election. He made the declaration last week at the Public lecture and Fellowship Investiture organised by Society for Peace Studies and Practice (SPSP) at the University of Ibadan. The outgoing governor also emphasized that he was ready for probe should his successor, Seyi Makinde, choose to open the books of his administration. According to him, the massive infrastructural development, peace and security, investments in education and health, among others, will retain his administration as a reference point in the history of the state regardless of what anyone feels about him. Ajimobi, who reeled out the achievements of his administration, said they were anchored on a pyramid of development which included restoration, transformation and repositioning. He said that the pyramid of development gave birth to a new wave of developmental strides in education that led to the establishment of School’s Governing Board (SGB) among other programs. Ajimobi said: “When they get there, let them cancel all the contracts we have signed. Let them investigate us and if we have stolen, they should arrest us. “The SGB model led to a significant improvement in public schools students’ performance in public examinations. Today, we can boast of the best results in WASSCE in the last 18 years. “We have given our best to the state and we will continue to do this. The feats recorded by our administration placed Oyo as one of the five safest haven of investment in the country. “We are also the fourth investment friendly state in Nigeria according to the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS); with a four star rating for investment friendliness by the Nigerian Export Promotions Commission,” he said. The governor advised the incoming administration to approach governance with all strictness, especially in the course of maintaining the peaceful atmosphere that assisted in giving him the mandate he enjoyed from the people. 