The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has said the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, is attempting to bend the truth on the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). The nation’s umbrella labour union said the more he attempted to hide the truth, the more the truth would come out. Speaking with The Nation, NLC President Ayuba Wabba said the narrative the minister had been giving on the issue is false and unexpected of a public figure like him. The labour leader said this explained why he (minister) could not attend the May Day celebration, despite the invitation to him to do so. He said the nomination of Chief Frank Kokori was not from the labour but the result of his achievements and contributions to national development. Wabba said: “Ngige should know that he is a minister of labour and not a minister of his house. Labour is about people, labour is about managing the people and managing the unions. “We have said it clearly that all the narrative he is giving is false and such is not expected of a public figure like him. “I thank God because all I said on the issue at the May Day rally in Abuja was confirmed by the Vice-President (Prof Yemi Osinbajo), who attended the event. “I told the Vice-President that we never nominated Frank Kokori but he was nominated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwarts in Delta State, and the Vice-President said yes. “He confirmed that it was the committee, which also includes himself and the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). “So, Kokori got his appointment as a stalwart of the APC in Delta State. They actively forwarded his name. So, for the minister to go to the media and say we nominated Kokori is a false, and the Vice-President is around to confirm it.” The NLC president said of all the boards that were inaugurated some time ago, it was only the one headed by Kokori that the minister refused to inaugurate. He said the board was supposed to be inaugurated on July 28, 2018. He said it was the minister that sent Kokori’s name to the Department of State Services (DSS) for screening. “If Kokori is not appointed, why did he send his name? It was agreed that a board would be inaugurated on July 28, 2018. “In fact, the former Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mrs Odusote, was to chair the inauguration. Others were involved. But suddenly, the story changed; he refused to inaugurate it. “We are going to engage him fully because he has been the sole administrator of the fund. He has benefited and enjoyed the fund. So, he will not willingly relinquish the power,” he said. Also, in a statement by his media aide, Nwachukwu Obidiwe, the minister insisted that the NLC’s insistence on Kokori was to allow for corruption at the NSITF.