Despite being part of the national youth setups since 2012 when he came on stream to the Golden Eaglets, Luqman Gilmore has not been opportune to play for any of the national teams. The youngster who marked his 23rd anniversary on 10th May shares his pains and perseverance in a conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. His faith preaches patience and perseverance but no Nigerian upcoming footballer has probably displayed such rare candour in the face of adversity as much as Luqman Gilmore, the youngster currently attached with FC  Zugdidi in the Georgian Liga 3. Gilmorehas been part of all levels  of the national youth team set ups be it the Golden Eaglets Flying Eagles and Olympic Eagles yet he was not opportune to be so selected for any of these teams since he came on stream in 2012. Yet Gilmore would be the first to admit that he’s indeed a great disciple of Muhammad Hafez-e Shiraz , influential  Iranian and Persian poet who preached the art of patience and perseverance during his life time. “Patience and success are friends of each other, Success comes as a result of patience, Shirazi who died almost a Century ago reportedly said. “ One may wonder why as the causes of success ‘steadfastness and firm resolve’ is not discussed along with ‘work and effort’. It is so because there is a difference between the two. “ There are some people who do make efforts in the beginning, yet they break down when confronted with difficulties. “Looking from this angle, steadfastness and endurance should be regarded as the supports of work and effort. They must be considered as the motive forces assuring that the work continue unceasingly. Every triumph is not of the same kind. Sometimes it arrives early and sometimes it takes a long time,” he noted. It is as if Shirazi had a person of Gilmore calibre in mind when he penned that timeless epitaph and the youngster reckoned that his religious background has stood in good stead in the face of obvious challenges. “Not being able to make any of the national team’s squad to major international tournaments since 2012 has affected my career both positively and negatively,” Gilmore told The Nation. “In fact, I was about to sign my contract with Stoke City but I must play for national team so as to get work permit. “The management of Stoke City were so happy when I was invited to the national U-17 team where I did my best but not being able to make the squad for the 2013 U-17 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates affected my career negatively. “ It was one of  the most difficult times of my life but I am a Muslim and as a good Muslim  I believe in Gadri (destiny) so I take everything with faith; I believe I will have the  chance one day  to show Nigerians what I’m capable to do. “ My career has been with lots of disappointment. But I am lucky to have good family and great people around me who always tell me positive worlds and that has really  kept me going. “Despite all that I have gone through in my career, I feel very good and grateful to Almighty Allah (God) for his mercy and care over me, that alone keeps me motivated and happy.” Happily, Gilmore is on the move after  a long interregnum  without a club and was of the view that going to Georgia has indeed bolstered his confidence  and his belief. “ I moved  to Georgia in 2017  and this is  my third club,” explained the youngster .“When I first came to Georgia,  I started with a third division team  FC  Imereti Khoni  where I impressed so much. “It took me only four  months before  one of the biggest clubs in the country came looking for me and  I’m talking about  FC  Dinamo Tbilisi where  I eventually signed until end of the 2017/2018 season. “I didn’t get enough playing time in Dinamo and  had  to leave to join my current team FC Zugdidi so as to get regular playing time.” Like Shirazi suggested, Gilmore admitted that ‘one must not expect that everything would be done in the same manner and that everything will end in successes but he’s more than ever determined to succeed as a professional footballer. He said: “Football and my family are source of joy to me. “I’m usually sad when things are not going well with my football but my immediate plan is to keep growing as a player and as a person. “My long term aspiration is to play at the highest level possible and hopefully for the Super Eagles in the nearest future with a lot of players that we trained together at one time or the other in the Golden Eaglets, Flying Eagles and Olympic Eagles.” Stoke City as Gilmore is called far and wide can play as an offensive or defensive midfielder and he hinted on his innate qualities: “I look up to our national team captain John Obi Mikel and Ivorian Yaya Toure as my role models in Africa while Busquets and Xavi are  players that I like from  global level. “I can play in any position in the midfield and it is interesting that it was Coach Emmanuel Amuneke that actually called me from Stoke City because I came from Stoke City to the national U-17 team camp in 2002. “The name has stuck since then but it’s my prayers that Nigerians would hear more about me in the coming years,” noted Gilmore who marked his 23rd anniversary on 10th May.  