• Nigeria’s students’ vulnerability to drugs A recent claim that students in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions represented an increasing percentage of drug abusers is a worrying reminder of the country’s inability to come to grips with a truly devastating scourge. Professor Jonathan Ogunwole, Vice-Chancellor of Bowen University, Iwo,  Osun State, stated that “virtually every university, polytechnic and other higher institutions in Nigeria … is battling with drug and substance abuse either quietly or openly.” Noting that the practice was capable of destroying lives and ruining careers, he said that Bowen would continue to maintain its zero-tolerance policies against drug use of any kind, in spite of increasing pleas for clemency from some quarters. Ogunwole’s thesis is largely correct. In its 2018 Survey Report, the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS) estimated that in 2017, 14.4 per cent or 14.3 million citizens aged between 15 and 64 years of age used drugs. This is disturbingly high when it is compared to the 2016 global drug use estimate of 5.6 per cent in adults. One in every four drug users in Nigeria is female. Cannabis is the most commonly-abused drug, followed by the non-medical use of opioids, tranquilizers and cough syrups. The south-east, south-west and south-south geopolitical zones witnessed the highest prevalence of drug use, ranging between 13.8 per cent and 22.4 per cent of the population, compared to northern Nigeria which ranged between 10 per cent and 14.9 per cent. Even though the NBS report states that drug use in 2017 was most common in citizens aged between 25 and 39 years of age, there can be little doubt that students in tertiary institutions have become an increasingly significant demographic. Tertiary institutions are the places where the country’s youth can be found at their most concentrated. It is there that they are subject to overwhelming peer-pressure, tempted by a wide variety of drugs and encouraged by a popular culture in which drug use is openly encouraged and blatantly celebrated. Unlike the past when drug use was characterised by secrecy and shame, it is not uncommon to see students openly indulging themselves in bars and restaurants, at musical concerts, sports meetings, parties and television-viewing centres. A sinister trade in selling drugs has grown exponentially alongside increased drug use in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions, facilitated by secret cult groups, internet fraudsters and other criminal gangs. The consequences of this lamentable situation are alarming. Quite apart from the negative impact on studies, relationships and productivity, drug users are often vulnerable to a host of health problems, especially sexually-transmitted infections stemming from risky sexual behaviour, and psychological issues. Since the country’s tertiary institutions are on the frontline of the campaign against drug abuse, they will have to scale up the comprehensiveness of their response to the problem. In this regard, it is not enough to proffer short speeches about the dangers of drug abuse at orientation ceremonies without follow-up action. All institutions must have effective counselling units run by experienced professionals able to offer cogent advice to students. A continuous process of enlightenment should be put in place consisting of talks, films and visits to drug-rehabilitation facilities. There should be greater enforcement of regulations against drug use and sale; increased collaboration with the police and other security agencies may be necessary to clamp down on the criminal gangs operating on campuses. Ultimately, however, what is most required is a change in prevailing attitudes. The blatant celebration of drug use and abuse in popular culture must be consistently discouraged. As a country with a host of development issues, Nigeria cannot afford to be seduced by the western world’s increasing drift towards the decriminalisation of recreational drugs; what is good for them is not necessarily good for everyone.