The Lagos State Infrastructure Asset Management Agency (LASIAMA) has advocated a better and sustainable maintenance culture. It did this with the launch of ‘Lagos State is Maintenance Cultured’ initiative yesterday, to commemorate the 2019 World Facility Management Day, The initiative, aimed at improving the maintenance of government-owned facilities across the 20 local governments and 37 local council development areas, will be overseen by highly trained personnel of the agency at different locations. Speaking at the launch in Alausa, Ikeja, General Manager Oladeji Williams said the initiative was part of the government’s plans to build capacity, create jobs and ensure the sustainability of government’s facilities within and beyond the state. Williams, who expressed optimism about the initiative, said LASIAMA had employed methodologies of global standards to ensure the direct impact of the initiative on government facilities. He said: “The vision is to establish a tradition of maintenance and champion the benefits of good maintenance practices across Lagos.” Restating government’s resolve to holistic and aggressive approach in ensuring a better maintenance culture, Williams appealed to the residents and stakeholders to support the initiative. The President, International Facility Management Association, Nigeria chapter, Mrs. Abimbola Olusegun, said the World International Facility Management Day was set aside to recognise professionals who had worked to ensure that the global built environment was effective, productive, sustainable, safe and healthy. “This international celebration has brought to the limelight, the behind-the-scene heroes who have played a vital role in the development of global facility management standards in the world,” she added. Mrs. Olusegun hailed the initiative as a good development, being the first state with an agency dedicated to infrastructure management and maintenance. The Director, Lagos State DNA & Forensic Centre (LSD&FC), Dr. Richard Somiari, said cultivating maintenance culture goes beyond cleaning of facilities, adding that it covers the environmental health and safety, maintenance of facilities, testing and inspection, operations and space allocation and changes of organisation facilities. He said facility management entailed efficient and effective delivery of support services for an organisation that was served, hence management of facilities and infrastructure was to be tailored to each organisation’s needs.