The human body acts like a perfect machine. In a machine, if you put in a raw material, it gets processed by the machine and you get a product. Your product may turn out as energy. There may be some waste product too. We, as humans, behave in the same way as living beings. Our food is the raw material that our body needs. The ultimate product that we want is the energy to function. The one we don’t want is our sweat and the one that goes through the toilet/bathroom: the waste products. Further, we get our body make-up from our parents. Therefore, what we are and our future is determined by what our parents have eaten (including illegal drugs and alcohol) or what the parents failed to eat. Our future is already decided even before we are born. As a child and an adult, the way we behave, what we look like, our shape and health all depends on the food we take or the food that we did not take as mentioned above. Low energy is one of the consequences of unreasonable nutrition or poor meal intake. If we fail to eat the right amount that our body needs, we may not have enough energy to see us through our daily needs. An average male adult weighing 70kg requires about 2500 calories per day. An average woman adult requires about 2000 calories. Children and elderly require much less. If we fail to take the right amount of food, the body will start “eating” up itself and the person may lose a lot of weight and then die. On this account, we need qualified medical doctors, nurses and nutritionists to help us determine the amount of food and energy that we need. Because a person fails to take the right thing that is found in food or if the food gets polluted, it will harm the body. The person may therefore fall ill. For example, a person who failed to take enough protein will be predisposed to malnutrition and vulnerable to a lot of preventable diseases. Also, if our food is lacking in some vitamins, the person may even become unwell physically (say scurvy) or mentally. Very serious illnesses like cancers, hypertension, Parkinson’s, dementia and mental illness may develop because of what we failed to eat or what we actually eat. Common natural foods contain majority of what we require for our needs. Clean and well prepared, (not necessarily processed in factory) fruits, vegetable, meat (not red meat which should be avoided), fish and water in the right proportion will most certainly sustain us on daily basis. This is a common sense in fact. We don’t need factory food, fast food or processed food to survive. This is important as these foods contain a lot of chemicals and amount of substances that we don’t need. They contain preservatives and salt that is too much for our body. Too much food; if we eat too much food, it means we have taken too much energy in and of course, “excess of the earth” more that we require. The excess energy needs to be spent in exercise. Otherwise, the excess weight will ultimately drag us “down to earth” via many diseases (obesity, diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure and stroke). Where is the scientific evidence? The evidence in support of what we have mentioned above is staggering. Here they are. (1) Soft drink: In many studies (88 different studies), the association between soft drink consumption and nutrition and health outcomes were examined. It was found that there is a clear association of soft drink intake with increased energy intake and body weight. Soft drink intake also was associated with lower intakes of milk, calcium, and other nutrients and with an increased risk of several medical problems (for example, diabetes); (2) Before and after birth: The children of women who have low pre-pregnant (before becoming pregnant)  weight, poor diet, low level of replacement of the home diet by the supplement, low physical activity during pregnancy and good health status will show larger increase in birth weight when their food and calories is increased. Finally, nutritional interventions during pregnancy as opposed to earlier in the life of the mother should have the higher impact on birth weight. In consequence, interventions as of pregnancy are recommended; (3) Child survival: From the data reviewed in research reports, it is clear that nutrition of mothers is intimately intertwined with infant health and survival. Thus, the problem of maternal malnutrition during pregnancy and during breast feeding presents a potentially and very serious obstacle to social development. If you have any question or clarification on this article, please contact me: Tel: 07087733114 or website: www.the-hospitals.com. 