•Failure to audit the fund’s account for seven years signifies failure of government The Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) is meant to provide succour to employees who might get involved in workplace accidents, sustain injuries and similar distress. Wholly owned by the Federal Government, the fund gives effect to provisions under the Employees Compensation Act. However, the hopes of many who may be looking up to the mega specialised insurance firm for support is dangling as an investigation panel has indicted the past board and management of the fund of mishandling N48 billion of the N62 billion remitted to it by the public and private sector companies, parastatals and organisations, since 2012. This, the government has attributed to poor governance methods and procedures that necessitated the dissolution of the former board, sack of the managing director and three executive directors. Failure to audit the fund’s accounts for seven years is an indictment of the supervising ministry and all those saddled with providing guidance and leadership for all government-owned institutions. It is unfortunate that the process of investigating, indicting, dissolving the former board and constituting a new one had to take this government as long as three years. The sloppiness that attended the inauguration of the new board is an indication that government has not fully appreciated the need for putting up a proper structure for the fund. We hope that the inauguration, last week, would mark a new beginning, especially against the backdrop of the face-off between organised labour and the Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige, over the chairmanship of the NSITF board. Labour had claimed that  Chief Frank Kokori, a veteran labour leader who stuck out his neck to fight for the country during the struggle to send the military packing from government was given a rough treatment in the process of appointing a new chairman for the board. But, contrary to labour’s claim, the government said there was never a time it named Chief Kokori as chairman of the NSITF. Although the clarification came so late, it said the Prince Austin Enajemo-Isire-led board that was eventually inaugurated was picked because of Enajemo-Isire’s wealth of experience, to sanitise the place. A face-saving appointment of Chief Kokori as chairman of the Michael Imoudu Institute of Labour Studies could not soothe the pain caused the labour leader and the Nigerian workers who felt insulted by what they saw as indignity Chief Kokori suffered in the process. We call on the Federal Government to be more thorough in performing its functions. While we acknowledge the professional pedigree of Prince Enajemo-Isire that makes him suitable for the appointment at a point the rot by the previous board left must be cleared, we find it difficult to accept that a board chairman would be so involved in the daily running of the organisation when he is not appointed as the chief executive. Henceforth, the accounts of all government ministries, departments and agencies must be audited annually. Boards and management committees of defaulting bodies should be promptly sanctioned. In the instant case, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) should ensure that those involved are not just prosecuted, the public should be regularly briefed on developments on the matter. At a time Nigeria is faced with acute economic crisis, the point must resonate that it can no longer be business as usual. Public assets must be entrusted to only those worthy of the trust.