The Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), manager of Nigeria’s Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF), has in its 2018 results, posted N44.34 billion income and 16 per cent growth in total assets to N617.7 billion. The figure raises hope for more infrastructure funding and support for key sectors of the economy, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Infrastructure funding and building of savings base for the economy are crucial in achieving sustained economic growth . That explans why the Federal Government, set up the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) to help boost savings and bridge infrastruture gap. The NSIA was  established by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (Establishment, among others) Act 2011 to manage funds in excess of budgeted oil revenue and promote infrastructure development. The Managing Director of NSIA, Uche Orji, said the NSIA Act mandates the organisation to run three ring-fenced funds – stabilisation fund, future generations fund, and Nigeria infrastructure fund with asset allocation of 20:30:50 respectively. In 2018, NSIA’s income rose to N44.34 billion,  giving it room to fund more developmental projectss. Analysts said that such performance in a year when many international markets under-performed and the global economy experienced a moderate pace of expansion, raises hope for economic growth. Highlights of NSIA’s activities and performance during the period shows that total comprehensive income (including the impact of foreign exchange gains) of N44.34 billion as against N27.93 billion the previous year. It achived total comprehensive income of N26.29 billion while total assets grew by 16 per cent to N617.70 billion. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) on the core funds showed that  Stabilisation Fund (100 per cent Funds deployment); Future Generations Fund (81 per cent fund deployment) and Nigeria Infrastructure Fund (17 per cent fund deployment). Data from NSIA showed there were increased focus on domestic infrastructure projects specifically in agriculture, healthcare, and infrastructure enabling financial institutions. For instance, on healthcare, the company  reached financial close on three projects including a Cancer Centre at Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and Advanced Diagnostic Centres at Federal Medical Centre Umuahia (FMCU) and Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH). It also commissioned the LUTH cancer Centre which will soon be fully open for clinical operations. The Presidential Fertiliser Initiative, showed that increased output with approximately 12 million bags produced to date with a total of 18 blending plants participating. Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) attracted $650 million and commenced capital deployment across three of the major road projects: second Niger Bridge, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and Abuja-Zaria-Kaduna-Kano Road. The joint venture of NSIA and UFF reached financial close on Project Novum, a fully integrated farm located on 3,500 hectares of land in Panda, Nasarawa State. The  NSIA having created InfraCredit, attracted other investors to the company and de-recognized it from the book. The Commodities Exchange (NCX) showed that progress has been made and the agency is in the process of choosing a strategic partner. There was also Investment in Basic Chemicals with OCP Morocco: Basic Chemical Platform to produce ammonia and other fertilizer products.  Assets under management NSIA has core capital of $1.5 billion while other third party managed funds comprised of PIDF – $650 million; Debt Management Office – $122.60 million ($120.95 – Fair value 31 Dec 2017); Nigeria Stabilization Fund – N13.64 billion. There is also gross sum of $417.46 million ($350 million principal plus returns) repaid to the Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading Company Plc following the expiration of the four-year investment term. The global market in 2018 experienced high volatility, however 2019 is expected to return to a relatively stable terrain. According to JP Morgan, there is a deceleration in growth momentum which is expected to end by midyear 2018 on account of policy changes that supports China easing and the Federal Reserve pausing. There are no apparent expectations of recession risks in 2019.  However, the Authority continues to monitor the market conditions with the view to leverage the upside risks that avail themselves in the market. We expect that our strategy will continue to deliver positive returns.  Financial statement review The Authority’s performance for 2018 reflected the strength of the Authority’s strategy across all the funds as the Authority aggregate performance outstripped most global market indicators in the period. Equity market experienced a dramatic decline in the last quarter of 2018 as Investors were burdened with rising US central bank interest rates, lower than expected growth in Asian market particularly China and other political issues including Brexit, Eurozone and the China-US trade conflict, characteristically fueled Investor apathy for most of the year. However, in spite of these market challenges, the Authority’s fund performed favorably by generating aggregate returns of 8.2 per cent. Total income grew by 88.5 per cent, rising from N30.62 billion in 2017 to N57.73 billion in 2018.  Considering the volatile global and generally challenging local investment environment, this performance reflects the strength and capability of Portfolio and risk management within the institution. Interest income – N23.82 billion (a component of Total income) earned in 2018 represents a nine per cent year-on-year increase from the N21.77 billion in 2017.  This underscores our commitment to generate fixed income returns from low-risk securities that generate predictable interest, and steady returns including Eurobonds, Treasury bills and other secured deposits. The Authority rebased its foreign denominated balances to N325/$ from N305/$, to reflect its foreign exchange transactions appropriately in line with its market. Therefore, the Group recognized a foreign exchange gain of N18.05 billion. Within the year, the Authority committed significant capital across all three ring-fenced funds and gained traction within the Nigeria Infrastructure Fund (NIF) as commitments were being made on approved project/investment opportunities. With respect to the other funds, the Authority continued to operate a diverse and global investment portfolio of traditional and alternative assets. The year was an eventful year with significant capital deployment in the priority sectors of Agriculture, Healthcare, Motorways and Power. Highlight of activities undertaken across the infrastructure sectors are provided below:  Agriculture The agriculture sector remains a focus area to the Authority. Key programmes undertaken by the Authority within the period under review included: Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI). Continuing its role as programme manager, the NSIA sustained the implementation plans for the PFI. As at year end, an addition 5.5 million bags of NPK 20:10:10 fertilizer had been produced and sold in Nigeria bringing the total project output from inception to date at over 12 million bags. Furthermore, two additional blending plants were accredited in Kaduna and Zamfara respectively bringing the number of plants to 18 in total. With PFI, NSIA is helping to reduce input induced food price inflation. Novum Agric Industries Ltd : Under the UFF-NAIC Fund ($200 million 50-50 co-sponsored agriculture fund with UFF Agric Fund), NSIA acquired a fully integrated farm located in Panda, Nasarawa State. Development of the farm land has commenced. The Authority expect to start farming activities in late 2019 with the completion of irrigation facilities expected to be finalized in second half of 2019. Following NSIA’s appointment as the programme manager of the PIDF, the Authority received the sum of $650 million from the National Economic Council. Funds have already been disbursed for construction works on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway,  Second Niger Bridge; and Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano Road. To date, NSIA has disbursed N77.6 billion under the PIDF programme. Other projects being undertaken under PIDF include Mambilla Hydro-Power Project and East West Road.  Healthcare NSIA reach advanced stages in the implementation of three healthcare projects in the year. The first is the NSIA – LUTH Cancer Centre which is structured under a public-private partnership (PPP) arrangement between the NSIA and the LUTH. The project was for the rehabilitation, equipping and operation of an existing cancer centre co-located in LUTH. The centre was subsequently commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari in early 2019. The centre will provide advanced radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatment services.