HotSports Media Group, Nigeria’s foremost marketing and Production Company, has formalised its relationship with Africa’s largest television network, the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Network, as the Official Exclusive Marketers of the 32nd African Cup of Nations which kicks off in Cairo on June 21. NTA will broadcast the matches on terrestrial television channels across Nigeria, while the Super Eagles will be among 24 teams contesting to lift the trophy on July 19 in the showpiece game. Other tournaments in the bouquet of the NTA/HotSports marketing partnership include the U23 Africa Cup of Nations (the 2020 Olympics soccer qualifiers that will be hosted by Egypt in November, this year), Africa Women Cup of Nations (Congo Brazzaville 2020), U20 Africa Cup of Nations in 2021 in Mauritania, the U17 Africa Cup of Nations in Morocco also in 2021 and CAF Super Cup 2020. At the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding MoU between NTA and HotSports in Abuja during the week, NTA Director General, Yakubu Ibn Mohammed assured that his organisation would deploy its immense experience in the coverage and broadcast of international sports competitions to AFCON 2019 and the other tournaments in view and it is determined to deliver exciting moments for Nigerian sports fans through the partnership with HotSports. “NTA had always been known to be the front runner when it comes to the coverage of international sporting activities. NTA has covered various World Cups and has been involved in the coverage of the Olympic Games, African Cup of Nations, and age-grade competitions. This management of NTA is determined to bring back the good old days because NTA pioneered sports casting in this country and we should always be in the lead,” he stated. Ibn Mohammed dwelled on the significance of AFCON 2019 and why corporate organisations would derive huge marketing benefits from sponsorship: “As far as the 32nd African Cup of Nation is concerned, it is significant for Nigeria because this is the first time the competition is would feature 24 teams instead of the normal 16. Nigeria is participating for the first time in four years, so NTA feels it has a responsibility to beam the matches to the homes of Nigerians and viewing centres across the country. There will be 52 matches because of the extended number of teams, each of which will deliver the desired eyeballs for sponsors.