President Muhammadu Buhari, the Senate and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) were not in court yesterday over a suit querying the choice of Justice Ibrahim Muhammad as the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on May 3, ordered respondents in the suit to show cause why reliefs contained an ex-parte motion by the plaintiff should not be granted. The plaintiff – the Board of Trustees (BoT) of Malcom Omirhobo Foundation – had sought “an order of interim injunction restraining the fifth defendant (Buhari) from appointing the third defendant (Justice Muhammad) as the CJN of the Federal Republic of Nigeria pending the determination of the motion on notice filed herein”. It also sought “an order of interim injunction restraining the seventh defendant (the Senate) from confirming the appointment of the third defendant as the Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria pending the determination of the motion on notice”. The defendants in the suit are: the National Judicial Council (NJC), Federal Judicial Service Commission of Nigeria (FJSCN), Justice Muhammad, Federal Republic of Nigeria (FRN), President Buhari, the AGF and the Senate. Only three of the defendants – the NJC, FJSCN and Justice Muhammad – were represented yesterday by lawyers. The NJC was represented by Elizabeth Jonathan, while Sani Sule announced appearance for the FJSC. The plaintiff’s lawyer, Malcom Omirhobo, admitted that Justice Muhammad was yet to be served with the processes and the order made by the court on May 3. Omirhobo said other defendants had been served. He withdrew the motion he filed for leave to served Justice Muhammed through substituted means when Ajana agreed to accept service for his client. When Justice Ekwo indicated that he intended to hear the case promptly, the plaintiff’s lawyer equally withdrew the motion on notice he filed for an order restraining the defendants from appointing Justice Muhammad in substantive capacity. The judge then gave the defendants 14 days to respond to the substantive suit and adjourned hearing till June 3. Justice Ekwo ordered that hearing notices be issued and served on parties that were not in court yesterday. The plaintiff, in the substantive suit, is praying the court to restrain President Buhari from appointing Justice Muhammad as the substantive CJN. The plaintiff contended that the Acting CJN conducted himself in a manner that reduced the confidence of the public in the integrity and impartiality of the Judiciary. It argued that President Buhari lacked the constitutional powers to unilaterally suspend and/or remove a CJN from office, as was done in the case of Justice Walter Onnoghen. The plaintiff is praying the court to declare that by combined interpretation of sections 1(1)(2), 231(4), 292(1)(a)(i)(b), 153(1)(i), 158(1) and Paragraph 21 (a)(b) of Part 1 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, “it is unlawful and undemocratic for the fourth and fifth defendants (Federal Government and President Buhari) to declare the office of the CJN vacant on January 25, 2019 and consequently appoint and swear in the third Defendant as the acting CJN”. It also wants to restrain the National Assembly from confirming Justice Muhammad’s appointment as the substantive CJN. It is praying the court to declare that Justice Muhammad, who is the most senior jurist at the Supreme Court, is unfit to replace the sacked CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen. The plaintiff wants the court to declare that Justice Muhammad, having made himself available as a tool for the violation of the Constitution, especially with regards to the “illegal” removal of the former CJN, is therefore not a proper and fit person to be recommended for appointment to head the judiciary.