The newly inaugurated governor of Yobe State Mai Mala Buni and his deputy Hon. Idi Barde Gubana have both complied with the provisions of the law in the code of conduct Bureau to declare their assets. Our correspondent who visited the Code of Conduct office at the Federal Secretariat Damaturu exclusively discovered that both the former governor Ibrahim Gaidam and his deputy Engr. Abubakar Aliyu have also declared their assets as expected by the law. the information available indicated that the asset declaration forms of both Gov. Mai Mala Buni and his Deputy, Idi Barde Gubana, as well as that of former Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam and his deputy Engr. Abubakar Aliyu has been duly signed by the National Commissioner with their acknowledgement slips equally issued back to them. Though details of the assets was not made available to this correspondences, the dates of the forms showed that Gov. Mai Mala collected the asset declaration form on the 13th May 2019 and submitted it back on the 24th May, 2019 while his deputy collected the form on the 20th May, 2019 and returned it two days later(22nd May 2019. On his part, Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam collected the form on 20th April 2019 and handed it back on 23rd May 2019. His deputy, however, got his form earlier and submitted on 20th May, 2019. According to the Fifth Schedule part II of the 1999 constitution, section 11(1) mandates that: subject to the provisions of this constitution, every public officer shall within three months after the coming into force of this Code of Conduct or immediately after taking office and thereafter (a) at the end of every four years; and (b) at the end of his term of office, submit to the Code of Conduct Burau a written declaration of all his properties, assets, and liabilities and those of his unmarried children under the age of eighteen years. (2) Any statement in such declaration that is found to be false by any authority or person authorized in that behalf to verify it shall be deemed to be a breach of this Code. (3) Any property or asset acquired by public officer after any declaration required under the constitution and which is not fairly attributable to income, gift, or loan approved by this code shall be deemed to have acquired in breach of this Code unless the contrary is proved etc.