South-south Regional Editor, Shola O’Neil, writes on how an PIND’s capacity building training workshops for CSOs, developmental agencies, and individuals are helping them get access to multimillion naira funding, bridge knowledge gaps, improved yields for farmers and lifting Niger Delta families out of poverty. In 2018 the Ondo State ministry of agriculture created the Agro Women Initiative, as a special budgetary line to address the needs of smallholder women farmers. Stakeholders and development agencies hailed the initiative as an innovative way of ensuring that women have access to funds and agro-machinery with the aim of improving their livelihood and income. The laudable move is hyped as the first of its kind in Nigeria, as it ensures that fund is allocated directly to women farmers yearly, irrespective of other allocations that could benefit them in the sector. This positive step was the fruit of a partnership between the Partnership Initiative for Niger Delta’s Capacity Building for Local Empowerment (CAPABLE) Project and an Akure-based Life and Peace Development Organisation (LAPDO). While there is no shortage of nongovernmental organizations working for the poor and vulnerable in the Niger Delta region, their capacity to engage governments arms to push for legislations and actions that would make their jobs easier have been uncertain. LAPDO, Executive Director, Mr. Franklin Oloniju, told our reporter the organization “advocates for laws, policies and structure that support provision of quality life and peace.” But it was barely making impacts, because of capacity deficiency, which affected funding and results. “For instance, there is a way of writing proposal to meet the modern trend and allowed us to reach out to other places to source for money and other critical intervention.” Then in 2013, LAPDO met the Partnership Initiative for the Niger Delta and the union changed everything and turned the obscured developmental organization into one that is making impacts and transforming lives. “PIND built our capacity and those of other NGOs in the Niger Delta and has enabled us to mobilize resources independently, provided us access to international funds and increase our service delivery to our targets: the disadvantaged and underserviced in the society such as women, aged, orphans and vulnerable children, youths, girl child, people living with HIV (PLWHA), children in conflict with the law and the physically challenged.” Oloniju and other beneficiaries of PIND’s investments in capacity building through the CAPABLE project told Niger Delta Report that the trainings have been invaluable and help uplift their level, knowledge and capacity to properly advocate and engage governments, exemplified by the agro-women initiative victory in Ondo. Our finding revealed that capacity building programme commenced in 2010. It featured structured systems and training that elevate the skills of NGOs to attract governments’ attention and also training on proposal writing to get local and international funding needed for them to reach wider targets. A PIND source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, jokingly told our reporter that prior to the training, some NGOs were “noisemakers, protesters who didn’t know how to advocate, and so were not getting governments’ attention.” Working with the United State of Agency for International Development (USAID), and United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), PIND designed training on how CSOs can successfully engage government organs to achieved desired result. The identified CSOs were trained on advocacy, and skills needed to push for certain bills to be passed, how to mobilise and promote legislations for actions from wards and communities to get things done, especially issues concerning Sustainable Development Goals and basic SDGs like clean and safe water, among others. PIND’s CAPABLE Project Manager, Blessing Allen-Adebayo, told NDR  “What we did with the NGOs, apart from core trainings, we had specialized trainings for targeted groups.” She explained that apart from building much-needed skills in the various sector, PIND, through the trainings, ensure that by the time it withdraws from any intervention, there would be trained and motivated players to ensure there isn’t a vacuum. “For instance, our MD (Market Development) Team don’t do direct implementation, the approach is by working with market actors and service providers. So, we have specialized training for targeted NGOs working on those similar projects to what we are doing. We fund and train them on how to replicate our projects,” she said. The above description is best understood along how PIND worked with Kara Foundation, which supports key players in the cassava value chain, to teach farmers new and improved method of farming the essential crop. KARA was the face of the collaboration in bringing together farmers, agro dealers, and input companies and stimulating each of the key players to do what they should do and make the market work for them. Kara Foundation’s Nnennaya Enyinna-Eneremadu told our reporter that if PIND had given her organization money, the impact couldn’t match the amazing results an initial three-month intensive training programme and subsequent ones PIND facilitated had wrought for her. “From a small developmental organisation that operated only within Imo state just two years ago, we have covered all states of the Niger Delta, except Rivers. This was inconceivable before we met PIND in 2017.” “When we started we couldn’t go beyond Imo and barely got into Abia, but today we have reached as far as Ondo and our coverage has increased. We have met more people and we have understood the grant reimbursement process better. We are doing more than we were doing so that we can better integrate other community.” “There have be quite a lot of improvement for Kara Foundation because we have been equipped better. Why do I say this? We have gone through several trainings in good agronomic practices in cassava value chains and we know how relationship should be built so that result we want can happen.” Kara Foundation has become a co-facilitator of PIND’s work in the cassava sector.  The foundation studies identified that small-scale farmers face low yields because they lack best agronomic skills in cassava production and non-use of certain products to help them get good yields.” Working as PIND’s co-facilitator, Kara has helped create demo farms that are used to train farmers and to practically demonstrate the benefits in using best agro-management practice and improved, modern methods. It liaises with agro dealers who sell products like fertilizers, herbicides and advanced cassava stems, on the need to teach farmers adoption of their products. “The farmers are the people that need and should buy these agro-products, but they do not know. So we were able to convince dealers that if they teach farmers, it will help increase their (dealers’) sales. We link them to farmers who can buy products from them and we integrate them on the demo farm project as people who train these farmers. “So, you see, it is a win-win situation for everybody, but someone has to bridge the divide”, she said, explaining that, “Input companies are there producing; agro dealers get products from them and give to farmers. Farmers experience better yields, they see the need to expand, agro dealers sell more and producers increase capacity and all these create jobs.” Enyinna-Eneremadu further unraveled the link between the cassava value chain interventions that Kara is doing, with its other areas of its interests and how they work together to improve lives and standard of living. “In terms of platform, we (Kara) have better and bigger platform than we had before working with PIND. So we are doing more than we were doing so that we can better integrate other communities. ” “In the area of our health activities: as we are spreading; we are having wider reach to talk to women of reproductive age about the need to use the hospital, why they should practice breastfeeding, nutrition and feeding and other practices that enhanced life quality.” “We are also better able to monitor the progress of our activities. We define what result we want and we are look for result that are coming out,” she added. Nevertheless, our findings show that PIND’s CAPABLE does more than training NGOs, CSOs and developmental agencies. It extends bridging skill gaps in development agencies,professional bodies such the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), National Association of Women Jounalists (NAWOJ), the Niger Delta Development Commission and state-funded agencies saddled with task of developing oil-bearing communities.  Such trainings are to ensure that funds allotted to them for development are put to best use from conception, planning through to execution. Allen-Adebayo confirmed that PIND’s advocacy unit domiciled with CAPABLE meets with government bodies and agencies and assist them in drawing up the plans, while also identifying their skills gaps. It trains professionals in various fields: accountants, journalists. In July 2018, this report was one of several journalists trained at Capable Solutions Journalism training held at the EDC, Egbokodo-Itsekiri. “When skills gaps are identified, CAPABLE builds design modules and courses to address these skills gap and implement the training for them. For instance we have partnership with the Ondo state government to help OSOPADEC for instance to spend properly the money they are given properly within a plan in a sustainable manner,” she added. Another part of the capacity building project is the gender aspect of PIND, which CAPABLE handles. It acts to ensure that the organization looks through the gender lens in its activities. This led to a four-year plan on all of the gender matrixes, plans and actions that PIND wants to see within the organisation and projects, which are now being implemented. It also celebrates the International Women’s Day and pick a major topic that is implemented throughout the year as Post-IWD Actions.  For 2019 it adopted one of the Chorkor Oven, a female-friendly Alternative Technology sponsored by the Economic Development Project – Chorkor Oven. The oven is used for fish-smoking, a trade dominated by women in the region. The CAPABLE Manager said her team gave a chorkor oven demonstration to show women how it works and how it suits their lifestyle. Showed it ensures cleaner, better product because using the oven does not expose them to smoke and gives longer shelf-life. “After that a lot of people said they want to put chorkor oven in these communities and helped women with grants to adopt chorkor oven. Our Post-IWD action is to pursue following up and to help them implement that. “We also are working with OSOPADEC, which want to give over 100 in Ondo state. “ “We wanted to be able to get sponsor for several chorkor ovens. The ones that we did with PIND we did it with 50percent grant system, because we have a Technology Adoption Grant that if a woman has half of the money, PIND covers the other half. “We have given about 100-chorkor ovens in Ondo, Delta,” Allen-Adebayo added.