KANO State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje yesterday assented to the long-awaited Emir’s Appointment and Deposition Amendment Law, 2019, at the 136th state council meeting. The event was witnessed by the Speaker of the State Assembly and other principal officers. The House of Assembly yesterday passed into law the Bill for the creation of four new emirates. The proposed emirates, Rano, Gaya, Bichi and Karaye, are to be upgraded into first class status. The bill was an amendment of the Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Law 1984, to pave the way for the decentralisation of the Kano Emirate Council. The Assembly embarked on the amendment following a petition filed before the House by Ibrahim Salisu Chambers. The petitioner had demanded the upgrading of some traditional rulers to the status of first class emirs. Ibrahim chambers in the petition sought for the creation of the four additional first class emirate councils in Karaye, Bichi, Rano and Gaya. According to the petition, the establishment of the above emirate councils would bring more advantages for growth in the state. With the new emirate councils, the governor said: “Traditional institution will now go closer to the people in all nooks and crannies of the state. We are about to make history today, and in the Holy Month of Ramadan.” He explained that with the expansion of the Emirate Councils and importance attached to the institution alongside preserving the cultural heritage, there was a need to bring forth the all-important institution to serve the people better. According to him, all the necessary requirements needed for the immediate take-off of the new councils would be done with dispatch. The newly created Emirate Councils are Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi. Kano now has five independent emirate councils, including the Kano Emirate Council. “Kingmakers will be known very soon. So also all other process and procedures will be completed for appointing respective emirs, issuing them with appointment letters up to the coronation stage,” Ganduje said. He thanked the Assembly for the “historic work done”, emphasising that Kano would now have sustained growth in all aspects of life. Acknowledging the role traditional institution plays in the security of the larger society, he also reminded that “in the areas of education, health and environment, traditional institution is indeed partner in progress”. “With this development, therefore, all hands will be on deck to take Kano to the next level,” Danguje said. Speaker of the State Assembly Kabiru Alasan Rurum, during the official presentation of the Bill to the governor, reminded all of the traditional status of the three out of the four newly created emirate councils. He said Gaya, Karaye and Rano newly councils were in existence before for over 100 years. Along the line, he said “…many things happened when they all seized to exist.” “We are now very grateful that the hitherto existing Emirate Councils are now fully back. This will indeed be another plus to the administration of His Excellency the governor. And our Assembly for fulfilling the aspirations of our people,” Speaker said. Seven Bills were assented to by the governor.