Immediate past governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola, and the the lawmaker representing Lagos West Senatorial District in the Green Chamber Senator,  Solomon Olamilekan Adeola,  have eulogised the virtues  of  Abdulahi Ayinde Enilolobo, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos. Speaking at  a symposium to celebrate the party chieftain’s Golden jubilee, the duo, described Enilolobo as a humble,  dedicated and honest family and  party man. Senator Yayi said: ” Hon Enilolobo means everything to me. He is a political juganut in the setting of Lagos, he is a seasoned administrator who is blessed with a loving mother. “He has contributed immensely to the success of the party especially in Alimosho. If he wanted any political office, he would get it but he prefers to remain a party man. He has touched many lives and would satisfy others before himself. He has always  been there for everyone of us.” Expressing concern about the relationship between the country’s growing population and the lean  revenue accruing to the nation,  Aregbesola said: “We dont remember that we are poor here in Nigeria.If we have a deep thought, we ought to have a day of weeping every month. “If we don’t work harder to improve our fortunes, we would continue to be poor. In 2017, Brazil had a population of  approximately 200 million people almost about what Nigeria had. That year, Brazil had a revenue of about $600  billion and a budget of $700 billion.  Nigeria in that same year made $13 billion  and a budget of $23 billion. Are the two countries equal? “Today, OPEC allowed Nigeria to extract and sell 2million barrel of crude oil per day but we don’t get that quantity. Even if we get 2million barrel per day and if the price rises to $100 per barrel, it means our income will be $200 million. ” If you divide this by 200 million people, it amounts to  $1 per every Nigerian.   We have to check our population by practicing birth control. If we don’t address this, we would have huge problems to deal with. We would also need every able bodied person to work.”