LAWMAKERs will not cut   pension budgets, the new Chairman, Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service, Senator Ali Ndume, has said. Senator Ndume spoke with reporters in Lagos during a visit to the state to witness the ongoing verification of 22000 parastatal pensioners by Pension Transitional Directorate Arrangement (PTAD). According to him, pension must be prioritised in the national budget. He decried the situation where some pensioners were not paid their pension benefits many years after retiring. Ndume, who is advocating that pension issues be treated as a first-line charge, noted that President Muhammadu Buhari, along with other executive members and the legislators, believe that this is the way to eliminate pension problems in the country. He denied the allegation that legislators were reducing pension budget and not cooperating with the executive to provide appropriate funds for pension payment. He also lamented that pension budgets  had suffered from inadequate funding, just like other segments of the economy that have been budgeted for in the national budget. “The major problem that we have is that Nigeria is funding its budget on borrowing and that is an area where I am so concerned. It is sad that our local revenue generation has not been exploited efficiently and there are a lot of revenue generation loopholes that should be addressed. “A country of over 200 million and very resourceful people have no reason to be borrowing to fund its budget. That takes me back to the issue raised that the legislators are cutting down on pension budget and is not cooperating with the executive to provide appropriate fund for pension payment. There is no problem between the executive and legislature on the issue of pension because everybody is concerned in one way or the other. ‘’We will all one day become a pensioner whether we work in public service or in private sector. So, it is a problem that affects almost all of us. We all have a father, or mother or sister of brother that has something to do with pension. “But the problem is that the funds are not enough. The president is so committed and we are hoping that as more funds are available to fund our budget, more will be available for pension,” he noted.