Building top brands in banking, insurance, Fast Moving Consumer Goods  (FMCG) among others  requires  partnership, investment and great insight, an industry report has said. Such brand building was seen in Access Bank sponsorship of the Lagos City Marathon since its inception in 2016, and in 2018, over 100,000 runners and fitness enthusiasts participated in the marathon had over 100,000 runners. Since its inception, the event has successfully reiterated the need for a healthy lifestyle and woken a spirit of sportsmanship in the lives of many. Johnnie Walker recently did a thing with Game of Thrones. The liquor brand, in collaboration with HBO and Game of Thrones, and energised by the overwhelming passionate following for the TV drama series, launched a line-up of GOT-themed Scotch blends, including White Walker, the Game of Thrones Single Malt Scotch Whisky Collection and others. The brand also put together a massive GOT movie premiere for fans and collaborated with MultiChoice Nigeria to have the Game of Thrones shown on DSTV for Nigerians without access to the HBO screening service. Comedian Ayo Makun is a good example of personalities that have invested wisely, turning his premier comedy event, into prime gold. He is now an institution that constantly challenges the boundaries of comedy, incorporating contemporary elements into one single genre of entertainment. For the last three years, AY has found that partner in Peak Milk, Nigeria’s premier dairy brand. This is not totally new, as other brands have leveraged on partnerships with events and incredible stories that validate the essence of their brand. What makes Peak Milk exceptional  is how it relentlessly champions the Nigerian populace and entrepreneurs, partnering with enterprising creatives as an integral part of the Peak Milk ethos. Going beyond producing excellent products, the brand is giving back to communities through charitable organisations and routinely supporting growing industries such as entertainment, education, nutrition advocacy or sports. With Peak Milk’s support, people like AY Makun can dream bigger, execute more ambitiously, and take more risks. The pay-off for Peak Milk, and for the nation at large, is when the men and women reach their full potential, even those with limited access, opportunities and have largely been dismissed by the wider public. An admirable example is the Peak brand partnership with the Nigerian Paralympic Foundation last year. In many cases, the Foundation and its athletes have consistently achieved success through grit and determination in spite of widespread ignorance, poor funding and mismanagement. Realising the need to encourage them, it made sense to take on the honour of backing the paralympic team with nutritional support, funding for a refurbished gym, new equipment and custom mechanized vehicles to promote their stories. In the same year, the Nigerian Paralympic team won 10 medals at the World Para Powerlifting championships in Mexico and an incredible 42 medals at the 2019 World Para Powerlifting championships, beating out teams from more developed countries. Our Paralympic team have become the most decorated group of athletes in the country and a true source of pride for Nigerians everywhere. The team was always given to greatness, but with Peak’s support, they have become juggernauts. Such sponsorships can be the difference between middling success and excellence for individuals and mutually-beneficial partnerships — as seen with AY and Peak Milk; or the blooming partnership between the Peak brand and the Nigeria Paralympic Federation. This trajectory could determine a new level of success for the common Nigerian and by extension, the African continent. If more brands could be this exemplary by commitment to doing more – more partnerships, more sponsorships, then we could soar like the eagle and remain unstoppable.