Though it was planned as low key, the oath taking of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office was witnessed by a large crowd. Not even the heavy security measures put in place was enough to discourage people who thronged the millennium park to watch the live telecast of the proceedings. At the millennium park, the crowd cheered on as the president took the oath of office with high expectations. Those who could, came into the park to watch while many stayed outside the park and listening to the commentaries from the big television stationed at the park. The holiday may have also limited the turn out as the venue of the event is mainly an office area otherwise known as three arm zone. There were six dedicated car parks for dignitaries and all accredited guests who graced the event. The parks are: Millennium Tower car park, Old Parade Ground Area 10 Garki, Millennium Car Park, Eagle Square car park is for Dignitaries with Gold Cards, Supreme Court Car Park is for the evening event, and Court of Appeal Car Park. At each of the dedicated car parks, accredited buses were provided for dignitaries to take them to the Eagle Square, venue of the event. These were part of the security measures put in place to ensure smooth ceremony. Most of the dignitaries from International community and political party members and supporters were on ground to cheer the president as he took parade of guard. Buhari who wore white babariga and cap to match rode on motorcade as he rode round the Eagle Square acknowledging cheers from the crowd and waving in return with all smile. The outgoing President of the Senate Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara were among the dignitaries at the occasion. Former Presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan were notable absentees at the event
However, former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon was present. Also in attendance is the party big wigs, APC national Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and the party national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Also in the stand was former APC chair, Bisi Akande and other members of the current party executives.