Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc will continue to implement policies that will lead to long-term value creation for shareholders and other stakeholders. At the annual general meeting yesterday in Lagos, Chairman, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc, Mr Oscar Onyema, assured shareholders that the board and management will continue to work to achieve the company’s strategic objectives in order to achieve long-term value creation for shareholders and stakeholders. He said strong corporate governance standards and strategy execution shall remain priority for the board and management in the years ahead. “We will continue to ensure discipline in the management of our human and fiscal assets that help in sustaining business continuity and growth of our company,” Onyema said. He said the company will continue to improve on conditions for employment to ensure that it attracts the best professionals to help support management in strategy execution and ensure that the company has a robust succession plan. Chief Executive Officer, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc, Mr Haruna Jalo-Waziri said the company has continued to record positive revenue growth despite the many challenges in the operating environment. According to him, the company continues to see exciting growth potential in its businesses while optimizing the capability of its technologies. “Overall, our capability to process trades has now significantly increased from hundreds of thousands of trades to millions of trades daily. This development ensures that we stay well positioned to deliver clearing and settlement services across current and future product offerings of the stock exchanges we render services to,” Jalo-Waziri said. He added that the company has also continued to automate its processes to eliminate manual interventions and improve turnaround time. He pointed out that with the rapid digital transformation across industries, the company shall be exploring opportunities from emerging innovations with the potential of disrupting various aspects of the financial ecosystem. “I undertake that your collective confidence in the management of our company shall always be upheld and we shall continue to do our best to sustain financial growth and shall not stop offering our contributions to the improvement of our capital market,” Jalo-Waziri said. Shareholders approved the payment of a dividend per share of 70 kobo. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of the company for the year ended December 31, 2018 showed that profit before tax rose by seven per cent to N6.09 billion while gross earnings increased by four per cent to N9.08 billion. Total assets rose by 12 per cent to N35.9 billion. The company’s pre-tax profit margin improved from 65 per cent in 2017 to 67 per cent in 2018.