In this report, Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu and Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, take a look at the festering feud between Ogun and Imo states’ outgoing governors and their successors, as the May 29 handover date draws nearer. AS the May 29, 2019 handover date for the inauguration of new governments in most states of the federation draws closer, The Nation observes that the battle of wits between the outgoing governors and their successors, especially in Imo and Ogun states, have become more intense. Just as the media is daily awash with tales of how the governors-elect in the two states are raising alarms over how the two outgoing governors are allegedly digging ‘death traps’ for the incoming administrations, the concerned outgoing governors are also accusing their would-be successors of undermining their authorities. This fight is however not limited to the two southern states, though sources said the intrigues seem to be more pronounced there. From Imo state to Ogun state; Oyo state to Bauchi state, name it, the festering face-offs between outgoing governors and their incoming counterparts appear endless, raising concerns over how many of these governors-elect will relate with their predecessors when they eventually mount the saddle in a matter of days. Will these successors build on the successes of their predecessors? Will they allow the outgoing governors to have says in the new administrations or are we going to see an open break down of relationships between the old and the new governors after swearing in? These are questions only time can answer, especially in Imo and Ogun states, where the battle lines seem very bold. Ogun In Ogun State, amidst allegations that the state government has denied the transition committee set up by the governor-elect access to some state-owned facilities for inspection, the camps of Governor Ibikunle Amosun and that of his successor, Dapo Abiodun, are said to be at loggerhead as the inauguration date inches closer. Reliable sources within the two camps told The Nation that contrary to the ‘all is well’ posture being put out by the two politicians, the friction created between them by the last governorship election is yet to smoothen out. “Governor Amosun is bitter Abiodun won the election and he is not hiding his disappointment, even in the way he is relating with the governor-elect and his people currently. The governor elect’s people too are aware of this and they are reciprocating in the same manner. This is making the work of the transition committees very difficult. The two camps are also throwing accusations and counter accusations over some actions of the outgoing administration,” a source said. The inauguration committee put in place by the governor-elect had, during the week, raised alarm that it has been denied access to some major government facilities that would be used for various events on May 29. The facilities named include the MKO Abiola Stadium where the inauguration is meant to take place. Also mentioned is the Valley View Hall inside the Government House. The hall is being planned as the venue of the inauguration dinner, as well as the Cultural centre at Kuto area of the capital city. Spokesperson of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Tunde Oladunjoye, while speaking on the development, accused the outgoing administration of not co-operating with the governor-elect’s team towards the forthcoming governorship inauguration ceremony in the state Responding to the allegations in a letter from the office of the Secretary to the State Government, Taiwo Adeoluwa, the government said the facilities were still being used for government business, and as such are not available for the transition committee to inspect or prepare down for any of the events that will be part of the inauguration ceremony. Adeoluwa added that the facilities may not be available until about a few days to the May 29 inauguration. “The challenge, however, appears to be that most of the facilities indicated in your text message  the Valley View Auditorium, the Presidential Lodge, Mitros, June 12 Cultural Centre, Stadium  are currently being used for the routine business of governance and therefore may not be available until about a few days to the May 29 inauguration as we had duly notified during our inaugural joint meeting of Monday, April 29, 2019. “As you are aware, the state is preparing for the working visit of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, during the third week of May to inaugurate a number of legacy projects in commemoration of this administration’s end-of-tenure. Understandably, all hands are on the deck and most of the named state facilities will be in use. During the month of Ramadan, the state organises and engages in a number of daily programmes, culminating in the state’s special Iftar for which we routinely use many of the named facilities,” the statement said. Meanwhile, party sources said with the development, it has become almost impossible for the Abiodun camp to make further preparations for the inauguration ceremony. “What we are witnessing is strange. It has never happened before in our state. Not even when Amosun won in 2011 and Otunba Gbenga Daniel had to hand over to him. This type of brazen denial of public facilities didn’t happen. Some people must call Amosun to order before it is too late,” a party leader said. The Nation also learnt that joint meetings of the two camps ahead of the inauguration, which are necessary to fine tune the process that will lead to the event as well as ensure a hitch free ceremony are not being held in spite of earlier directive by the governor to the transition committee he instituted to regularly meet with Dapo Abiodun’s team led by the deputy governor-elect, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, to work out modalities for the hand over. “The last time we were to meet, we got to the venue only to be told that the meeting was not going to hold as the SSG was unavailable. I think that has happened twice or so now. And when we asked questions, they said they are still busy with then activities of their government. I am afraid that these people are just unwilling to cooperate with us towards the inauguration. It is sad that we all claim to belong to the same party,” another source lamented. Failed truce? Some weeks back, in a move that gave the impression that a smooth inauguration ceremony was on the way in the state, Amosun had inaugurated a 26-man transition committee to interface with the associates of the governor-elect, Abiodun. The committee, which comprised of 15 members from the team of the governor-elect and 11 members from the outgoing administration, was headed by the deputy governor-elect, Salako-Oyedele and the SSG, Adeoluwa. Amosun also announced his readiness to hand over to Abiodun on May 28, 2019. The outgoing governor said his transition committee had been put in place “since December 2018.” He added that keys to the Government House and the Presidential Lodge were ready if Abiodun wanted to move in immediately. Amosun promised to be truthful, accurate and helpful by presenting “a comprehensive handover note” on May 28, in a bid to ensure a seamless transition of government in the state. “We will be in position to hand over a comprehensive handover note to you on May 28, 2019. By God’s grace, 28th of May, 2019, we can sit down like this and hand over to you. We have not been sleeping so as to have a smooth running of the transition. Government House, Oke-Igbein is ready, if you want to move in tomorrow. Both the Presidential Lodge and Government House are ready. As soon as you tell us when you need the keys, we will make them available,” he said. But reports emanating from the transition teams in the state appear to be contrary to the promises made by the governor above. According to a party leader, it appears the governor and his people are more optimistic that the election tribunal will upturn Abiodun’s victory soon. “That is the only explanation for the way they are behaving. We have never had an outgoing administration that is this uncooperative with its successor in Ogun State,” he said. Meanwhile, a fresh face off is brewing between Amosun and Abiodun over the appointment of some monarchs in the state and other activities of the outgoing administration. The APC in the Ogun State has declared that Abiodun will reverse all appointments and installation of traditional rulers as well as review of employments of new entrants into the state’s workforce done by Amosun’s administration after the March 9 governorship election. On Wednesday, the State’s Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Olajide Ojuko, resigned his appointment. Ojuko in his letter of registration said he is quitting because of Amosun’s recent installation of traditional rulers in the state. Sources told The Nation that the Awori-born commissioner is quitting in protest of plans by Amosun to install Egba Obas in some villages around Ota being claimed by the Aworis as belonging to them. “It pained me from the bottom of my heart to give a notice of my resignation to a boss I love so much. By my appointment, I represent my people from Awori stock, my local government and the entire state. After service, I will have no choice but to go back home and settle down with my family and my people with total peace of mind. Recent events are making me to believe that this plan may not be feasible if I have to continue serving in my capacity as the honourable Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. “The ultimate, therefore, is that I shall become an outcast among my people. At my age, this is avoidable. My background as a civil and public servant is to be obedient and loyal to my boss, but your recent directive on the issue of Obaship in some areas in Ota State Constituency runs against my conscience, the wish and yearnings of my people that I represent,” Ojuko had said, giving insight into the real reason why he left Amosun’s government. Imo Perhaps more than in any other state, Imo State has remained a hot spot since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, as the governor-elect ahead of the AA’s candidate, Uche Nwosu, who had out-going Governor Rochas Okorocha’s blessing and support. From allegation of massive looting to the latest showdown at the state House of Assembly, associates of Okorocha and supporters of the in-coming PDP government have been at each other’s throat, thus creating suffocating tension ahead of the May 29 handover. It latest face-off began after the declaration of PDP candidate as the governor-elect when the party cried out that officials of the out-going Okorocha administration are looting the state dry. Secretary of PDP in the state, Ray Emeana, told newsmen: “We’ve continued to receive credible and verified information about the wanton plundering and looting of public infrastructure and government property by suspected agents of the outgoing administration of Governor Rochas Okorocha. “It is regrettable that these illicit activities have continued to intensify with every passing day, as we count- down to the last days of the tenure of the current administration on May 29. Although the Okorocha-led government assured the people that it would hand over peacefully to the new administration, the atmosphere had remained charged as the incoming government continue to allege calculated ploy to rape the state before handover. Secretary to the State Government, Mark Uchendu, who gave the assurance, added that the government expects the governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, to “further consolidate on Okorocha’s achievements.” But the tension … when Okorocha, in a move that attracted heated controversy inaugurated a six-man committee to see to the implementation of six new universities, colleges of education and polytechnics at the tail end of his government. The matter became a subject of debate when the governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, protested the move before the National Universities Commission (NUC), praying it not to honour the approval of more universities in the state that owes salaries. The political tension further deepened last week when the state House of Assembly suddenly sacked the 27 Local Government Chairmen in the state. Hon. Chika Madumere (Nkwerre) who moved the motion for the immediate suspension of the chairmen cited alleged contempt shown by the chairmen to the legislature by failing to appear before the house to give account of the fiscal states of the LGA’s. But just before the end of the week, the drama in the House changed dramatically, when the Speaker read a letter upturning the suspension of the chairmen, only for the other lawmakers to oppose the Speaker’s move and to subsequently set the process in motion to impeach him. Although the 21 out of the 27 lawmakers of the Assembly said that Wednesday that they have suspended the Speaker, Acho Ihim, the matter remained complicated because before the conclusion of the suspension process, the Speaker, Ihim, quickly adjourned the ongoing plenary and escaped with the maze. Commenting on the ongoing confusion and the subsequent political tension, Dr. Kingsley Nwanma, a political scientist in Owerri, told The Nation that “the intrigues can all be traced to the rivalry between the Okorocha group and the others on the handover of his government. Here in Imo, there are stories of massive looting still going on in Owerri, there are stories of attempts and moves to ensure that the incoming government fails. People are worried that the outgoing government top officials can stoop down low enough to cart away desks and chairs. The in-fighting has become so pronounced that some even doubt if the handover would be peaceful as the government promised.” A source close to Imo State Government House told The Nation on Friday that the handover tension is even within the Government House more than we can see outside. This, according to him “is more because of the huge debts currently owed public officials, including the Deputy Governor and other top aides to Governor Okorocha himself. Some insiders told us that the Deputy Governor’s salary has been almost the same as that of the commissioners and that governor’s aides, including PAs have been receiving half of the statutory salaries and allowances they were supposed to get. Right now, these people are kicking as nobody believes the incoming PDP government will pay these monies. Even the drama that is still ongoing in the House can be traced to disagreements within the loyalists of the outgoing governor who may want some form of settlement or the other before the handover date.” The atmosphere is so tensed that even the much advertised valedictory football match being planned by Okorocha in Imo has been dismissed by his critics as another jamboree aimed at squandering the state resources. Notwithstanding the fears, mistrusts and disagreements, observers said Imo and Ogun states seem poised for a new dawn. What that dawn holds for the people still remains to be seen