In exercise of his powers as the Chief custodian of the law and promoter of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2016, Chief Judge of Oyo State, Munta Abimbola on Tuesday released 51 inmates of the Agodi Prisons, Ibadan. The release, which was parts of the efforts of the CJ- led judiciary, was in its bid to promote prisons decongestions in the state. The number was arrived at out of the 205 cases presented for consideration before the Chief Judge. He led other top judicial officials, prosecutors, officials of the Nigerian Bar Association, representatives of the state Attorney General, Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC) among other NGOs in the ongoing decongestion exercise The released detainees include minors, aged and sick inmates who got the compassion of the Chief Judge, judicial officers and other stakeholders who took part in the court trial. Addressing journalist after the session, which lasted about eight hours, the CJ said the efforts were in the spirit of implementing the Administration of Criminal Justice Laws 2016 of the state which encourages speedy dispensation of justice. He lamented the rate of minors presented during the session, noting the state judiciary will do the needful to ensure commencement of family court to also aid the promotion of the Child Right Laws. He reiterated that those who were released got the privilege on compassionate grounds, expressing hope that they would not go back to the situation that brought them to the prison in the first place. He also expressed sadness at the huge number of inmates occupying the facility noting at least 1,041 of the inmates are still awaiting trial and held in custody. Comptroller, Agodi Prisons, Ibadan, Mr Akirojumu Tosin stated no fewer than 1,226 inmates were occupying the facility originally designed to accommodate only 390 inmates. He added that the Prison Service has been doing a lot to help curtail crisis and spread of epidemic in the prisons, urging the CJ to help facilitate the decongestion of the prison from time to time. The two- day prison decongestion tour will arrive the Abolongo Prisons, Oyo on Wednesday to consider the cases of the inmates and release those deserving positive considerations.