Fidelity Bank Plc plans to leverage its rapidly expanding digital banking to drive growth and leapfrog into a Tier 1 bank over the next four years. At its Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, the bank said its sustained investment in digital innovations would engender enhanced customer service delivery and open fresh streams of revenue. Its Chief Executive Officer Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo said the bank was on track towards breaking into the league of Tier 1 banks by 2022. According to him, the 2018 financial year marked the beginning of the second phase of the growth aspirations the bank. He said the bank will not relent on efforts to increase the adoption rates and migration of customers to its digital banking platform. According to him, with 25 per cent of the bank’s fee-based income coming from digital banking, the bank is introducing a digital lending solution and AI-Chatbots to spur further growth in the industry verticals, where it currently operates. “We are investing heavily in digital technologies to drive our retail strategy, reduce cost and consequently improve revenue and returns for our shareholders,” Okonkwo said. The bank’s Chairman Mr. Ernest Ebi said directors of the bank would continue to provide the right leadership with focus on governance, risk management and capital preservation. “Every action and everything we have done thus far have been around these areas. The fundamentals are very strong we intend to keep things that way,” Ebi said. Shareholders commended directors and management of the bank for sustaining good performance. Shareholders approved the payment of N3.19 billion as cash dividend for the 2018 business year, representing a dividend per share of 11 kobo. The Association for the Advancement of the Rights of Nigerian Shareholders (AARNS) Chairman, Dr. Farouk Umar, commended the bank for paying dividend regularly. He urged the management to improve on its financial performance. Former President, Nigeria Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA), Mr. Timothy Adesiyan, also commended the bank for investing in digital banking, noting that digital banking has led to increased profitability and progress. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of Fidelity Bank for the year ended December 31, 2018 showed that gross earnings increased by 4.8 per cent to N188.9 billion in 2018, driven primarily by 22.7 per cent growth in earning assets. Total deposits increased by 26.3 per cent to N979.4 billion in 2018 as against N775.3 billion in 2017. Profit before tax rose by 30.6 per cent to N25.1 billion as against N19.2 billion in 2017 while profit after tax increased by 29 per cent to N22.9 billion in 2018 compared with N17.8 billion in 2017.