Residents and property owners at Magodo GRA Phase 2 and  environs yesterday appealed to the Lagos State Government, lawmakers and stakeholders to prevent the destruction of wetland in the area. The residents, who marched  on the House of Assembly and Governor’s Office, said the wetland surrounding the gated estate formed a natural channel around the area and played a critical role in  supporting the environment against flood and erosion. Carrying placards with inscriptions, such as, “Don’t expose us to security threat”, “Preservation and conversation of the wetlands is our right”, “Save Magodo from gully erosion”, “Protect us from erosion and protect our eco system”, they urged the government to stop the destruction of the wetland surrounding Magodo and its environs. They said the stoppage would prevent increased flooding, drought, damage to their environment, nutrients run off, water pollution, shoreline erosion and decline in wildlife population. Magodo Residents Association (MRA) Chairman Jade Niboro said efforts were being made by a group of developers, in collaboration with the government, to destroy the wetland surrounding Magodo, Alausa, Otedola and environs. He said: “These speculators are clearing the area with a view to selling it for property development.” Niboro said in the scheme review being initiated by the New Towns Development Authority (NTDA), the majority of the wetlands had been demarcated into residential plots, namely Block 44A-44D, Blocks 87A and its extension, Block 89A, 10-14 and several others. He said the remaining bit of the wetlands had been earmarked for future development. Niboro urged Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa and other lawmakers, as well as stakeholders to intervene. In a protest letter cosigned by Niboro and the association’s secretary, Akin Adepoju, the residents said the granting of fresh excision within the wetland and conservation area for developments now after adequately compensating the indigenous people through village excision and payment at acquisition over 50 years ago, raised serious concerns. “It is our belief that the act is a sharp contrast to the administration’s notable landmark achievements and passion for people friendly projects, hence our appeal for immediate stoppage of the destruction of these wetlands.” Receiving the letter on behalf of his colleagues, Majority Leader Sanai Agunbiade said the lawmakers would look into the matter.  His deputy,  Jimoh Olumuyiwa, was with him. 