THERE are speculations that the Lagos State government may upgrade the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED) to a “University of Education” any moment from now, as the college prepares for its combined 36th, 37th and 38th joint convocations next week Tuesday. This will also apply to its sister institution, Micheal Otedoa College of Primary Education (MOCPED), Noforija Epe, which the government also plans to rename “Micheal Otedola Open Distant Learning University”. The paperwork to transform both institutions to universities has already been fine-tuned, remaining only for the Bill to be taken to the Lagos State House of Assembly for further deliberation. Workers in both institutions, especially those in AOCOED, have been agitating over the last decade that the state government should upgrade them. But the government has maintained silence on the matter, though admitting that the plans have reached an advanced stage. In April 2013, the Federal Government announced plans to scrap colleges of education, thereby abolishing NCE, which, according to the National Policy on Education, is the basic requirement for teaching in primary and junior secondary schools. The Lagos State government, which is the owner of both AOCOED and MOCPED, latched onto the initiative two years ago. The idea, according to the government, is to upgrade both colleges to boost enrolment and create a space for students desirous of a degree in education. When AOCOED celebrated its Golden Jubilee anniversary in 2008, its alumni association seized the opportunity to call for a change of status for the institution. Ahead of AOCOED 60th anniversary last year, workers also held a joint news conference, where they appealed to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to make an official pronouncement on the issue. The briefing was led by the then Chairman of AOCOED-COEASU Michael Avonsentiyen and Chairman, AOCOED- Senior Staff Union of Colleges of Education in Nigeria (SSUCOEN) Wunmi Ombugadu. The workers’ leaders noted that AOCOED, which is the oldest institution in Lagos, possesses both physical and intellectual capacities to be changed to a university. Chairman of AOCOED-COEASU Comrade Ige Femi said the union has now decided not to jump the gun. He said: “We have agitated for this (change of status) in time past. However, from what we have learned, the government is fully prepared for it; but we do not wish to pre-empt them. We know going through a process is more important than mere pronouncement, and we are ready to allow the process to run through. We have been monitoring the flow of information from the Ministry of Justice to the Governing Council and Ministry of Education.” Similarly, Public Relation Officer of MOCPED Mr. Damilola Sani told The Nation that workers also threw their weight behind the planned upgrade. Nonetheless, Sanni said the entire workers sent a position paper signed by the unions’ leadership suggesting that the college be structured in a manner that would create a platform for both online and traditional students. Sanni’s view was again re-echoed by the Chairman of MOCPED- COEASU Comrade Adefuyi Micheal Ayodele. Ayodele said: “Last year, we had a congregation where we met with the Governing Council over the same issues. We thereafter went online to investigate some countries in Africa that are operating ODL. In the end, we sent a position paper to the council and government. In the paper, we suggested that instead of ODL, government should allow the college to operates a dual mode, whereby we will have both the ODL platform as well as students physically on campus. The reason is that we have realised that the presence of students on campus has given a boost to the economy of Epe and the college. We would not want that to be jeapardised, if the institution is reversed to only ODL.” “We are also aware that the Lagos State has hired a consultant to work on the extant laws of the college. “We have our sources in government and I can tell you we will reach out to them this week for an update about the upgrade. “Our members too have been improving themselves so that the pronouncement does not catch us off guard. I can tell you that in recent time, over 20 of our members have completed their PhDs and others are still on their programmes. Special Adviser on Education Mr. Obafemi Bank-Olemoh was noncommittal. “You should not expect me to confirm what you have heard,” Bank-Olemoh told The Nation on phone at the weekend. “But I can assure you that government is a continuum. We are working on it. Once we make the announcement, you will hear. Please wait until the announcement.” Chairman, House Committee on Education Lanre Ogunyemi also confirmed that the upgrade now enjoys executive approval.