The police Explosives Ordinance Disposal (EOD) Department has warned explosives and radioactive material stakeholders to adhere to the guidelines for the movement and security of such items, or lose their licences. This warning came on the heels of concerns over how Boko Haram terrorists and other criminals have access to large quantities of grenades, mines and other Improvised Explosives Devices (IEDs) used in attacking banks, religious centres and public facilities. There have been allegations that these criminals usually bought the materials through the back door from those licensed to operate such businesses. Fielding questions from reporters after a meeting with the stakeholders in Lagos, the Commissioner of Police in charge of EOD, Shehu Maikudi, said there was need for effort to control the movement, use of nuclear, biochemical and radioactive materials, to prevent their getting into wrong hands. He said importers of explosive and radioactive materials must follow standard procedures by obtaining permit/licence from regulatory bodies and the Inspector-General of Police (IG) as part of control measures. Maikudi said those who failed to ensure adherence to the guidelines would have their licences withdrawn, in addition to other sanctions. Addressing the stakeholders, the police chief said: “The Nigeria Police EOD Command will not fold its arms and watch continued misuse and misapplication of explosives. Inasmuch as it has been conceptualised that commercial explosives are indispensable, and as such circulation and or importation of such explosives cannot be terminated; we are monitoring by putting measures in place to ensure control over illegal use and proliferation of the items. “Rapid progress is not obvious when you keep recycling the same process in crime fighting, but requires constant re-strategising of innovations, methodology, surveillance and regular sensitisation of the public as a means to enlighten the minds of the explosive operators, essentially the retailers, to see the necessity of educating their end users, especially the illiterate ones, on the standard operating procedures and provisions of the statutory Explosive Acts 1964 and Regulations of 1967 Nuclear/Radiological Security. “The prevailing menace of terrorism and the need to proffer a solution necessitates the involvement and collaboration of stakeholders. This is why we want you stakeholders to get involved in the task of wiping out terrorism from Nigeria’s landscape. On our part, we are working round the clock to adopt a more preventive approach to illegal misuse and misapplication of explosives and its allied materials from getting to wrong hands.” Highlighting some of the measures adopted, he said the EOD had engaged in massive public and corporate sensitisation campaigns on preventive strategies; creation of additional EOD bases in troubled areas and state commands where threats by insurgents were dangerously alarming, as well as the country’s borders and ports. “We ensure that explosive magazines, which fail to measure up to required standards, are closed down, as part of control measures. We have increased surveillance in states where there are mining activities. “EOD of the Nigeria Police has established Chemical Biological, Radiological, Nuclear Section (CBRN), as a control measure to checkmate unauthorised use, storage, transportation and importation of Radioactive/Nuclear  Biological and Chemical agents by miscreants in the society. “The EOD Command is energising and collaborating with regulatory bodies such as the Ministry of Mines, Nigerian Nuclear Regulatory Authority (NNRA), Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism (GICNT) and other relevant MDAs to ensure that terrorists do not have access to these materials to perpetrate crime. “We appeal to stakeholders to cooperate with us in our pursuit at ensuring a safer Nigeria that is free from the threat of terrorists’ activities, criminal gangs and from others who are involved in illegal use of explosives and radioactive materials for personal gains. “We require from you useful information that can facilitate effective performance of our duties through proactive control of such activities in the nation. It is pertinent for us to protect the integrity of our beloved country,” he said. Maikudi, who also held the CP’s second quarterly conference with all EOD senior officers and commanders, hailed his men for a successful outing during the general election. He said: “Now that elections are over, we will consolidate on the achievements we have made so far by monitoring, identifying and preventing post-election violence in our domain. It is our duty also to deter use of explosives and other dangerous materials by hardening the target. We should continue to deploy human and technical resources at our disposal to stop the criminal use and misapplication of explosives and allied accessories.”