The Senate Majority Leader, Senator Biodun Olujimi has denied mocking the immediate governor, Ayo Fayose and the PDP candidate in the last year gubernatorial election over Supreme Court judgment. It would be recalled that there was a widespread report alleged to have originated from Olujimi in which Fayose was alleged to have destroyed the chances of the party with his selfish agenda to ruling by proxy with his puppet fielded as the party’s candidate. She allegedly said Fayose’s high handedness in muzzling the party to pursue selfish interest forced many of its strong members who could have swayed votes for the party in the election. The lawmaker representing Ekiti South Senatorial District said such statement was handiwork of some mischievous element who wants to cause division within the PDP. According to a statement signed by her Special Assistant on Media, Chief Sanya Atofarati, the widespread report can be easily affirmed as a figment of imagination of the writer and his cohorts and a miscalculated attempt to fan the embers of discord within the PDP. “For me, considering my very busy schedule would not have dignified these rants with any response, but in the overall interest of the unsuspecting citizens whom by this statement might be misled, hence, the need to set the records straight. “Senator Biodun Olujimi, a party leader whose efforts in uniting the party at all times and having been commended at all levels could never have issued such a disuniting statement. “It must be noted that prior to the governorship election, Senator Biodun Olujimi spent her personal resources to mobilize well-meaning leaders and members of the PDP to ensure the success of the party in the election. “She also rallied round across the 16 local government areas and the 171 political wards of Ekiti state with the guber candidate, Prof. Olusola Eleka whom she has always enjoyed smooth relationship with. “The general public, especially PDP members are hereby urged to disregard such statement and see it as one orchestrated by agents of political ravagers set out to malign the hard earned reputation of sportmanship built over the years by our distinguished Senator Biodun Olujimi”, he said.