The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) yesterday said plans are underway to create a special tariff for vessel acquisition by the Ministry of Finance and the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). Its Director-General, Mr. Dakuku Peterside, stated this on the sidelines of the ongoing Oil Technology Conference (OTC) in Houston, Texas, United States (U.S). He said the high cost of vessel acquisition is gradually driving away many indigenous players in the maritime sector, noting that NIMASA will reverse the trend. He explained that the agency is currently in discussion with the NCS and the Finance Ministry to ensure that a special tariff window is created for vessel acquisition as part of efforts to build capacity and create more jobs in the maritime sector. He said a situation whereby foreign vessels pay a paltry one per cent for temporary import permit to bring vessels into the country to do their business and go away, while their indigenous counterparts who are not operating the vessel on temporary basis pay 13 per cent is a disincentive to local operators. He said: “You know the maritime sector is a capital intensive one coupled with the fact that the cost of accessing fund is equally high. But in order to encourage our indigenous players to compete favourably with their foreign counterparts, we must ensure that we crash the cost of doing business. And that is why we are engaging the Customs and the Finance Ministry on a special tariff for vessel acquisition.” He also said talks are in advanced stage between NIMASA and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to arrange a single digit interest rate for vessel acquisition. The acquisition of vessels at a single digit interest rate, according to Peterside, would go a long way in increasing the number of vessels owned and operated by indigenous operators. Dakuku said NIMASA is currently reviewing the guidelines for accessing the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF). The CVFF is a two-per cent deduction backed by law for every carriage contract from shipping operators. Meanwhile, Oil production from Nigeria’s deepwater province is currently 850,000 barrels per day, representing 40.47 per cent of the total production of 2.1 million barrels per day. “Currently, total production is 2.1 barrels of oil per day (bpod) while deepwater is production is 850 bopd. Cumulative deepwater production as at December 2018 is 3.2 billion barrels.” The Director, Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Mordecai Ladan, stated this at the ongoing offshore technology conference in Houston, Texas. Ladan who was represented by Deputy Director, Upstream, Mr. Enorese Amadasu, deepwater oil blocks are those located in areas of water depth beyond 200 metres and extending up to 200 nautical miles seaward from the coasts of Nigeria.