Plans are underway to ensure Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) officials receive hazard allowances and have life insurance to boost their performance, Chairman Israel Ajao said yesterday. He spoke at an interactive session with Lagos Division stakeholders held at the Teslim Balogun Stadium (TBS), Surulere, Lagos Mainland. He said the agency had lost four corps officials since inception in 2017. Ajao, a retired Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), represented by a board member, Babatunde Aboyade, appealed to residents to avail the agency and other security outfits of credible intelligence to contain kidnapping and other crimes. He said LNSC was assisting the police in intelligence gathering, which he added was mainly received from the public. Noting the prevalence of cultism in the Lagos Division, Ajao said the agency was collaborating with the education board and ministry to put in place a blueprint that would curb the vice. “Despite that the corps officers carry no arms, they have been diligent in discharging their responsibilities. At present we are working on their hazard allowance, which is before Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. “We have lost four of our members so far and we want to convince the corps officers that we mean business, as we give them adequate insurance so that they will be able to do more. “On cultism, we will have an open discussion with educational authorities. We already have a plan to visit schools, catch them young and talk to the grassroots on the evils of cultism,” he said. Lagos Divisional representative Ishola Laguda hailed the government for the moral and material support to the agency. He said: “Looking at the population of Lagos State, we have the challenge of shortage of security personnel. Despite the challenges, we have synergised with the police to ensure crime is reduced. “In some foreign countries, you hardly see the police. They utilise technology and their neighbourhood patrol personnel to check crime. “I praise the legislature for supporting the government in the establishment of the agency. I also commend the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) for their support and LNSA board for their commitment to the safety of Lagosians.”