Nigeria’s inability to implement a cost-reflective regime in the power sector is as a result of gas-to-power subsidy introduced by the Federal Government years ago, the Change Partners International Founder, Akachukwu Okafor, has said. The country currently subsidises the cost of gas  used in generating electricity, a development, which made accessibility of the gas much easier to power firms, which use the product to generate electricity for the people. He said the decision by the Federal Government to pay subsidies on gas and other products used in generation and transmission of electricity is impacting on the industry. “The power distribution companies (DisCos) sell electricity to consumers at N36 kilowatts per hour. The cost would have been higher, if government was not subsidising the cost of gas that is being channeled to the power firms for the purpose of generating electricity. Besides, the government ensures that the cost of transmission of electricity is relatively lower. This against a situation whereby solar and other sources of off-grid electricity can be sold to the consumers at  N80 kilowatts per hour or more, depending on the producers of such energies. He added that:’’ The reason why the cost of solar and other methods of off-grid electricity is high is that producers (individuals and companies) spend a lot on production. Unlike on-grid electricity, which cost is subsidised by the government, the same cannot be said of solar electricity, which its producer(s) is wholly responsible for the cost of production.’’ In a related development, Okafor urged the Federal Government, states and private investors  to develop a structured market, with a view to harnessing the potentials in solar and other renewables for growth, the  Change Partners International Founder, Mr Akachukwu Okafor, has said. He said the development became necessary in order to producers of solar and other renewable energies get the real value for their produce. Already, Lagos, Ekiti, Osun, Kaduna, Sokoto and Kano are generating solar electricity in order to help improve generation and further provide power to hospitals and other government owned facilities. Okafor told The Nation that the country does not have a market that is structured to meet the aspirations of individuals and companies, which generate solar and other forms of renewable energies in order to compliment grid electricity. He said it is good that states are producing solar and other energies that are presently not captured by the national grid. However, such energies are meant for a structured market, which Nigeria is lacking. The issue of providing a structured market for solar and others is still a problem in Nigeria. He said once a structured market is in place to facilitate the sales and purchase of solar energy, companies are going to be motivated  to produce such energies. “When I say structured market, I do not mean physical market;  I mean electricity market and when such market is in place, solar producers would be able to focus on industrial clusters for growth ,” he added. On generation, he said he could not specifically state the volume of power generated and transmitted by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) due to the fluctuations in power generation. It would be recalled that Federal Government, states and private investors invested over $20billion on new solar power projects in order to boost supply in the country. They include the $479 million Shiroro power projects in Niger State; $5billion Delta State Utility Scale Solar Projects, University of Ilorin solar power plant, among others. Future Energy Nigeria, in a report, indicated that Northern Nigeria has some of the highest irradiation in the world.