A Member of the Ondo State House of Assembly from Akure South Constituency 11,  Sunday Olajide, has unfolded his ambition for the Speaker. The Akure born legislator is poised to send contest against Speaker Bamidele Oleyelogun from Isarun (Ifedore), from Ondo Central District. No fewer than five members are eyeing the office of the number three citizen. Olajide said the legislative arm of government is the epicentre of democracy, stressing that the present leadership has nothing to show case as achievements. He is currently the Chairman, Finance and Appropriation Committee of the House. Speaking on his contribution to the out-going eighth Assembly, Olajide said “there were several outstanding financial reform bills that had not been passed which could have put the state in line with other states which have complied with world best practices. “With my coming on board as chairman, Finance and Appropriation, with other members of the committee, we took up the challenge to pass the outstanding reform bills. “Some of the bills are, Fiscal Responsibility Bill, Public Procurement Bill, Financial Management Bill, and Audit Bill. All the bills were passed into law as chairman, to the delight of world bank, Ondo state government and other stakeholders which culminated in the state getting multi million naira assistance from the world bank.” He said some of the assistance the state got from the World Bank include three brand new Toyota Hiace Operational Vehicle, a 32 Coaster Bus for legislative activities, Computers to each of the offices of the 26 members of the house, furniture to various offices of members, clerk, as well as conference rooms among others. One of the lawmakers, who is an ardent supporter of Olajide but spoke in confidence, said the legislator would offer creative ideas for  toughest problems and new governing philosophy anchored on opportunity, responsibility and transparency if he becomes the new Speaker. According to him,” Olajide is eminently qualified with his sound academic background, his wealth of experience and as a vibrant member of several standing and ad hoc committees of the house.” On the claim that the Secretary to Government (SSG) and Speaker can not come from the same constituency, the legislator said membership of the state assembly is through election and SSG is an appointee of the governor. He maintained that such development had happened in the past in many places without controversy. The lawmaker recalled that there had been several impeachment moves against the leadership of the Assembly in the past which was resolved through the intervention of the Governor at every occasion. Olajide promised to overhaul the Assembly, if he is elected as Speaker, stressing that the premises of the legislative house lacked basic things to enhance the productivity of lawmakers. He said there are no functional public address system for members during plenary, while members had to endure the pain of exchanging one microphone amongst themselves under excruciating conditions. He said members sweat profusely during plenary because of non-functional air conditioning system, saying” the hallowed chamber is now a glorified poultry where furniture and fittings had damaged beyond repairs. Olajide promised a robust and constructive engagement at the hallowed chamber, if he becomes the Speaker, stressing that this would play an enduring role in deepening the values of democracy and good governance. 