Nigeria’s daily crude oil output is about to be 240,000 barrels per day short as the second largest export pipeline network; the Trans-Forcados Pipeline (TFP) went on flame late Sunday. The Nation could not immediately ascertain the cause of the fire, it was however gathered that the mysterious fire started at about midnight, around Yeye community in Burutu council area of Delta state. Heritage Energy Operational Services Limited (HEOSL) is the joint venture operator of the Trans-Forcados Pipeline. The export facility conveys about 14% of Nigeria’s total daily output, carrying crude from about 7 oil blocks across the oil-rich region. According to the chairman of Yeye community, Pastor Philip Fianka, who broke the news of the fire in a text message at about 12:42am, the fire broke out around the Chanomi axis of the community. “Happening now, there is a severe fire outbreak on Trans-Forcados Pipeline (TFP), Chanomi axis, Yeye community”, the alarm text message said. Efforts to get Fianka to say more about the incident were unsuccessful as his two mobile telephone lines were unreachable as at the time of filing this report. Also confirming the development, renowned environmental activist, Comrade Sheriff Mulade said he had been informed of the fire outbreak, but was yet to lay hands on details of it, adding that he would reach back as soon as he had more valuable information. Confirming the development to The Nation in Warri in a message on Monday morning, the General Manager, Community Relations of Heritage Energy Operational Services Limited (HEOSL), Mr Sylvester Okoh, said the fire occurred at a crude oil spill site along the pipeline “At about 2300hrs on 19 May 2019, a fire incident was reported at the crude oil spill site along the TF pipeline around Yeye Community. It was gathered that the fire occurred due to excessive heat from a pumping machine which was being used to transfer crude oil from the spill site into a barge . “The fire was reported to have destroyed some equipment at the scene. The houseboat and gunboats were safely relocated from the scene of the fire incident”, he explained.