Eyes are on Babajide Sanwo-Olu as he assumes the reins today as the sixth governor of Lagos State. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on his emergence as an All Progressives Congress (APC) aspirant and candidate, and the hurdles he crossed before his victory at the poll. He could be described as a man of destiny. A year ago, he was not in contention for governor. He only focused on his job as the Managing Director of the Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSDPC). In the leadership hierarchy of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), eyes were not on him for any role in the foreseeable future. His popularity was limited to his antecedent as a former special adviser and commissioner. But, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu had one thing going for him. His loyalty is not in doubt. The APC chieftain is loyal to the party, its organizational structure and its leadership. He is tested and trusted. Little did he guess that the reward for political fidelity was in the offing. The time to fulfil his destiny was ripe during the last electioneering. As the Lagos APC family proposed change, Sanwo-Olu became the symbol of the clamour. The aged, youths, women and other stakeholders were falling upon one another to embrace his ambition and endorse his candidature. He understood the motivation for the intra-party agitation and yearnings of the party faithful. Thus, he summed them up under a big headline: inclusion. Sanwo-Olu visited all party leaders, party officers, elders, office holders, religious leaders, other Lagos opinion leaders, women groups, artisan, and peasants with a new message. In the party, he preached unity and cohesion. Turning to Lagosians, he urged trust, confidence and faith in the ability of the ruling APC to continue to deliver in the Centre of Excellence. He gave hope to the youths and reassure women that he will cater for their needs. Many people believe his promises and words of assurance. The only resistance came from the incumbent he was destined to succeed. The battle line was, therefore, drawn. There was a grand design to ridicule him through some highly inflammable remarks, which only those who wielded the power of incumbency could make and go scot free. As the primary drew closer, Sanwo-Olu was described as an unsuitable candidate. Allegations of inexplicable fraud and unstable mental state filled the air. Party supporters and, indeed, Lagosians dismissed them as a tissue of lies and products of malicious politicking. On daily basis, the former Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions was waxing stronger. His strength lied in his power of ideas, persuasion, focus and reliance on the Almighty God. The Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation (BOSCO) office at the Government Reservation Area (GRA), Ikeja became a Mecca of sorts. The campaign manager, Tayo Ayinde, and his team were up and doing. Various sub-committees were found and assigned duties which they discharged creditably. Gradually, Sanwo-Olu’s supporters became a movement. On the day of the primary, he was on the popularity scale. Ahead of the exercise, he had traversed the party, explaining his vision and mission. He was calm and calculated. His knowledge of the party paid off. People recalled his earlier involvement in government and governance, right from when he was invited to be an aide to former Deputy Governor Olufemi Pedro to his last assignment at the LSDPC, and nothing incriminating was found against him. On the podium, he was agile; vocal and full of incisive wit. The outcome of the shadow poll underscored his popularity and the love of the faithful for him. On that note, the days of Akinwunmi Ambode were numbered in the Alausa Government House. Having secured the ticket, Sanwo-Olu was locked in sober reflection. The flag bearer waved the olive branch, urging the supporters of his rival to sheathe their swords. He said that the primary was over, enjoining them to focus on the governorship poll. Since he knew that he could not do it alone, he called for understanding, dialogue and reconciliation. He urged those who sought party tickets during the parliamentary primaries not to lose hope. They were co-opted into the campaign organisation. He also tried to pacify those who lost out during the local government elections. The campaigns were not a tea party. Although the first rally at the Airway Ground, Ikeja was disrupted, it did not stop the APC campaigns. The door-to-door campaigns were also effective. Sanwo-Olu and his team met all stakeholders across the five divisions of Lagos, Epe, Badagry, Ikorodu and Ikeja. He also held meetings with stakeholders across the tree senatorial districts. In all the places he went, he was hailed as the incoming governor. Joy was bold on the people who promised to vote for him. The opponent, Jimi Agbaje of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), looked formidable. But, his fragile party had been hit by a gale of defections and intra-party squabbles ahead of the election. Although the umpire noted that the poll was marred by a sort of apathy, the APC candidate triumphed over his PDP rival. Shortly before the announcement of results by the chief returning officer, Agbaje called Sanwo-Olu to concede defeat and congratulate him. There was jubilation at the APC office along Acme Road, Ogba, Ikeja as the flag bearer broke the news to party elders and leaders were in the office of the party chairman, Tunde Balogun At 54, Sanwo-Olu becomes a state property as governor of Lagos, a mini-country shouldering heavy national, sub-regional and continental responsibilities. There is no family in Nigeria that is not represented in Lagos. The state is noted for its accommodation as the former federal capital and economic hub. Although Lagos is rich in terms of its Internally General Revenue (IGR), which is aroundN33 billion monthly, it is poor because of the massive dosage of responsibilities. There is pressure on the social infrastructure. Experts are concerned about the population explosion triggered by the influx of many people in search of real and imagined greener pastures. While he is expected to endow the exalted seat with honour, integrity and visibility by building on the achievements of his predecessors, he is also expected to learn from their shortcomings. The challenges that confronted them will still confront him. The strategies they adopted in tackling the challenges are not too far to seek. The governor fully understands the blue print or 24 year-Development Plan. In 2023, Sanwo-Olu will give an account of his stewardship. The governor was born in June 25, 1965 in Lagos. He is a graduate of the cosmopolitan University of Lagos, Akoka, where he studied Surveying. He also attended the London Business School, the Lagos Business School and the John F. Kennedy School of Government. Sanwo-Olu also earned an MBA degree from UNILAG. He is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM) and Fellow of the Nigeria Institute of Training and Development (NITAD). Sanwo-Olu is not a politician without a second address. He was the Treasurer at former Lead Merchant Bank from 1994 to 1997. He also worked with the United Bank for Africa (UBA) as the Head of Foreign Money Market. At the First Inland Bank, Plc (now First City Monument Bank), he was a Deputy General Manager and Divisional Head. In private business, he was also a success. Sanwo-Olu was the Chairman of Baywatch Group Limited and First Class Group Limited. He is a board member of the Department for International Development (DFID/DEEPEN) Fund and Audit Committee of Caverton Offshore Services Group, PLC. Since 2003, he had placed his hand on the plough and never looked back. Although he entered joined the Tinubu administration as a technocrat, when was appointed a Special Adviser on Corporate Matters to Pedro, he later learned the ropes. He served as Acting Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, and later, Commissioner for Commerce and Industry in 2007. In 2007, he was appointed as Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions by former Governor Babatunde Fashola SAN). In 2016, Ambode appointed him as Managing Director/CEO of LSDPC. His achievements include the supervision of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) Privatization Projects. He also played a great role in the setting up of the Lagos Security Trust Fund. He served as its pioneer board chairman. The LAGBUS System and the Control and Command Centre in Alausa were also part of his initiatives. On September 16, last year, he threw his hat into the ring when he declared his intention to run for governor. He was endorsed by the Lagos APC Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the three senators from Lagos, House of Representatives and House of Assembly members from Lagos State. Later, another aspirant, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, who later emerged as his running mate, withdrew from the governorship race. After winning the primary on October 2, no fewer than 63 political parties, and other organisations and groups endorsed his candidature. Sanwo-Olu is a recipients of many awards and honours. They include the Platinum Award from the Lagos State Public Service Club, 2009 Best in Human Capital Development award from the Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Merit award from the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Merit award from the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management in Nigeria (CIPMN), Merit Award from the Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN), and LSDPC Impactful Leadership and Recognition Award. Sanwo-Olu is married with children to Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu. 