The students Representatives Council of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, has suspended its Students’ Union President Awodola Oluwaseun Samuel, aka Unique. Samuel was suspended alongside his three lieutenants: Lasisi Ojo Samuel, Ayeni Damilola and Olugbede Promise. They are the assistant general secretary; welfare director and social director respectively. The suspension was contained in a memo by the SRC Speaker, Anifowose Temitope, and three other officers. The statement said Oluwaseun and three others got the axe following a resolution by two thirds majority of the members, which had 46 in attendance when they voted at the weekend. The memo said the former students’ leaders were fired for contravening FUOYESU’s   constitution bordering on extra budgetary spending and misappropriation of the union’s fund to the tune of N1,808,000 approved for the ‘fresher’s night’ an event usually organised for new student as well as its proceeds. The memo read in part: ‘The affected executives are kindly advised to submit all the properties of the union in their possession, including their identity cards to the students’ affairs. They are also to desist from parading themselves as members of the executive committee with immediate effect until the council sits to review her decision.” The memo instructed Oluwaseun’s deputy to act as president. “The general secretary should take the sole responsibility of the secretariat while the committee of welfare and social should act in stead of the social and welfare secretaries respectively,” the memo added. The clerk to SRC Babatunde Sunday alleged that Oluwaseun and the affected executives committed a lot of impeachable offences varying from extra budgetary spending, misappropriation of funds and gross misconduct all in relation to the spending of 1.8million on Fresher’s night. “The executive in their own way have violated the constitution when it comes to finance. In the aspect of disbursement of money,” Sunday argued. “Constitutionally it’s not in the position of the president to disburse money, it is the duty of the treasury so that there is going to be a correlation between the treasury and financial secretary. Now that the money is coming from the president I don’t think there will be a tally” “They are other impeachable offences the house hasn’t touched. Our investigation is restricted to the 1.8million for now.” Similarly, the Speaker, Comrade Temitope validated the suspension. He added that there were 46 members in the house and only 5 voted against the suspension. The suspended executives, he said, have been holding on to some sensitive documents that could aid the investigation, adding that the development irked one of the SRC members who raised a motion for their suspension so that the documents could be released. Nonetheless, Oluwaseun described the suspension as mere rumour, saying he is yet to be formally served a letter to that effect.