The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Jamil Sarham, who is also the Land Component Commander of Operation Delta Safe, has revealed that Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, decided to declare war against him for rejecting his (Wike’s) billions of naira to compromise the February 23 and March 9, 2019 general elections in Rivers. He also described as bizarre and spurious, the allegations by Wike that he was involved in illegal bunkering and leaking the proceedings of the State Security Council meetings to criminals in Rivers state, among others. Maj.-Gen. Sarham, on Tuesday in an online statement by 6 Division’s Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, condemned the unfounded and false allegations against him by Rivers governor, a chieftain of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the video clip released on May 15 by “one” Simeon Nwakaudu (Wike’s Special Assistant on Electronic Media). The GOC said: “Wike’s resentment against me is based on my choice of professionalism and integrity over the billions of naira offered me by the Rivers State Governor to compromise the 2019 general elections. My refusal to be bought over and the rejection of the hefty offer is the genesis of Wike’s hatred and vociferous criticisms of me. “Although, the Nigerian Army does not wish to take issues with the Rivers State Governor, yet it is important to strongly state that the allegations are false and figment of Governor Wike’s imagination. It is a deliberate effort to tarnish the towering image of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, and the GOC, 6 Division, Nigerian Army. “Needless to say that in response to many accusations against the 6 Division, already some responsible good individuals and groups in Nigeria have exposed the antics of Governor Wike against the leadership of the 6 Division and the Nigerian Army. “It is imperative to state that the campaign of calumny against Maj.-Gen. Sarham and the Nigerian Army’s leadership by Governor Wike did not start today. On 22nd February, 2019, Governor Wike brazenly alleged that there was an attempt to exterminate his life by assassins organised by the GOC, 6 Division. As weighty as the allegation was, we are yet to know any action taken by Mr. Wike that guarantees his safety. Mr. Wike has since failed to use civilised legitimate options to prove his allegations against Maj.-Gen. Sarham. “On the mischievous accusation against Maj.-Gen. Sarham of leaking proceedings of State Security Council meetings to criminals in Rivers State, Mr. Wike knows well that Maj.-Gen. Sarham is not a member of the Rivers State Security Council, neither has he ever approached the gates of Rivers State Government House, since his assumption of office as the GOC, 6 Division. Mr. Wike only came face to face with Maj.-Gen. Sarham on the 15th of January, 2019, during the 2019 Armed Forces Remembrance Day parade at Isaac Boro Park, Port Harcourt. “The Nigerian Army wishes to challenge Wike to provide the public with any evidence of such meetings, with Maj.-Gen. Sarham in attendance. Wike’s allegation against Maj.-Gen. Sarham’s selfish involvement in illegal oil bunkering is another reckless, spurious and mischievous accusation.
Hence, Headquarters of 6 Division wishes to request the Rivers Governor to take the most civilised way of putting up a petition to the relevant authorities, to make a point.” Maj.-Gen. Sarham also assured of the commitment of personnel of 6 Division to the protection of lives and property, as well as the protection of critical national infrastructure in its Area of Responsibility (AOR), for the benefit of the nation. The GOC declared that no amount of blackmail and area-boy gerrymandering would affect his resolve and commitment to discharge his roles professionally and in line with the vision of the chief of army staff.