The National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Bénin City, capital of Edo State, has reserved ruling till Thursday, May 15, on whether to call for oral evidence in the petition filed by Ehiozuwa Agbonyinma against the election of Jude Ise-Idehen in the Ikpoba-Okha Federal Constituency seat. The Chairman of the tribunal, Justice O. Ogundana, frowned at several processes and motions filed by counsel to petitioners and respondents before the tribunal at the weekend. Justice Ogundana said the tribunal does not relish the sort of practice as the panel ought to have knowledge of what to do for the day. Counsel to the petitioners, Ken Mozia, in his argument on the need to call the bailiff to give oral evidence, said the respondent gave conflicting statements in their affidavit. Mozia said the issue would not be resolved without calling for oral evidence. He said the respondent in two separate affidavits  said there was service and there was no service. Counsel to Ise-Idehen, Richard Ahonaruogho, said the call for oral evidence  was not a case contemplated by law. Ahonaruogho said there was inconsistently in the document sought to prove service. In the petition filed by Engr. Abubakar Momoh, against the election of Senate Deputy Chief whip, Mr Francis Alimikhena, the APC urged the Tribunal to strike out the petition on the ground that the person whose name was mentioned in the petition is Mr Akemikhena. Counsel to the APC, Mr. C.I Aiguobarueghian, said ‘Akemikhena’ is not known to the party and did not contest the election been challenged. Aiguobarueghian also urged the tribunal to strike out Paragraph 16 of the petition and all the tables thereunder,on the ground that it is “generic, in-exact, meaningless and speculative.” “We are asking with respect sir, that paragraph 32(c) of the petition be struck out because it is not a ground known to the Electoral Act,” he stated. Counsel to Momoh, Mr G.C.Igbogwe, who described the APC moio  as frivolous, urged the tribunal to dismiss the application. According to Igbogwe, “The Paragraph 16 he talked about is a further reference  to paragraph 15 of the petition, they should have taken a closer look at it for better understanding.“ On the second issue, paragraph 32(c), it is only a typographical error in the spelling of the name of the respondent.” After listening to both counsels, the Chairman of the National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal in Edo, Justice O. Ogundana, reserved ruling on the motion to the final judgment day of the petition.