The House of Representatives committee probing the management of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) for alleged breach of 1999 Constitution on the five-year review of the revenue sharing formulae has said it may no longer consider the option of issuing a bench warrant of arrest against the management workers of the agency. The agency was being probed for alleged data collection processes, maintenance and utilisation for the computation of indices for horizontal revenue sharing in the case of Federation Account and both vertical and horizontal revenue sharing on the 13 per cent Derivative Funds. The management was accused of stalling the investigation by disregarding the invitation it and its alleged failure to provide relevant documents to aid the investigation. Besides, the committee accused the agency of preventing other invited organisations from honouring the ad hoc committee’s invitations. Speaking at a public hearing yesterday, the panel’s Chairman Mark Gbillah said the action of the commission contravenes Section 32(b) of the Third Schedule Part I of the 1999 Constitution. The section stipulates that the “review from time to time, the revenue allocation formulae and principles in operation to ensure conformity with changing realities”. According to Gbilah, RMAFC management prevented the committee from carrying out its constitutional responsibility, as contained in Section 4 of the Legislative Houses (Powers and Privileges) Act. The panel chairman said the agency delayed the investigation and refusing to honour invitations and requests for information, including their condemnable and unlawful official instruction via correspondence to another tier of government not to honour the constitutional requests of a legitimate committee of the National Assembly. “In line with the provisions of section 89(1d) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) section 6(1,2,3) and section 11(a,b) of the Legislative Houses (Powers and Privileges) Act, the Rt. Hon. Speaker of the House of Representatives has approved the initiation of statutory sanctions (issuance of an arrest warrant and criminal prosecution) against the acting Chairman and management of the RMAFC and will not hesitate to approve same against any party who refuse(s) to honour the constitutional requests of the Committee”. Saying that the panel has no vested interests or intentions to vilify or patronize any party, the panel Chairman assured that the panel would be guided by objectivity and equity in the conclusion of its mandate and in the spirit of reconciliation and camaraderie. “Therefore, the Committee is willing to prevail upon the Speaker to suspend the institution of sanctions against all erring parties if related parties are willing to provide the committee with the statutory enshrined and required cooperation and compliance.” On why the Committee took a hard stance on RMAFC management, Gbilah regretted that the agency disregarded extant laws by shirking its responsibility of collection and maintenance of the integrity of data utilized for the computation of indices for horizontal revenue sharing in the case of Federation Account and both vertical and horizontal revenue sharing in respect of the 13 percent Derivative Funds. “RMAFC’s failure to undertake the review of the 2012 horizontal and vertical allocation sharing formulae after over five years of obviously changing realities as statutorily envisaged has stifled equitable revenue allocation that will enhance good governance. “The impending implementation of a new minimum wage across the country has exacerbated widespread agitation among the 36 states and 774 local government areas of the country for additional revenue and has generated increasing doubt and concern about the efficacy, accuracy and fairness of the current horizontal and vertical revenue allocation to the state and local government areas,” he noted. 