A Niger Delta-based company, Elano Investments Limited, has recorded N5.2 billion as dividend for the year ending March 31, 2018. The company manages host communities’ 7.5 per cent equity dividends from Indorama Eleme Petrochemical Company in Rivers State. The Chairman Board of Directors of Elano Investments, Chief Gomba Okanje said out of the dividends, the company gave the sum of N2.3 billion to the host communities of Eleme as specified by the Federal Government through the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). Okanje, who said this in Calabar during the 6th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the company, told the shareholders that they have done a lot in the health and educational sectors for its host communities. He further said the company was entering a stage of diversification and consolidation to ensure the achievement of sustainable development of host communities through their programmes in education, health care, infrastructure, housing and security. “Our health insurance programme has a portfolio of 6, 600 beneficiaries from all our host communities and has saved many lives through critical surgical procedures such as caesarean deliveries, regular preventive medicine and hospitalisations. Our educational programme offered more than 200 bursary awards to students in tertiary institutions all over the country and has assisted many recipients to earn their academic qualifications,” he said. Okanje said they also plan to resume their post-graduate scholarship and skills acquisition programmes for deserving and qualified members of their host communities in the years to come. He urged the host communities to continue to maintain peace as investors are very cautious of security in the environment they operate. The AGM resolved that the host communities should henceforth also submit their own audited accounts in the spirit of openness and transparency as the amount distributed as dividends to host communities are managed by committees appointed by the leadership of each community.