The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa State has called on aspirants for the 2019 governorship election to be mindful of their utterances, especially in the media. The party said reckless utterances by some of the likely aspirants could overheat the polity and enthrone unnecessary tension and anxiety in the state ahead of the election. In a statement signed on Wednesday by its state Secretary, Chief Godspower Keku, the PDP said it was disturbed by recent media statements sponsored by some of the prospective aspirants to undermine the peace in the state. The statement noted that the PDP-led Restoration Government worked really hard in the last seven years to ensure a stable political space devoid of the usual volatile atmosphere ahead of crucial elections. The party said with just few months to the governorship election the calmness, peace and tranquillity in the state political space was unprecedented and a remarkable indication of the political dexterity of Governor Seriake Dickson. Keku added that persons fond of going to the media with irritating stories about the party and the governor were in the habit of giving their supporters a false impression about their political worth and capacity to win elections. The PDP scribe pointed out that elections were not won on the pages of newspapers and advised those willing to contest to rather intensify consultations with their constituents and gather more support to help them realize their ambition. He said the PDP remained the party to beat in the state and with Dickson leading at the front; it was poised to repeat the same feat it did in the 2015 governorship election. He added that despite all the odds including the use of federal might, Dickson became the first PDP governor to win a highly contested and hard-fought re-election with an opposition party at the center boasting that the resounding victory would be repeated in the coming election. Keku maintained that Dickson was firmly in control of the party saying it was evident in the last election which saw the party winning most of the seats in the state and National Assemblies. The statement urged all aspirants and party faithful including persons willing to contest the governorship election to close ranks with the governor to secure victory in both the local government and governorship elections. The statement said: “As the political space is beginning to charge up, the leadership of the PDP in Bayelsa will like to call on all intending aspirants for the governorship to be careful of their utterances, particularly in the media. “We have seen sponsored media publications which in our view seeks to undermine the peace in the state. It is highly unnecessary the intentions of those behind it as any attempt to push it further will over heat the polity. “The Restoration Government under His Excellency Governor Henry Seriake Dickson has worked hard to ensure political stability which has won the governor accolades at the national level. Unlike in the forgone past, we have elections just few months away and yet the usual heightened tension and anxiety are not in play. “Let us remind those who need to know that we have the capacity to win elections over and over again. We did it in 2015 and in the just concluded state and national assembly elections and we will surely do it again. Governor Dickson is still the man on the saddle and he is firmly in charge of the party and the state. “We therefore urge those who are always propagating falsehood with wrong impression of having the capacity to win election to stop deceiving their supporters but should rather increase their mobilization and consultations. For us as a party we will continue to provide a level playing ground for all”.