TO underscore the need to empower young people on best practices and the imperative for classification of films towards promoting critical thinking and best morals amongst Nigerians, the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) was in a “Collaborative Workshop for Youth Empowerment Programme” with FUTURE Assured. Themed, “Media Literacy and Capacity Building on Youth Protection through Critical Thinking”, the workshop held on Tuesday at the Aliyu Kabir Maska Hall Katsina State Local Government Service Commission. The wife of the president and founder of Future Assured Initiative, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by Dr. Mrs. Zakiyya Masari, wife of the Katsina State governor lauded the objective of the Board, hoped that the effort will reach all parts of the country and encouraged the Board to ensure that films are not used as an avenue to destroy the nation’s culture and traditions, stating that the “preponderance of violent crimes like robbery, kidnapping, banditry have all been linked to films.” Mrs. Buhari also admonished the recipients of the financial empowerment initiative, who additionally received mobile phones and other souvenirs, to “justify the confidence reposed in them by reporting cases of violations and unwholesome activities by unscrupulous people.” On her part, Mrs. Zakiyya Masari undertook to collaborate with NFVCB on her pet project, the BIMA Foundation, a women, youths and children empowerment initiative, in order to create more empowerment opportunities for the captured demographic. The Katsina governor who was represented by Hajia Dr. Talatu Nasir, Permanent Secretary Sustainable Development Goals, pledged the state’s commitment to the establishment of Katsina State Film and Video Censors Board to support the country’s burgeoning film industry, preserve and protect the cultural and moral values, create more jobs, boost state revenue base and project the cultural values of the state on the international sphere as proposed by censors board. In his opening remarks, Adedayo Thomas noted that “the youths need protection from harmful media contents. These days, we have influx of harmful and unsubstantiated contents, ranging from fake news, hate speech to unwholesome films and videos circulating on online channels and social media. It is therefore desirable for everyone to be intentionally critical of media contents exposed to in order not to be caught in the web of harmful and destructive materials.”