The Abia State Command of the Nigeria Police Force said that it has smashed and arrested some members of a kidnapping gang that have been terrorizing residents of Aba, the commercial heartbeat of the state and its environs. The arrest, our reporter gathered was made at Ebenma Street off Ogbor Hill in Aba North Local Government Area of the state. It was learnt that the leader of the gang who was identified as Okpakpa and also popularly known as Capo was arrested with four other members of the gang at the weekend by police operatives from Ndiegoro Police Division (Cameroun Barracks). While it was yet to be verified if the gunmen were arrested with arms, sources within the police in Aba claimed that the gang has been unleashing terror on innocent Aba residents over the past weeks. The sources stated that police have launched manhunt on other members of the gang said to be at large. According to the State Commissioner of Police, CP Eneh Okon who spoke to our reporter in a telephone interview confirmed that the suspects were in police custody as the time of filing the report. CP Okon, while corroborating that the gang has been terrorizing residents of Aba and its environs in the past weeks, added that the gang members have been on the wanted list of the Abia State Police Command. He said that men of the Ndiegoro Police Division swooped on the hoodlums at the said location at the weekend after their intelligence paid off while they were trailing the gang and monitoring their nefarious activities in Aba and its environs. The Abia Police boss who stated that the suspects have been giving useful information since their arrest said that investigation into the matter is still ongoing. Our reporter who recalled the killing of former Enyimba International Football Club player; Christian Jacob by unknown gunmen reports that residents of Ogbor Hill who have been living in fears recently over the activities of gunmen in the area had called on heads of various security agencies in the state to come to their rescue. Some of them who spoke on the arrest of the gang members on Tuesday expressed happiness with the development and went further to call for more actions from the security agencies to nip rising crime in the area in the bud.