The forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National and State Assembly members-elect in Kogi State has endorsed the second term bid of Governor Yahaya Bello. The forum, comprising 2 senator elects, 7 House of Reps members’ elects and entire 25 House of Assembly members, said its decision was based on Bello’s performance in critical areas, including security, education, infrastructure development, civil service reforms and human capital development. It said it would purchase gubernatorial nomination and expression of interest forms for the governor. Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Matthew Kolawole, who spoke on behalf of the group, said “90 percent of the accusations of harshness and non-performance leveled against Bello are unfounded.” He attributed “the great success” of the APC in the last general elections to Bello’s “purposeful leadership”. Kolawole said: “The leadership and membership of the Kogi State Chapter of the Governing Party has grown from less than 50,000 members in 2015 to over 500,000 registered members today. We have gone from a fractured and divided house to a formidable championship side. One does not change a winning team in soccer after the first half of the match.” He said Bello’s re-election would allow him to consolidate on his performance. Kolawole added: “We have resolved to put resources together to purchase the Gubernatorial Nomination and Expression of interest form of our party, APC for our amiable Governor to contest the 2019 governorship election in Kogi State. “We hereby wish to inform those intending to cause disaffections in our party APC to desist as our party under our able state chairman, Hon Abdullahi Bello is intact and rancor-free. “It is pertinent to note that the Governor that delivered 2 senatorial seats out of 3, 7 House of Representatives seats out of 9 and 25/25 seats of the Kogi State House of Assembly is the true leader that really loves the progress of the party, there is no reason he will not be given the party’s ticket.” He insisted that party procedures, due process and the rule of law “must be the only considerations on how our flag-bearer for November 2019 Governorship Election emerge. “It is also good to let the opposition know that there is no vacancy in Lugard House, Lokoja till January, 2024 when His Excellency Alhaji Yahaya Bello would be rounding up his second term in office.” The forum also warned those attempting to cause disaffection within the party to desist, and assured the APC’s National Working Committee that there was no crisis in the state chapter