The Members of the Oyo State wing of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) will commence an indefinite strike on Monday. This came as the state government restored 100 per cent subvention to own tertiary institutions. The NUT said the strike became necessary due to the inability of the state government to meet its demands. The government had invited the leaders of the union to a parley on May 15 but no deal was reached. In a statement by the union at the weekend, the NUT acknowledged that its leadership met with the state Head of Service and the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs on May 15 during which both government functionaries made passionate appeal to them to shelve the proposed strike but stated that their appeal could not change anything because none of their demands was met. Consequently, the union directed its members in all public primary schools in the state to proceed on indefinite strike action. The state government has restored 100 per cent monthly subventions to all its tertiary institutions. According to a local online newspaper, Megaicon Magazine, the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof Adeniyi Olowofela, disclosed this in an exclusive interview on Sunday. The commissioner explained that the restoration of 100 per cent subvention to the institutions was done in April, adding that it was aimed at assisting them to put an end to their financial constraints. He further explained that the reduction in allocation and grants necessitated the need for the state government to cut measures which also affected the tertiary institutions in the state. He said: “Prior to the 2019 general elections, Governor Abiola Ajimobi had also met with the management of various institutions and they both agreed on how to offset their backlogs which the government has started implementing. “. The commissioner, however, urged the management of all the state-owned institutions to be more innovative, resourceful and also look inward on how to be self-sustaining. Their allocations were cut in 2016 as aftermath of the economic recess in the country.