You die in the middle of your life, in the middle of a sentence – John Green Writers are eccentric and out-of-the-way people. They are like characters out of their fiction. They shock, surprise and take their readers on wild trips. Take a study of the life of writers and you’ll get what I am writing about. The greater they are, the more their eccentricities. A famous writer is bound to have more of this than one that is not. The life of a writer is like good journalism, the bloodier the better. Before 2002, Binyavanga Wainaina, the Kenyan writer who died last Tuesday at 48, was just like many struggling writers on the continent. However, his fortune and story changed with his winning the Caine Prize for African Writing and as they say, the rest is history. Immediately he came to world fame, at least in the literary circuit, his star shone and he never went out of the limelight until he breathed his last. He broke boundaries and pushed the envelope to a point he became a voice to be listened to on almost all matters African and literary. His most popular essay How to write about Africa became a reference point for many about how to (and not to) report the continent. His memoir One day I Will Write About This Place, is a book with a different narrative that tells a bit about everything. It is at once exciting and at another ordinary. He was a writer on the fast lane and gave a new voice to Kenyan young writers. There was no doubt that after the generation of Ngugi waThiong’o and Meja Nwangi, Kenyan literature seemed to have gone into a lull until he emerged to give it a new voice and verve that was hitherto unheard. Wainaina courted controversy and lived his life to the full on his own terms.  In 2014 against all odds, he came out openly to state his true status as gay and living with HIV. In his home country like in many countries on the continent being gay was a taboo. However, the fact that he was mostly living abroad and with his fame he never expected that anything untoward would happen to him. In defence of his right to his choice and the kind of life he had chosen to live, he gave an interview in which he declared; “All people have dignity. There’s nobody who was born without a soul and a spirit. There is nobody who is a beast or an animal, right? Everyone, we homosexuals, are people and we need our oxygen to breathe.” He got a shoulder to lean on in his Nigerian friend and writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie who strongly stood by him when others were perhaps not ready to speak out. According to her, Wainaina “demystified and humanized homosexuality.” For his gay rights activism TIME magazine in 2014 named him one of the ‘most influential persons’ of that year. It is sad that he had to die this young. There is no doubt that his death has denied the continent and the world the chance to have more of his contributions to world ideas and body of knowledge. Last year when two great American writers –Philip Roth and Tom Wolfe –died, I wrote in this space on May 27 that “writers don’t die.” This holds true for Wainaina; there is no epitaph that anyone can write that would be greater or more authentic than the books, essays and stories he wrote in his lifetime. One may not like his choices but he was no doubt a talent whose voice has been silenced by the grim reaper in his prime. 