It will be good to listen to a corporate affairs executive give his candid view of an average Nigerian journalist. You are likely to hear him whine that the journalist is always troubling him for one financial aid or the other. He is also likely to weep that the journalist expects gratification for every story or picture he sends for publication. Chances are that he will write off the journalist as one sold to ‘brown envelope’. But, the executive is unlikely to talk about the fact that he cherishes killing stories. It will be shocking if he confesses to liking to dictate the headline or the pages his stories should be published. The heaven will fall if he pleads guilty to complaining anytime a balanced story is published because he likes it always slanted in his organisation’s favour. Truth is: The journalist is wrong so is the corporate affairs executive. Neither has done anything illegal. But ethics is in bondage here. Who will free it? You may wonder why I am travelling this route today. It is because I get confused when people paint journalists as bribe-takers, blackmailers and all sorts. I will be the first to confess that there are bad eggs among us. Plenty of them. And these rotten eggs have made me think of switching profession, though some may see it as 20 years late. What if I become a banker? It occurs to me that bankers do not have a better image, too. They are accused of round-tripping, over-charging customers and so on. Okay, maybe I should go abroad, do a degree in Law for three or fewer years and return home to attend the law school preparatory to starting a career in law. But, I realise that I will also be worried when people complain that lawyers are liars. I will be disturbed when people accuse them of defending thieves, treasury looters and fraudsters. So, law practice is cancelled from the list. With my degree, joining the police force may not be a bad idea and I will be starting from the middle. I did not have to think about this for long before it occurs to me that I will die of worries if I pitch my tent with the police. The cases against the police are weightier than the media. I certainly will feel bad if people accuse me of collecting N20 bribe. After all, if one wants to eat a frog, he should eat the one with egg! I also will not feel cool if I am described as a thief, and sleep will elude me anytime I pass through what we call police barracks in Nigeria. Medicine could have been another option but I am several decades behind. Where do I start? I will have to write the Senior Secondary School Examination and pass Physics and one or two other sciences, which I could not pass at the Ansar-Ud-Deen Grammar School, Isaga-Orile, in 1996. The odds are against me, but even if I succeed, there are things to worry about. Doctors are not saints. I will feel bad if patients complain that most of us who work as consultants in government-owned hospitals have more time for our private practice than the government’s work. I will also not be happy if I am unable to get full employment because gone are the days when jobs were always waiting for doctors. Now we have doctors who just manage what they can get. What else is left? Let me try politics jare. It is time to return to Epe and build my political career, but wait a minute, isn’t quitting journalism for politics like jumping from the frying pan to fire? After all, I am in search of a profession no one will say any bad thing about. Will I not die when people describe me as a killer? Will I be able to sleep if I am accused of doctoring my age to be eligible for a position? What will become of me when bile and blood are directed at me? I better forget about this option. And then I remember I have a talent. I am a creative writer and I have a novel described as “a work of deceptive simplicity” by Man Booker-shortlisted author of The Fishermen, Chigozie Obioma, to show for it. But how many writers in Nigeria feed off their literary works? None that I know of. Before you tell me that Obioma and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie earn enough from their talent, remember that their case is different. Adichie shuttles between Nigeria and the United States. Obioma lives in the United States. I live in Nigeria where publishing is still unable to make anyone live beyond the poverty ring. A very good friend and big brother of mine, who is an established writer in Nigeria, has two books published by what many consider the country’s biggest new generation publishing firm. Last year, one of his books sold 3,000 copies. He was paid a royalty of a whopping N160,000. Please add, in one year! Tell me if this can pay his children’s school fees. I also remember the tale a novelist and professor told of how after many years he went to the local office of an international publishing firm that printed and reprinted his debut novel for years, and he was rewarded with N80,000 for writing a great work that merited many a reprint. That is all he has ever got from this amazing book. Maybe the only option left is for me to join the Lord’s vineyard. Men of God are respected. Their opinions count and people daily throng their homes and churches to seek counsel. So, finally here is a great alternative. But I have to wait to be called or can I call myself as many have done? Or operate under the anointing of a senior man of God? But wait a minute, men of the cloth are also not free from allegations. No thanks to the cheats masquerading as God’s representatives on earth. They make people pay to receive the anointing; they make people cough out hard-earned cash for the magic they call a miracle, and they use juju to hoodwink people. Oga o, what will I do now? I am at my wit’s end! My final take: There is no profession for saints. And like it is pointed out in In The Name of Our Father, ‘angels live in heaven; the earth is no home to them’. What we should all do is to give our best in whatever we do. If you are in government, govern well. If you are a reporter, report well without fear or favour.