The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, yesterday expressed concern over the manner Nigerians voted along regional and ethnic lines in the last general election. He wondered if the trend persists, where the capacity for managing the nation’s diversity would come from. He said that “We are practicing politics of very poor quality. The politics is so regionalised, factionalised. Whenever I look at the map of the last elections, I don’t feel proud as a Nigerian. “That you have an election in which very clearly the country is divided into two and the lines are precise, meaning what the north is saying and thinking is different from what the south is saying and thinking. They are not reality they are perception. And if this is the kind of county we have, how do we develop the capacity to manage the diversity.” He spoke in Abuja during his lecture presentation on Optimizing Public Relations Strategies for National Cohesion”, at the 2019 Annual General Meeting of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR). According to him, the nation has been so divided that even the appointments of universities Vice Chancellors are based on state of origin and religion. He noted that it is now impossible for a southerner to become vice chancellors in regions other than their own. The priest urged the federal government to interrogate the governors that introduced Sharia law in 1999, on the emergence of Boko Haram sect. He said the areas of operation of the sect are now contiguous with the areas where the Sharia declarations were made, stressing that to create a much better, just and fair society, hypocrisy has to stop. He said it is now virtually impossible to travel from Sokoto to Zamfara by road because of insecurity in the country. The priest recalled that “in 1999, Sharia law was declared in Nigeria, and almost all the 19 northern states joyfully, exuberantly adopted Sharia. Boko Haram and bandits have now taken over our country,” he said. Kukah has, in the last few years, delivered a lecture on national cohesion, adding that the nation’s current challenges are due to inability to manage its diversity. He said to tackle the issue of diversity; there must be an excellent application of team work management skill. According to him, the nation’s quest for national cohesion remains an illusion because too many issues have not been resolved. He noted that Nigeria has no clarity of vision and it is only in this country that people drive vehicles without navigational aids. Kukah also said there is no institution in Nigeria that has not been taken over by quacks, “including our politics.” He said that whereas the universities should have been the ones to proffer solutions to national issues in the country, there has been a persistent war between them and the government. The academic experts that should brief the president are never engaged to do so.