Women from all walks of life thronged The Prenuer Centre Lekki, Lagos during the week. The event was the 2019 Candle Lighting and Induction Ceremony organised by the Business and Professional Women (BPW) Clubs in the state. They are BPW Lagos Rubies, BPW Lekki, BPW Lagos Crystal and BPW Ikeja Golden club. The opening remarks was taken by  Mrs. Tinuade Ihama, member, BPW Nigeria, Board of Trustees the Candle lighting ceremony was very significant to the organisation and it an annual event. The ceremony was coordinated by Mrs Ihama and Dr Keziah Awosika, another member of the organizations board of trustees. Presidents of the different clubs and other members were called upon to light the candles one after the other. “The Candles are symbolic and they represent the founding continents, Europe, Africa, members across the world as well as the suffering masses,” Ihama informed. She also talked about the vision and mission of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women and some of the projects done. “BPW is the voice of women, the voice of the voiceless to enable women to achieve their dreams. ”The candle lighting is to celebrate each other achievement and light the darkness in their lives. Women are the light of the world. ”We also gives economic independence, equal opportunity, provide lifelong education, eliminate all forms of discrimination  against women, fight for human rights and engage in non-profit projects,” she said. She admonished women to encourage and be of assistance to one another through worldwide networking with women in other parts of the world. The high-point of the event was the induction of new members into the club and this was coordinated by Mrs ify Osineme, BPW Nigeria’s first vice president. “We use this opportunity to welcome you all on board and we trust that this would be the beginning of greater things for all of you,” she stressed.  A lecture with the theme: “Women, mental health and depression” was delivered by Dr Otefe Edebi, a member of Tranquil and quest Medical team. He started by defining mental health and goes on to talk about the features of clinical depression, risk factors, types of depression as well as the risk factors. Edebi, informed that the risk of depression could be reduced if Nigerians learn to engage in regular exercise and pay attention to how and what they think. “Depression is a serious condition. Some of the risk factors are personality, environmental factors, genetics, and family issues. ”Some of the symptoms also are low mood, reduced energy, loss of interest, change in sleep patter, ideas of self-harm or suicide and poor memory or concentration,” he said. He added: “People facing depression should make use of self-help tools such as regular exercise, pay attention to what and how they think and seek help from friends and family members.” 