Had Nigerians not heard such tough talks before, the latest threat by the Federal Government to go after high-profile obligors of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) might be interpreted as signalling a new resolve to put closure to a sordid chapter in the financial sector’s troubled history. Receiving in audience the new AMCON board last week, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo spoke of the government’s resolve to deal decisively with individuals and organisations that made the list of high-profile obligors of the corporation. Specifically, he spoke of government’s plan to “set up an inter-agency collaboration framework that would comprise relevant government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) and supervised by his office, to ensure that institutions and individuals that are indebted to AMCON are not allowed to do business with the government henceforth”. According to Vice President Osinbajo: “I think the time has come for us (Federal Government) to set some examples with some of these top debtors of AMCON, which I believe will set a good example and serve as deterrent to others”. We understand the vice president’s frustrations. By AMCON’s estimates, the debts owed the apex bank currently comes to a staggering N6 trillion. Meanwhile, AMCON is facing serious difficulties in its attempts to sell recovered assets at competitive market price, owing chiefly to what AMCON’s Managing Director Ahmed Kuru attributed to” valuation methodology, unperfected title documents, state of the economy, purchasing power”. The assets involved are said to have a book value of N182 billion. Also reported are difficulties encountered by AMCON in the efforts to smoke out more than 5,000 debtors on AMCON’s list. However, nothing – as it appears – compares with the uncooperative attitudes of select obligors, many of whom are said to be either unwilling and/or unable to settle their indebtedness. This newspaper quoted AMCON’s managing director in July, last year, as bemoaning the situation in which “such debtors prefer to resort to all manner of diversionary tactics as opposed to dealing with the problem of their indebtedness…most of them are buying time, to where we do not know”. We agree with the vice president that the situation requires drastic measures. What we doubt is whether putting them on government blacklist will achieve the desired result as a good number of the debtors may not be government contractors. Even among the few that might be contractors, it remains to be seen how the measures will be effective given the widespread corruption in the federal bureaucracy and the footloose accounting woven into its fabric. As far as we can see, the real issue is whether AMCON itself or even the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has done enough to force the hands of the recalcitrant debtors. We say this because the debtors are already well known to the monetary authorities. After all, that was the basis of the infamous ‘name and shame’ episode under which the monetary authorities caused the list of the chronic debtors to be published in the newspapers.  That this did nothing to change the situation obviously rules out the possibility of any form of subtle persuasion working, barring enforcement. In any case, where is the incentive to pay what they owe when it remains fairly easy for the players to access credit from the same financial system they contributed to plunging into ruin? The measures proposed by the vice president are certainly no more than those that would be expected of a responsible government in the circumstances. However, what the task at hand requires are tough measures from the CBN and AMCON. Yes, the judicial system might be tardy and frustratingly so; nothing however says that pathological debtors and entities remotely linked to them cannot be shut out of any form of credit until they make good on their indebtedness.