As part of its corporate social responsibilities, Total Exploration and Production (E&P) Nigeria Limited organised a week-long free health programme for Opobo community and its environs. SOUTHSOUTH BUREAU CHIEF BISI OLANIYI reports that the event which took place at Opobo General Hospital on Wednesday had far-reaching benefits to the people. Until late last year, travelling to Opobo Kingdom, the coastal ancient domain of the great King Jaja of Opobo, which is also the headquarters of Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area of Rivers State, had always been by boat; from Kono-Ogoni Waterside in Khana Local Government Area. The journey of about 20 minutes from Kono-Ogoni to Opobo had always been risky and dangerous. Passengers had been attacked by armed sea pirates, who rob them of their money, mobile phones and other valuables. The pirates also seized boat operators’ expensive engines and paddles with which they (pirates) move the boats to the shore. Aside this, some female passengers were also raped inside the boats, even as passengers who had no money or any valuables must have been seriously beaten. Quite unfortunately, after stealing the boat’s engine which costs about N500, 000, the criminals would sell it cheaply to ready buyers. The attacks continued unbridled, despite regular patrol of the waterways by security personnel. With the Ogoni-Andoni-Opobo/Nkoro Unity Road nearing completion, criminal activities on the Kono-Opobo route may be history; and soon too. Vehicles easily drive into Opobo. Passengers seldom patronise boat operators as travelling by river is becoming less attractive. As a result of this, boat operators have begun to lament the prospect of being out of business, even as the pirates are said to have started relocating to other parts of the oil and gas-rich Niger Delta. The strategic road, linking Khana, Andoni and Opobo/Nkoro local government areas of Rivers State, was initiated by the then Rivers Governor, Dr. Peter Odili (1999-2007), whose deputy, Sir Gabriel Toby, is indigenous to Opobo. The project was adequately supported by the administration of Rotimi Amaechi (2007-2015), now Transportation Minister, whose Commissioner for Works, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, currently the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), also hails from Opobo. The present administration of Chief Nyesom Wike (from 2015) is almost completing the road despite its swampy terrain. The original soil was excavated and evacuated then sand-filled to enable it to last longer. In its resolve to reach out to the people of its host communities and their environs, Total Exploration and Production (E&P) Nigeria Limited has organised one-week free health programme at Opobo General Hospital as part of its Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR). The event took place on Wednesday. In his goodwill message, the Chairman of Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers, His Royal Majesty King Dandeson Douglas-Jaja, who is also the Amanyanabo of Opobo Kingdom, urged the people to take issues of their health serious. The first-class monarch, who was represented by the Vice-Chairman of Opobo Council of Traditional Rulers, HRH Alabo Princewill Dappa, stated that health should be taken seriously by the people to enable them to live longer. The monarch also urged the oil giant to extend the programme to other communities in the area, even as he praised the firm for the initiative. He thanked the volunteers for attending to the people, saying many people had benefited from the programme. Also speaking, the Women Leader of Opobo, Mrs. Felicia Pepple said she was excited to be part of the programme, even as she commended Total for the gesture. “Health is better than wealth,” she said. Pepple noted that if health is lost, everything is lost, but when wealth is lost, all things are not lost. She urged the oil company to make the programme a regular one. “Things are very hard. No money to access quality health care. You can see the crowd here,” she said. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Rosemary Wilcox said: “The free health programme is very encouraging. It is timely and good for many of us who do not have money to go to the hospitals for checkups or treatments of various ailments. But here, we are being treated free and given free drugs, including surgeries for critical cases.” Another beneficiary, Miss Ibelema Oko-Jaja, praised Total for the programme which she described as so beneficial to the less privileged individuals. In his welcome address, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Community Representative, Alabo Godwin Bupo revealed that many development projects by Total were ongoing in the area. He expressed gratitude to the oil giant for the gesture. The Programme Facilitator, Dr. Daniel Onyetulem, stated that he had passion for saving lives and medical missions. Onyetulem said: “One of the major reasons people don’t go to hospitals for treatments is lack of money to settle hospital bills. The Opobo medical mission is coming at the right time, as the patients are leaving happier than they came. “Unwanted pregnancies, rape cases and substance abuse are rampant in this area and other parts of Rivers State, and they must be quickly addressed, especially by creating awareness through continuous campaigns.” The medic also praised the oil giant for the initiative, even as he praised the people of Opobo for their co-operation and warm reception. Chairman of Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area, Eugene Joseph Oko-Jaja pleaded with Total to consider some qualified youths of the area who are currently jobless for employment opportunities. Oko-Jaja, who was represented by a top official of the council, Francis Allison, called on Total to make the free health programme an annual event, while assuring that he was ready for synergy with development agencies, to move the LGA forward. In his keynote address at the third day of the week-long free medical service for Opobo and Nkoro communities, the Deputy Managing Director, Port Harcourt District of Total, Mr. Francois Le-Cocq revealed that it was the first time the life-saving medical outreach was holding in the LGA. Le-Cocq, who was represented by Total’s Community Affairs Manager, Offshore and Port Harcourt, Okechukwu Obara said: “As a company, Total E&P Nigeria Limited believes in the universal saying that healthy people make a wealthy nation. “We are sustaining the noble efforts of the joint venture to reach out to the critical needs of our people and support both preventive and curative health care delivery policies and programmes of government, despite the challenging business environment. “After two days of this programme, available statistics indicate that 450 patients have so far been attended to. Eighty-five were pediatric cases, 112 ophthalmological, four ante-natal cases, while four patients have already undergone successful surgeries. Others are awaiting further review, preparatory for surgery. “The figures will rise as the days go by, which is a testimony that the programme is very popular and it is highly patronised by the people. “The project has helped a lot of individuals and families who could not afford the cost of health care in our private clinics, against the backdrop of the current challenges facing public health sector of our states.” The Deputy Managing Director also hailed the joint venture partner, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), for the continuous support. He also thanked the Rivers State government for approving the team of medical personnel and volunteering its facility for the programme. He also commended other partners for the success of the event. In order to have healthy citizen, other oil companies, multinationals and other critical stakeholders should emulate Total to make health care accessible and affordable for the poor.