House of Representatives member-elect Kolawole Taiwo has promised to give Ajeromi-Ifelodun Constituency quality representation in the National Assembly. The politician said he would not betray the confidence reposed in him by the people. The former Lagos State House of Assembly Deputy Speaker said he would bring his experience to bear on the development of his constituency. Taiwo said the resolve to transform the constituency through quality representation would be fully demonstrated immediately after his inauguration. He promised to tackle the drainage problem in the area, immediately his new tenure begins. He said changing the mindset of the people would impact on the development of the constituency. His words: “I have a firsthand view of the problem, especially the customs yard which I am going to take up once I am inaugurated. They have the culvert blocking the major outlet of water into the street and instead of them to do a box culvert, they did a ring culvert. It is not good for us. “I spoke with them and told them that I am going to remove this, if I won and I have won. We are going to remove it, because in the process of trying to channel the flow of water, they have blocked a section of it with iron, which gathers dirt and prevents the flow of water. “One of the best layouts we have in Ajegunle is that of the Olodi and Wilmer. Imagine the drainage is good and you are on that road, you see the road very straight and so beautiful, but most of the roads are bad and I know we are going to seek an urgent solution to that problem.” Taiwo attributed the infrastructural decay in the constituency to lack of compensation for the use of facilities in the area. He said: “In Apapa, we allowed heavy-duty trucks to ply our roads and they have damaged most of our roads, because they were built for small vehicles, not big trucks. But, because we permitted them them to use our roads, they are in deplorable shape. We will solve this problem, for the people to see the different between our government and the previous government.” Taiwo said the youths in Ajeromi are exposed to anti-social behaviours. He added: “I raised these issues during my campaign about our children picking wrong role models. I was discussing with one of our council chairman and I asked him why the council has not deemed it fit to build a mall in the area, like Ikeja Mall, where our children will now be; instead of living on the streets. We will take them out of the streets to the malls, because now the street is dangerous. “The bricklayers, carpenters, mechanics are now cultists and our youths see them as role models. That is why I talked about building a youth centre; we want to have a platform where we can bring good people that have passed through Ajeromi to be their role models.”