The Police in Rivers state on Tuesday said that they have killed a notorious criminal in the state, ThankGod Nwandiko (a.k.a Commander Buky). The State Commissioner of Police (CP), Musa Belel disclosed this in Port Harcourt, the state capital, while parading a group of criminal suspects arrested in the state within the month of May, 2019 and part of March, 2019. Belel said the victim who was arrested in his Omarelu community of Ikwerre Local Government Area (LGA) of the state following a tip-off, was however killed when he attempted to  escape while taking the Police to arrest his gang members at Isiokpo community also in the same LGA. The CP described Nwandiko as a notorious kidnapper, armed robber, murder and cultists who was responsible for the heinous killings and beheading of members of his rival cult groups as well as the attacks on motorists along the Omerelu/Owerri road axis of the LGA. The police equally paraded a Bank driver Chris Kani who supplies information to armed robbers and kidnappers about customers and key bank officials for ransom and handsome rewards. The criminal during interview with newsmen at the parade ground that had ones released information concerning one of the banks big customers who was later attacked and some money was given to him. He also admitted that he also planned the kidnap of his bank manager and head of marketing of his bank, but however said he later called up the arrangement by lying to the kidnappers that his manager had travelled overseas. Addressing news men, the CP said, “Operatives of the Eagle Crack Squad, acting on credible information, smashed a gang of arms dealer and arrested one Is real Amadi (41) and Micheal Okunna (35). “They were arrested on May 16, 2019 at Elele Alimini Barrack road in Emohua Local Government Area of the state and a total of 889 live cartridges concealed in a big sack bag, driven in a tricycle. The cartridges were meant for supply to hoodlum terrorising the East/ West road Also the Eagle Crack team of the Police Commamd led by Jovinus Iwu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), paraded a gang of kidnappers/armed robbers age between 19 and 31 years. They were arrested for different parts of the state and suspected to be the criminals terrorising the state, and various kinds of dangerous weapon recovered from them, including 3 AK-47, 29 rounds of ammunition six magazine s, assault rifle, locally made gums, four different cars, millitary shoes and uniforms among others. Also speaking on the Governor Nyesom Wike swearing-in for the second term, Belel assured of adequate security access the state as he warned trouble makers to steer clear or drop any plan to format trouble in the event. He said, Let me strongly assure the good people of Rivers state that the state police command under my watch, ensure that the swearing-in ceremony is hitch free, devoid of violence or acrimony. “Our security arrangements are so elaborate that every aspect of the state is covered in our deployments. This is intended to give everybody in the state a renewed sense of security, including those that will be viewing the event from their homes. “I want to state for the umpteenth time, that the state police command will not tolerate, console nor welcome any act that will undermine and/ or compromise the security situation in the state before, during and after the swearing-in programme. “Hence I call on those issuing threats to disrupt and disorganize the event to jettison the idea as quick as possible or prepare to face the full wrath of the law.” The CP stated.