The Managing Director of Miele Nigeria, Mustapha Olorunnimbe, has said that the company which supplies premium domestic and professional range of kitchen, laundry, and floor care appliances is known around the globe for its delivery of world-class satisfaction to its numerous customers. Olorunnimbe, who made this assertion recently at the event marking the strategic partnership between Miele and AFP (a subsidiary of Julius Berger) at Miele showroom in Lagos, said that performance, durability, and aesthetics are the hallmarks of the German household appliances’ manufacturer. He noted that the pursuit of great customer satisfaction has prompted the company to get into a partnership with Julius Berger’s furniture arm, AFP Furniture Production, to deliver a seamless décor outing for prospective customers. According to him, “The object of this partnership is to deliver greater satisfaction to our potential customers who are in search of luxury and sophistication. This collaboration will see the delivery of fit-for-purpose furniture that matches the size and colour of Miele appliances.” While taking the guests on a tour of the showroom, the Managing Director described the showroom as a foretaste of what the company has to offer its prospective customers. “The Lagos showroom, like our Abuja one, is intended to get closer to our customers as well as to show, in practical terms, what we have to offer to our prospective customers – private, corporate or public institutions. The luxury, finesse, and sophistication you see here are what we offer our clients. We customise these offerings to suit the needs and pockets of our customers.” He informed the guests that Miele Nigeria has a wide array of appliances for the kitchen, laundry, the floor, offices, and hospitals which potential customers could choose from. He also informed them that these appliances come at competitive prices as these products are supplied directly from the Miele factory in Germany without going through intermediaries. “We are offering the Miele quality built for more than a century. We are the only manufacturers in our subsector who test our products such as washing machines, tumble dryers, dishwashers, refrigerators, ovens, and cookers – induction, electric and gas – to the equivalent of up to 20 years of use.” Olorunnimbe also noted that the Miele technology, which guarantees efficiency, is another offering that sets the company apart from the rest. According to him, “Miele combines excellent results with the lowest possible energy consumption. This goes for the hygienic and gentle care of your laundry, your flooring, and your crockery as well as when conjuring up exquisite culinary delights.”