Inadequate furniture delayed the start of the National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) at Gbaja Boys Senior High School, Surulere, Lagos last Saturday. The examination scheduled for 11am started about half past 1pm at the Centre because the school lacked enough furniture in all its classrooms. Centre Supervisor, Mr Peter Chukwuma, said it was tough getting enough chairs and desks for the 239 candidates that showed up for the examination. Some classrooms were completely empty of furniture. The school had to improvise by allowing some of the candidates write the examination in a laboratory. The Nation observed a candidate who placed a plank on his lap as table for the examination. “They do not have enough furniture. I spent a lot of time organising even this that we got,”Chukwuma said, showing the reporter a bruise he got from moving furniture around. When the examination was about to start, The Nation observed that some candidates in his centre did not have customised OMR answer sheets. Chukwuma said it was because they registered late or missed their centres. Such candidates were told to answer their questions in the Question Paper booklets and inscribe their registration numbers on the booklets. “We had a few candidates who registered late, so they did not have customised OMR Sheets. They were allowed to answer the questions on their question papers. They would be treated as irregular candidates,” he said. Among the irregular candidates was a particular girl who did not complete her registration before coming to the centre. She was initially denied access to the examination hall despite entreaties by her teacher and her mother. The girl’s mother (who initially posed as her teacher) came afterwards to the Supervisor to assist with her daughter, saying, she did not complete the registration because the examination date clashed with that of Faith Academy. “Her parents asked us to stop registration for the Common Entrance because it was the same day with Faith Academy entrance examination but that was cancelled so we tried to complete this one but couldn’t,” she said. Chukwuma told her that registration for the examination was done 100 per cent online and that all duly registered candidates had registration numbers on their photocards without which they could take the examination. While the examination was ongoing, The Nation learnt from Chukwuma that the girl completed her registration and Chukwuma said he got leave from the State Examination Officer to allow her write the examination. “The girl later wrote the examination because she was able to complete the registration and print out her photo card.  The State Officer was aware of the girl.  While others were on break, she was busy writing. She would be treated as an irregular candidate,” he said. Over 75,000 candidates nationwide registered for the NCEE which is conducted by the National Examinations Council (NECO) for admission into Federal Government Colleges aka Unity Schools. The candidates wrote six subjects. The first four fell under Paper 1: Mathematics and Basic Science and English and Social Studies. While for the Paper B, they wrote Quantitative Aptitude and Verbal Aptitude.