The Swedish based star also promised to paint Poland with goals following his two goals for the Flying Eagles team against Saudi Arabia and VFR Aalen in buildup matches ahead of the U-20 World cup, which will take place in Poland between May 23 and June 15. A product of the Dynamo Football Academy in Lagos, the elegant striker instantly caught the eye of IK Sirius of Sweden in an exhibition match in Lagos Everyone talks about Success Makanjuola and Emeke Chinonso, but this Flying Eagles team also has a talented striker with much sense of responsibility of scoring goals. In Sweden, Henry is regarded as one of the most exciting striking prospects of recent times and has a style reminiscent to that of Eden Harzard. Speaking on his chances of making the Flying Eagles final list to Poland, the Anambra hailed striker said it was the best luck of his career to be part of the final team and ready to deliver goals. “Everybody in the team merited it because we all give our best in trainings and friendlies and it was easy for the coach to decide on to make the list, but the bottom line is that we are choosing to represent Nigeria and write our names in the book of history, and God willing, we are ready to face the world in Poland,” said Henry who has scored two goals for Flying Eagles.  The power-playing striker said his two goals are not fluke and he will be ready to score more goals for the team and whenever he’s given the chance in Poland. “I came to the team to score goals, the coaches have motivated me just like every other players, I am ready to take upon myself the big responsibility I have taking by scoring goals and be part of success. “I work harder to score the two goals and I am working hard to score many goals when the tournament resumes,” he stressed. The giant striker has advised his team to be of good behavior and remain focus in every game. “We need to demonstrate good attitude and be disciplined against our opponents and never underrate any smaller team, by doing that I can we are good to go. “We have big responsibility of making our country proud, Nigeria has good pedigree at this level and we hope to break barriers, the coaches have told us we are good to make the country proud and we are ready. Nigeria meets Qatar, Ukraine and the US in the group stage on May 24, 27 and May 30 before possible playoffs takes place. .