The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) financial inclusion project, backed by the Bankers’ Committee, is getting the support of many commercial banks. FirstBank has, through its XploreFirst Savings Campaign, empowered university undergraduates with cash and scholarship. The campaign is part of the lender’s plan to get more youths into the financial services net and boost students’ knowledge of savings and investment, writes COLLINS NWEZE. THE Central Bank of Nigeria‘s (CBN’s) Bankers’ Committee and commercial banks are taking financial literacy and inclusion of youths in the sector very seriously. CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele has continued to take steps to deepen banking. The hope for Nigeria to achieve 80 per cent financial inclusion rate in next year received a major boost, when the Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA), released its last year’s survey. It showed that 63.6 per cent of the country’s adult population has access to financial services. For FirstBank of Nigeria Limited, now is the time to promote financial inclusion, especially among the youth and at the grassroots. The commercial bank took its financial inclusion and youth empowerment to institutions of higher learning, targeting the students in financial institutions in its XploreFirst Savings Account campaign. In alignment with its financial inclusion drive, FirstBank has completed a campaign for rewarding its youth segment customers for using their FirstBank’s XploreFirst Savings accounts and encouraging healthy savings. The promo, which kicked off last October 1 ended on March 30, this year. XploreFirst account was  designed for students between 18 and 29. A minimum amount of N1,000 is required to open the account and account holders are to maintain a balance of N200. To participate in the promo, XploreFirst customers ware expected to save or maintain a minimum amount of N10,000 in their accounts during the promo to be eligible for the scholarship raffle draw. Incremental deposits of N10,000 in the account entitles the account holder to multiple tickets for the raffle draw. One hundred and eighty winners emerged from the promo with 18 account holders (three from each of the six geo-political zones) being rewarded with scholarships worth N150,000 in a grand finale raffle draw and N5,000 airtime as consolation prizes for 180 account holders. According to the Group Head, Products & Marketing Support, Abiodun Famuyiwa, “FirstBank recognises the impact of a healthy savings culture in promoting financial inclusion among individuals, especially the youth. And with the saying, the youth are the leaders of tomorrow, we believe that with XploreFirst account, the youth are well positioned to take the lead in their financial activities through the exciting benefits the account offers. ‘’So, if you are a student between  18 and 29, take a walk into any FirstBank branch near you to open an XploreFirst account. Start your journey to financial freedom  with Firstbank.” At the final draw of the promo, FirstBank splashed  scholarships worth N2.7 million on 18 customers to boost savings culture and promote financial inclusion among students. The winners were drawn from  the six geopolitical zones and Lagos at the final/grand raffle of XploreFirst promo in Lagos. Some of the scholarship winners include Offiong Michael, Ezugba Chukwuebuka,  Olorunfemi  Oluwatunmise,  Adekale  Adenike and Agbakwuru Dorcas. The winners emerged through an electronic draw handled by Tequila for the bank and supervised by KPMG, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Lagos State Lottery Board and Consumer Protection Commission (CPC). FirstBank  Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Products, Chuma Ezirim, said: “XploreFirst is a FirstBank savings account variant designed specifically for students between 18 and 29 years.” Ezirim said: “Customers are offered yearly scholarships of N150,000 as incentives to maintain a certain amount of deposit, in this case, N10,000 in their account over a 30-day period to qualify for the monthly draws and giveaways. “Customers who would successfully maintain the set balance over the six-month period are eligible to win the jackpot of N150,000, the grand finale prize.” Ezirim noted that the initiative would be sustained by the bank in the future in line with CBN’s financial inclusion mandate. The bank’s Head, Youth/Women Banking Olufemi Odumuboni  said the promo was centered on making people to engage in financial discipline. Odumuboni said winners were selected based on certain principles that made them eligible for the draw. He explained that apart from the N2.7 million set aside for the yearly scholarships that the bank had splashed about N900,000 to customers that emerged winners at the various monthly draws for data purchase for their mobile phones. “Winners from the monthly draw selected from the bank’s six geopolitical zones are entitled to N5,000 each, which they are encouraged to use for data purchase for their mobile phones,” Odumuboni stated. An executive of Consumer Protection Council, Susie Onwuka,  commended the bank for ensuring transparency throughout the promotion process. Onwuka said the bank had deployed modern technology in the promo to eliminate bias, noting that, the agency was happy with the process and the bank. “Promotions should be registered to show transparency and ensure fairness to the consumers,” she stated. Onwuka continued: ‘’As far back as 2008, the bank has been running promos on savings. But this year, it decided to break it down to favour the youth population. This is why we singled out this very product, which is xplore first and customers that open this account open it to this reward scheme. The bank actually has three different account for the youth segment. “We have a special account for zero to 12 years, known as the kids’ first account. “What we hear other players in the industry do is the usually method of rewarding customers. But we try to segment the market and we have come down to this segment which is the youth segment and most are university undergraduates. Our expectation is that this initiative is going to return a lot of impact to the bank, in terms of customer acquisition, customer retention and brand visibility. The bank has done a lot since 2014 in our engagement initiative to come with the understanding that as big as the bank is, first is still nimble. “With over 700 branches, we try to spread this initiative across the six geo-political zones of the country where the bank is. For a political zone, such as Lagos, we have given out five winners, Southwest, we have given out five, we have gone to Northcentral and we have given out five and at Southsouth, we have gone out five. Therefore, with five winners emerging from the six geo-political zones, that is 30 winners. Of course, for the next six months, this is what the bank will continue to do. The promo will end in a grand finale draw that will enable winners to get N150,000.” Famuyiwa noted that the bank believes in investing in the youth segment of the market, adding that youths are the hope of the country; therefore, the bank has devised a platform where they would interact with them. He noted that the focus of the bank in the promo is to have more youths in its database, adding that traditionally, some people see FirstBank as the bank for the old people. Famuyiwa expressed confidence that the bank is committed to having youths opening accounts with them and fill the bank “because FirstBank is a youth-friendly bank, and we have so many products focused on the youth”. He noted that the promo had been ongoing for years, and that this was the first of the sessions, noting that it would run for six months. “This is the first month, out of the six months. In December, we followed at the qualifying candidates.” According to Famuyiwa, “As a bank, they believe in investing in the youth segment of the market because we believe that they are the hope of the nation.’’ He noted that the bank has devised a platform for organising the programme to have more youths. “Traditionally, people see First Bank as an old bank for the old people. When we looked at our database, we realised that have more many youths than the other banks. We are not there yet; we still want to have more of them. We want to have many of these youths opening accounts with us, and be able to fill the bank because first bank is a youth-friendly bank, because we have so many products on youths. We have a drive towards digitalisa-tion in the bank,” the bank said. 