Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has given a seven-day ultimatum to local government administrators, traditional rulers and Kogi Security Adviser to fish out culprits of the recent killings in some parts of the state or risk losing their jobs. Bello gave the ultimatum at a stakeholders meeting on security held in Government House, Lokoja, on Wednesday. The meeting was part of efforts to unravel the root causes of recent killings in the state and proffer lasting solutions. ”We must set good examples. If you are failing in your primary responsibilities of protecting the lives and property of your immediate communities, then there is an issue for concern. “You have seven days to coordinate, fish out these culprits from wherever they are hidden in your domains or I strip every one of you, whose communities are affected, of your jobs,” the governor said. Bello added: “For those who think they can be used to cause mayhem in our state, we shall fish every one of you out. We will bring you out to face the full wrath of the law.” He stressed that Kogi was known for peace, adding that his government had given its best to ensure that peace and tranquility was maintained. The governor reassured the people of the state of his administration’s commitment to continue to work in synergy with security agencies to ensure safety that would attract investors to the state. He added that his government had been tactical and strategic about the issue of security, noting that he who “seeks equity must come with clean hands”. Bello, however, apologized to the families of the affected victims while appealing to them to remain peaceful. “I urge you to forgive. Do not take laws into your hands through reprisal attacks,” he pleaded. Earlier, the State Security Adviser, Mr Jerry Omodara, had warned the citizens to stop taking laws into their hands as anyone found wanting would be prosecuted. The Secretary of Miyetti Allah Association in Yagba West, Mohammed Mainasara, in his speech, claimed that 11 Fulani residents in the council were killed without provocation. In their separate remarks, Commander, Army Records, Maj.-Gen. Elvis Njoku, and Kogi Police Commissioner, Hakeem Busari, promised their agencies commitment toward ensuring tnat normalcy was restored to those communities, adding that some arrests had been made. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the meeting drew traditional rulers, security officials, Fulani herdsmen and administrators of the 21 local government areas in Kogi.  NAN 