The Chairman and Lead Consultant of TPT International, Mr Adetokunbo Modupe, has explained that disruptive innovation is the critical life support that will define the future of Public Relations (PR) practice in Nigeria. Modupe,who spoke on the theme: Digital disruption and the future of public relations practice, at the 2019 edition of Brandcommfest in Onikan, Lagos, explained that disruptive innovation is like a virus which  gradually develops but eventually will redefine ways of doing things. ”An example is how the internet as a disruptive innovation has caused the remodelling of the book selling industry. All the big book selling chains market share have been swallowed by Amazon because even without having to own brick and mortar stores, it can display its inventory.  In no distant time, the future would be service driven and no one will own anything. Material possession will have little significance in the global market”. This future of public relation practice, he noted, would be anchored on culture, concept and content. ”With the cultural adjustment and alignment, comes the challenge of idea generation. What will differentiate successful practitioners will definitely be how big and compelling your ideas are. If your agency is known for great ideas you will remain relevant” he said. Explaining that the substantial part of PR business is storytelling – creating content, managing content and leveraging content, Modupe stressed that the world has moved from traditional media to new media. “Until recent times, content consumption was predictably from established media platforms. But not anymore as the number of smart phone users may equal the number of publishers. What will determine who and how your content is received is the content itself, he said. The event also featured a panel discussion of seasoned practitioners such as Uche Ajene, Managing Consultant, Quadrant MSL; AmaechiOkobi, Group Head, Corporate Communication, Access Bank and BolajiOkusaga, Managing Director, Precise Communication. Others include Ayeni Adekunle, Founder, BHM; Adebola Wiliams, CEO, Red Media and O’tegaOgra, Group Head, Corporate Communications, BUA Group. The panellist submitted that strategic innovation holds the key to the future of PR and marketing communication industry in Nigeria and enjoined practitioners to brazen up for the challenges of the ever changing world.