Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has banned the use of motorcycles along routes in Kano forests to block any spillover of security threats from neighbouring states of Zamfara, Kaduna, Katsina and Sokoto. Ganduje promised to use the upgraded Emirates in the state to improve and consolidate the prevailing security situation in the state. He stated this during the security awareness seminar (Phase 1) with the theme, “join us in securing Kano State” in Karaye Emirate Council aimed at improving security situation in the area. Ganduje said: “We upgraded the new Emirates in order to have even development in the state. “I said our security situation will improve, people will have access to health care delivery system. Our education system will improve, among others. “The awareness seminar was organised as a proactive measure to improve the security of the land and proffer ways to effectively checkmate any security threat. “We are aware of what is happening in states like Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and Kaduna, something that we cannot hope to escalate or happen in our state or any other states “Food insecurity in those states is in the increase because farmers can no longer go to farms. In some places, residences were burnt down and many people lost their families,” he lamented. He further stated: “Kano borders some of these states, and when those armed bandits and other hoodlums were chased out of those states, their next option could be Kano as hinted by the security agencies. “As a proactive measure, we have to evolve strategies for facing such potential situation head on,” he said. “We are joining hands together with our traditional institutions and all security agencies, because we need to face the situation squarely. “We also need to encourage synergy of purpose and action against insecurity. That is why we thought it is imperative to effectively include our Emirs.” The governor directed all the District Heads to be meeting on monthly basis and assess the security situation within their domains. Responding to some concerns about the forests in the state, he said plan is on the pipeline for taking a stock of people living in those forests, to know who and who live within those forests. He added: “We have since spoken with the Islamic Development Bank and federal government of Nigeria that we are going to have modern grazing reserves for our herders. “We ban the use of motorcycles in our forests, because we learned that armed bandits and other criminals use motorcycles in perpetuating their heinous activities. “The ban will be for some time. So, those good people living in these areas should please bear with the situation, as it is temporary.” 