Nasarawa State governor, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura has requested for more time from Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) within which to compile and provide details on the spending by the State on security votes. The governor’s response was sequel to the request of SERAP sent last month to him and 35 other state governors and President Muhammadu Buhari, asking them to: “provide information on specific details of spending of appropriated public funds as security votes between 2011 and 2019, given the current security realities in the country” under the Freedom of Information (FoI) Act. SERAP had requested them to provide the information within seven days of receipt of its letter failure of which then organisation threatened legal action against them. Responding, SERAP deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare.said in a statement issued yesterday that Al-Makura asked for more days from the organisation saying that it would require more than seven days to process the information being requested for and which covers a period of eight years. SERAP said the response of the governor was contained in a letter, reference number NS/MOJ/ADM/108/VOL1/65,  sent the organisation on his behalf the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. The letter read in part: “I refer to your letter dated  April 12, 2019 requesting information on the spending of security votes by Nasarawa State between 2011 to date. I am directed to draw your attention to the fact that the information being requested covers a period of eight years and will require more than 7 days to process. We shall revert to you as soon as the information is ready.” Responding, SERAP expressed commitment to disclose details of security votes spending by the State. SERAP urged the governor to fast-track the process to ensure that the information is sent before the expiration of his tenure on May 29, noting, “this would be a perfect parting gift to the people of Nasarawa, and show the way for 35 other state governors and the federal government that have failed, so far, to respond to the FOI requests on security votes spending.” SERAP’s response dated  May 17, 2019, further stated in part: “In light of your request, SERAP is happy to extend the period within which to provide the requested information. We would be grateful if the information is now provided to us within seven days of the receipt and/or publication of this response, failing which SERAP shall take all appropriate legal action to compel Nasarawa state to comply with our request.” It would be recalled that SERAP in April sent separate FOI requests to 36 state governors and Mr Buhari, stating that: “We need the information to determine if public funds meant to provide security and ensure respect and protection of the rights to life, physical integrity, and liberty of Nigerians have been spent for this purpose. Our request is limited to details of visible, specific security measures and projects executed and does not include spending on intelligence operations.” The organization had expressed concern that rather than serving the citizens,  “the appropriation of public funds as security votes over the years would seem to serve high-ranking government officials at all levels—federal and states. It also expressed its concern that the practice of security votes entrusts discretionary powers to spend huge public funds on certain elected public officials who may not have any idea of operational issues on security matters.” SERAP urged the governor  to open-up on the matter and provide information and documents as requested. “This will be one step in the right direction. Unless the information is urgently provided, Nigerians would continue to see the appropriation of public funds as security votes and the institutionalization of this cash in ‘Ghana Must Go bags’ practice as a tool for self-enrichment. “SERAP believes that by providing the information, your government would help put an end to any insinuation that security votes are spent on political activities, mismanaged or stolen. This would in turn contribute to better opportunities for citizens to assess the level of spending and commitment of successive governments to ensuring the security of lives and property of the people”, the organization stated.