The Southwest chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has congratulated Dr Fayemi for his victory in the Wednesday election for the chairmanship of Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Fayemi won the contest to lead the forum of the 36 governors for the next four years. A statement in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, by the region’s APC spokesman Karounwi Oladapo said Fayemi’s victory demonstrated the nationwide acceptance of the Ekiti State governor as a bridge-builder among his colleagues and a general acknowledgement that he presents a hope as a unifying factor in a bitterly divisive polity. The statement also acknowledged him as having the capacity to shape the nation’s destiny for good among the new breed of emerging leaders in Nigeria. It said: “Governor Fayemi’s victory in the contest for this sensitive position is an acknowledgement of his brilliance, respect for his leadership qualities and capacity as a man with a clear vision for a greater Nigeria. “It is also an acknowledgement of the mass appeal and acceptance he enjoys among his colleagues across party lines. “Fayemi, in his first term as the governor of Ekiti State, recorded several landmarks in the state development’s history. “Four years after leaving office, his accomplishments remain evergreen in the state’s growth index, which he topped with record-breaking exploits in the nation’s mining and solid mineral industry as the Minister for Mines and Steel Development when he took the sector from zero level to become one of the biggest revenue earners for the nation.” Noting that Fayemi’s success in the Mining sector marked his ingenuity in tackling tough challenges, the Southwest APC said it was confident that the governor would also deploy his “brilliance and creative energies” to re-engineer the governors’ forum for better productivity and cultivate a new spirit of understanding among the governors for better performance for the good of all Nigerians. “The APC in the Southwest can vouch that Fayemi, as one of the emerging African stars in governance, will unleash his creative spirit and resilient energies to create new frontiers in modern governance and set a fresh template in representative democracy not just for Nigeria but also for the benefit of the Black race,” the statement said. He added that Fayemi would replicate the Southwest’s economic integration strategy he led in the zone at the national level for the benefit of all Nigerians. Southwest APC said: “It is on record that Fayemi introduced social security for the vulnerable in Ekiti State in 2010, which is today being replicated at the Federal level in form of social investment programmes for the benefit of all Nigerians. “It is hoped that his colleagues across party lines will key into these initiatives for the benefit of their people.” 