The tribunal judgment nullifying the victory of Osun state Governor Gboyega Oyetola collapsed like a pack of cards yesterday. Truth became the caterpillar for bulldozing the heap of falsehood. The Appeal Court lived to its billing as a superior temple of justice. It resolved 10 of 12 issues before it in favour of Oyetola, his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Justice Jummai Sanky said Oyetola won the governorship election. The judgment rekindled the hope of the masses who voted in the Osun election in the top echelon of the judiciary as the ultimate saviour of democracy. Following the verdict, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) challenger, Senator Ademola Adeleke, regressed into gnashing of teeth. His counsel and party  – the PDP – indicated that the battle was not over, hinting that the verdict will be appealed at the Supreme Court. Oyetola, Osun State APC and the electoral umpire rejected the verdict of the lower tribunal. Oyetola claimed that victory was allotted to the loser without considering the facts of the case. APC cried foul, saying that it was shortchanged. INEC maintained that it organised free, fair and credible governorship election. While the PDP and its flag bearer, Senator Adeleke, went to town to celebrate transient judicial window dressing, APC, INEC and the governor were locked in sober reflection. If the Osun State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal were to be the final arbiter, injustice would have triumphed over justice. To the consternation of the governor’s counsel, the judge who wrote the tribunal’s lead judgment only participated in the tribunal proceedings by proxy. He was an absentee jurist who could not take cognizance of failed expressions or non-verbal cues of witnesses. However, the bone of contention at the Appeal Court was whether INEC had the right to organise a supplementary governorship election, when the poll, conducted on September 22, became inconclusive. By implication, the court was to decide the legality of the September 27 make-up poll. Instructively, the polls of September 22 and 27 were neither marred by malpractices or violence. The PDP candidate was only beating about the bush and whipping up sentiment about the authenticity of the actual results. Adeleke failed to tender any results before the tribunal. Yet, the tribunal decided to annul results from 17 polling units, thereby creating chaos. To the PDP candidate, the polls were unlawful and void. Yet, he prayed the tribunal to declare him winner of an electoral mess he created in his wildest imagination. In the submission of Wole Olanipekun (SAN), counsel to Oyetola, the tribunal assumed an inexplicable jurisdiction to reframe, amend and formulate reliefs for petitioners. Also, the “Mathematical Tribunal” indulged in deduction of votes from the actual results to arrive at its shakky decision. Despite the fulfillment of accreditation criterion and the glaring absence of over-voting, the results were still voided. It meant that the tribunal annulled an election that did not violate the Electoral Act. However, there was a dissenting judgment by Justice Ita Mbaba. It was a minority judgment against the verdict of two judges in a three-man Appeal Court panel. If Adeleke goes to the Supreme Court, it is expected that the appeal will be resolved within 60 days. Indisputably, the judgment of the Supreme Court will be the final. 