•Bode Ola, APC chieftain, Rep-elect hail governor The Ekiti State chapter of the Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation, Egbe Afenifere Ilosiwaju Yoruba, has congratulated Governor Kayode Fayemi on his victory as the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF). The organisation said Fayemi’s victory indicates that Nigeria is itching to its rebirth where quality leadership will become prevalent over ethnic, religious or partisan political arrangement. A statement yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, by the group’s spokesman Chief Akin Fasae said Fayemi’s quality experience as a former minister, governor and policy experts would be more useful in navigating the affairs of the forum for the overall development of the nation. The Ekiti governor was on Wednesday night elected by the 36 governors to superintend of the forum’s affairs for the next four years. He succeeds outgoing Zamfara State Governor Abdulazis Yari. Also, former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose yesterday congratulated Fayemi on his election victory. A statement by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, said Fayemi’s victory as NGF Chairman was well deserved to him and the people of Ekiti State. He said: “I congratulate Governor Fayemi on his appointment and elevation as Chairman of the NGF. “It is well deserved for you and the entire people of Ekiti. Politics will come and go, but Ekiti State will remain eternal. “Once again, you have my best wishes.” Also, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Dr Olusegun Osinkolu, advised Fayemi to use his highly influential status to ensure equity and justice in the distribution of the nation’s wealth. Osinkolu, who described the feat as record-breaking to reshape the politics of the country, urged Fayemi to bring his administrative ingenuity as well as shrewd and political wizardry to ensure that Nigerians feel the positive impact of his new position. A House of Representatives member-elect for Ekiti South II, Femi Bamisile, said Fayemi is not only competent to lead the forum, especially at this crucial period of Nigeria’s national life, but would use his victory to also serve as a catalyst for national unity and progress. The lawmaker-elect noted that with the governor’s new position, there would be more development, especially federal presence, to Ekiti State, the Southwest and all the states in the federation due to his closeness to the Presidency. Also, a governorship aspirant in last year’s APC primary, Kayode Ojo, urged Fayemi to use his influence to direct the psyche of the governors to projects that will stimulate growth, reduce poverty and unemployment in the country. Ojo said it would be necessary for the governor to strengthen the peer review mechanism in the forum and use his network to expose his colleagues to modern governance that will translate to positive impacts on the lives of the citizens. A former Federal lawmaker who represented Ekiti Central between 2010 and 2011, Senator Bode Ola, described Fayemi’s victory as a recognition of his sterling qualities as a leader. Senator Ola said Ekiti State residents are fortunate to produce the NGF chairman, acknowledging that the governor would bring quality leadership to the forum. He urged other governors to support Fayemi to ensure that Nigerians enjoy dividends of democracy. 