The recent population outburst has raised an alarm and called for the need of population control. One of the ways to do that is to indulge in family planning. However, many families shy away from family planning basing their decision solely on fear.  Nevertheless, family planning goes a long way in helping both the family and society at large. ·       It gives women variety of choices When a woman chooses if and when to get pregnant, it has a direct impact on her health and well-being. Family planning permits pregnancies to be spaced. It can also prevent health risks and problems of death from early childbearing. It prevents unintended pregnancies, including those of older women who are done with child bearing. Family planning enables women who wish to limit the size of their families to do so as studies show that women who have more than 4 children are at an increased risk of maternal mortality. ·       Reduces infant mortality Family planning helps avoid closely spaced and ill-timed pregnancies and births. This helps reduce high infant mortality rate which is usually caused by poor spacing and bad timing. Helps to prevent HIV/AIDS By extension, family planning reduces the risk of unintended pregnancies among women living with HIV. This will lead to fewer infected babies and orphans. In addition, male and female condoms provide protection against Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) and unintended pregnancies. Empowers people and enhances education It also empowers people to make informed choices about their sexual and reproductive health. Women can in addition, pursue education, gain employment and be more active in the society. Allows for investment in children Having smaller families with appropriate spacing allows parents to invest more in each child. It will enable financial capabilities to take care of the children. Slows population growth Family planning is key to slowing the population outburst Nigeria is currently facing. As a result, it will reduce the negative impacts of overpopulation on the economy, environment, and national and regional development efforts. 