After their graduation, products of Usmanu Dan Fodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) wait for months before collecting their statement of results. This has dimmed the hopes of many, especially those desirous of using their results for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) mobilisation and other opportunities. ABIODUN JAMIU, 200-Level Political Science, reports. When Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) management in February pasted the list of 33 students of Microbiology Department, whose statement of results were ready, on the notice board, the affected students were overwhelmed with joy. Their results were delayed. But Naziru Abubakar and 122  others  from the same department were not so lucky. Their case is peculiar. They were said to have graduated, but not certified! This, according to them, sounded vague. But in local parlance, they are graduates without certificates or statement of results. Having painstakingly waited for another list of names to be pasted, months after the first batch of 33 names were mobilised for mandatory National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), they feared that their hope and future appeared hazy. Their waiting seemed endless. The tradition in UDUS is that a graduating student must have collected his or her statement of result before being mobilised for NYSC. But cases now abound of graduates spending months long after they had been cleared without collecting their statement of results. This development, CAMPUSLIFE learned, has dashed the hopes of many graduates desirous of going for their mandatory service and finishing in record time. It has also made some to miss employment opportunities and overseas studies, among others, which often require their statement of results or certificate. “It is unfortunate that more than two months after our department issued the first batch of the statement of results, ours are yet to be ready,” lamented Naziru Despite series of meetings with Mallam Auwal Gambo, who is their department’s examination officer, Naziru and other victims were told that their results were still being processed. They were, therefore, implored to exercise patience.  Frustrated, Naziru told CAMPUSLIFE that he was left with no other option than to return to Kebbi, his state of origin after months of waiting. “I have contacted the examination officer of our department and two other lecturers, but their responses are always similar. They told me that we should exercise patience. They would say, ‘only Allah knows because I can’t predict what would happen tomorrow or the day after. I will only advise you to exercise patience and pray’. Therefore, I had to returned home,” Naziru added. Naziru recounted how he lost series of employment opportunities as he could not provide his potential employers proof that he actually graduated. “This is the most painful. Apart from missing NYSC, I have missed more than three jobs in the public service and another in a private company,” he said. He continued: “I cried for missing those rare opportunities because I know how competitive the labour market is. The people that provided the offer required my statement of result as a proof that I am a graduate. “What exactly is the problem?” thundered Ibrahim Abdullah Dalhatu, another graduate of Microbiology. “I have an iota of doubt if the delay is from the school management. A significant number of students from nearly all the departments have collected their statement of results in due time; that shows how committed the management is. However, if only a few number of departments failed to have their students’ results ready, this then is questionable,” he said. Ibrahim recounted how  he could not meet up with the deadline for a post graduate scholarship programme he once applied for due to the delay. “I missed an M.Sc scholarship because I have no result at hand. I have been telling my friends’ relatives that  I’ve graduated, but unfortunately some did not believe me because I have no proof,” he said. Another graduate, who declined to be identified for fear of being victimised, bemoaned the recurring delayed of results in UDUS. She identified lack of enough manpower as a major factor militating against prompt release of results in the institution. “The system is not only slow, but totally inert,” noted the source. “We finished examinations in August (last year) but at the departmental level, results were not released until November.  Some have to wait till February when the strike (by the Academic Staff Union of Universities) was suspended. Honestly, there is the need for adequate staffing in the department (of Microbiology) and the entire school to ensure that results are promptly released,” the source said. Like Naziru, she also narrated her repeated visits to the department only to be asked to exercise patience. And like Dalhatu, the source said some of her relatives are beginning to doubt her studentship. Another victim, Nafi’u Yahuza, who graduated from the Department of Computer Science, expressed dissatisfaction on how delayed results have been a recurring decimal in the institution. He lamented that the situation has rendered him idle. He said: “I am disappointed with how the school management is handling this issue. Had it been I have been given my statement, I should be serving my dear country. Instead, I am here stuck at home.” Sanusi Malami, who is another victim from the Department of Microbiology, had hoped to apply for a Master’s programme, but for the delay in the release of his result. Malami is urging UDUS management to consolidate on its deployment of technology to address the perennial challenge. Nevertheless, the issue of delayed  release of students’ results has gone beyond the affected graduates. CAMPUSLIFE authoritatively gathered that first semester results of students are often delayed until mid-second semester or sometimes second semester break. Lawal Sofiyat, a 300-Physics undergraduate, equally kicked against the delay, noting that the delay often makes students indecisive on course registration. “To me, the delay is (done by management) to instill fear in the mind of students. Imagine a second semester results released almost  mid semester of another academic year. This single act alone makes students to delay their course registration because they are not sure of the outcome of the last examination they did” Yunus Olaitain, also a 300-Level student of Fisheries, explained how the delay cost him an undergraduate scholarship programme because he could not provide his cumulative grade point average (CGPA) slip when he was in his second year. He added that students often miss scholarship opportunities due to management’s history of delaying results”. “I was unable to complete my registration for a Total (Oil) scholarship because I was waiting for my GP slip, which would only be given once all the results have been released. I could not beat the deadline for the registration due to the delay,” Olaitan regretted. Corroborating Olaitan’s claim, Bashir Abdulrahman, a 200-Level Civil Engineering undergraduate, recalled with regrets how he missed the Agbami Undergraduate Scholarship Programme, which was announced early 2018/2019 academic session due to the late release of his results. “It does not only apply to final year students” Abdulrahman snapped, “most of our departmental results are often released at will. Just like the Agbami, I was unable to apply for the “PDTF” likewise, due to the same situation.” Abdulrahman suggested that the school management could help ameliorate the travails students go through by handing down a deadline to departments and penalising anyone who goes wrong.  Management’s response Head of Department, Microbiology, Dr Abdullahi Bako Rabah, told CAMPUSLIFE that the department does not issue statement of results to deserving graduates, but only forward same to the university’s (Academic Division) for approval. He said: “It is not our duty to issue results. Ours is to collate and send to the management for vetting, which we have done. It is only when the results need some corrections that they may be sent back to the department for moderations. If the results were okay, they would not be sent to the department, but to the vice chancellor for his approval.” He continued: “As far as the department is concerned, we have done our responsibility. If there is any delay in the release of the results, it is from the Academic Division (of UDUS).” Rabah added that the delayed results were those sent back to the department for corrections, adding that they had since been rectified, and would be ready soon. “Immediately after (ASUU) strike, there were calls for results submission by the Academic Division. Those submitted were the first set of students that got their statement. But those having hiccups were sent back to the department,” he said. When contacted, Dean ,Students’ Affairs, Prof. Aminu Mode, declined comments, but directed CAMPUSLIFE correspondent to the office of the Head, Examinations and Registrations, Dr Ibrahim Magawatta, who regretted that the delay was due to the workload of the just concluded convocation ceremony, which kept the vice chancellor and other top principal officers of the university busy. He, therefore, assured that the statements would be released soon. “The vice chancellor was too busy during the convocation week. Therefore, he could not sign anything. There are over 100 students from the department of (Microbiology), but we have signed everything here and it will be issue very soon,” he said.