Activists, under the aegis of Transparency Network Initiative (TNI), have urged Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President Ayuba Wabba to apologise to the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, for allegedly maligning his impeccable character. A statement yesterday in Abuja, the nation’s capital, by its National President Issa Farouk and Secretary Abdul Umar Gange accused Wabba of publishing false and malicious allegations against Ngige to allegedly blackmail, intimidate and weaken his authority in running the affairs of his ministry and corporation under the ministries. They especially pointed at the appointment of the chairman of the Board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). The statement reads: “We recall that Ayuba had, on April 18, disrupted the inauguration of the board of the NSITF with a renowned chartered accountant, Insurance and Taxation expert, Mr. Austin Isire, as chairman. He insisted on Frank Kokori or no other. “Ayuba has since taken the campaign of pillory against the minister notches higher with the ignominious outing at the Workers’ Day rally where he castigated the minister and invariably challenged the powers of the President before an international audience at the Eagle Square in Abuja. “But Nigerians need to know that Section 4(a) of the NSITF Act 2004 states that the chairman of the board shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour and Employment. “In doing this, the minister is expected to nominate a neutral, fit and proper person in the spirit of tripartite; that is, someone who is neither pro-labour unions, the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), an umbrella body representing private sector manufacturers, nor the government, as it was the case during the recently concluded national  minimum wage negotiation, where in the spirit of tripartite, a neutral, fit and proper person was appointed by the President to chair the committee. “While Comrade Wabba has run to the press with pervasive blackmail, accusing Senator Ngige of sitting on the so-called appointment of Comrade Kokori, he has disingenuously hidden from the public that the minister did not at any time recommend and forward Kokori’s name to the President, as required by law, and could not have done so since Kokori belongs to the labour arm of the tripartite, which already has its two statutorily nominees on the board, hence not a neutral person.”