The Kano State Government yesterday conducted mass wedding for 1,500 couples The wedding prayer, which was conducted by the Chief Imam of Kano, Prof. Sani Zahradeen, was presided over by the Emir of Kano,  Muhammadu Sanusi II and Governor Abdullahi Ganduje at the Kano Central Mosque. Governor Ganduje said the state spent over N300 million in providing furniture and payment of Dowry for the groom’s. He said the gesture was targeted at alleviating the sufferings of the populace. Ganduje said the gesture was further aimed at reducing the problems associated with the high number of unmarried youths in the state. The governor urged the new couples to uphold the trust reposed in them by the state government. He also appealed to wealthy individuals to complement the efforts of the state government. Ganduje said the couples were selected and screened from each of the 44 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. “The beneficiaries were selected from each of the 44 LGAs of the state by the committee shouldered with the responsibilities of selecting and screening eligible beneficiaries,’’ he said. He noted that more than N300 million was spent by the state government to sponsor the weddings, including the provision of complete sets of beds, side mirrors, wardrobes and mattresses that would all be provided, to each couple. Ganduje said that the state government would pay N20,000 dowry for the couples and N10,000 as start-up capital to each bride. He said that medical tests, including HIV/AIDS test, were conducted on the couples in order to ascertain their genuine health status before the marriage. The Emir of Kano, Mohammad Sunusi II enjoined the couples to always respect the bond of marriage. He implored them to live a life full of love and happiness. The Emir said the emirate had constituted a committee of Ulama who have designed a married law, aimed at curtailing the challenge of frequent brake up of marriages. The Emir of Kano stated that the proposed family law would soon be submitted to the state government for the next line of action He commended the state government for the gesture. The Emir also decried the prevalence of obnoxious traditions, preventing some youths from getting married. He urged them to uphold the trust and confidences reposed in them and try and live in line with the Islamic injunctions.ý The Emir also urged the grooms to treat their wives kindly and ýreminded them that Islam forbade beating or abusing marriage partners. Musbahu Danjuma and Sabiu Abdullahi, who were among the new couples, hailed Ganduje’s gesture and promise to respect the marriage through adequate care of