PBS Distribution in an effort to reach more children has partnered with MultiChoice Africa to bring high-quality educational children’s content to the DStv and GOtv platforms available in all of sub-Saharan Africa. The new package which kicked-off on May 22, 2019, will have active DStv customers as well as GOtv Max and GOtv Plus customers enjoy Pinkalicious and Wordworld, Arthur and other well-known PBS KIDS series available on their decoder. “MultiChoice is always open to exploring ways to expand our customer offering, adding a children’s channel that is not only entertaining but also experiential and educational adds value to our DStv and GOtv packages,” says Martin Mabutho, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria. Andrea Downing, Co-President of PBS Distribution, added: “We are excited to offer this new audience the opportunities that PBS KIDS content offers.  PBS KIDS is the number one educational media brand for kids, offering children the opportunity to explore new ideas and new worlds. DStv and GOtv are inviting parents and children to experience this trusted content that helps children learn and grow.” Peterrific based on the beloved book series by Victoria Kann. It encourages children to engage in self-expression and to explore the arts, including music, dance, and visual arts. Kids will be inspired to get creative by Pinkalicious, Peter, and their friends through adventures in their neighborhood of Pinkville Arthur is based on the best-selling children’s books by Marc Brown and follows the adventures of eight-year-old Arthur Read, while WordWorld, through the lovable WordFriends, take children on adventures in a world of words where they encounter problems that can only be solved by building a word. It playfully demonstrates the connections between letters, sounds, words and meanings to empower children to advance from learning letters to learning how to read. PBS KIDS will also feature episodes from Postcards from Buster, Peep and The Big Wide World and Time Warp Trio.