SINGER and songwriter Tiwa Savage has signed an exclusive global recording agreement with Universal Music Group (UMG). By this deal, Tiwa’s future music will be released via UMG, which operates in more than 60 countries. “My biggest goal is to make Africa proud,” Tiwa said, commenting on the deal. “I’m so excited for this moment and I’m thankful to Sir Lucian Grainge and my new UMG family for their belief in my dreams. I’m looking forward to this next chapter in my career and I’m more ready than I have ever been.” The projects will be executively produced by Efe Ogbeni of Regime Music Societe and Vannessa Amadi-Ogbonna. Tiwa who was born in Lagos studied professional music on scholarship at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts before embarking on her music career. In 2018, Tiwa made history as the first female to be crowned Best African Act by the MTV European Music Awards. In the same year, she also became the first African female to sell out London’s IndigO2. In December, Tiwa was handpicked by Coldplay’s lead singer Chris Martin to perform alongside Beyonce, Ed Sheeran and Jay Z live at the Global Citizen Festival in Johannesburg to a 70,000 strong audience to celebrate the centenary of Nelson Mandela’s birth.Tiwa has performed around the world, including a notable performance at Jay Z’s Made In America festival in Philadelphia in 2017. Named one of the world’s Top 100 Inspirational Women in Fashion by Vogue US, Tiwa was later featured in British Vogue’s December 2018 issue as one of 10 women that are changing the face of music globally. Tiwa has been active in her philanthropic endeavours, supporting various youth engagement organisations and breast cancer screening projects. Through her work with MTV’s Shuga, Tiwa shared knowledge of HIV/ AIDS prevention and awareness within the continent. Tiwa has also represented top brands like Pepsi, Nike, MegaGrowth Hair, MTN and Star Beer. And throughout summer 2019, Tiwa will play a string of international festivals including the UK’s Wireless Festival, Afropunk in Paris and Oh My! Festival in Amsterdam. Adam Granite, EVP Market Development, Universal Music Group said, “We are looking forward to partnering with Tiwa and her team to help her music reach new audiences around the world. As one of Africa’s most successful, influential and dynamic singer-songwriters, Tiwa has truly global ambitions and UMG is committed to help her in achieving them.” Efe Ogbeni and Vannessa Amadi-Ogbonna of Stealth Management said, “We’re very proud to be a part of this ground-breaking partnership between Tiwa Savage and Universal Music Group.”