The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is collaborating with stakeholders to review the National Contingency Plan (NCP) to mitigate the impact of disasters. Its Director-General Alhaji Mustapha Maihaja spoke at a workshop on ‘Experts technical workshop on disasters risk management implication of NiMET’s Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP)’ in Abuja. Maihaja, represented by the NEMA’s Director, Search and Rescue, Air Commodore AkugbeIyamu, said the review  would save lives. According to him, stakeholders could also use the plan for organisational preparedness. He said the impact of disasters on lives, properties and environment depends on the country’s level of preparedness, which relies on efficient early warning systems. The DG commended the NiMet and Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) for their consistency in releasing weather-related information, including SRP, Flood Outlook and other weather monitoring bulletin. Maihaja said the release of the SRP would serve as a tool sagainst hazards. “In 2018, NiMet and NIHSA released weather and hydrological information for the country, especially on the possibility of flooding in certain locations, upon which NEMA and other stakeholders acted on. “Consequently, the flood affected some parts of the country, which led to the declaration of national disaster in 12 states by the agency. “The flood affected 129 local government areas and a total of 2,321,592 people. In all, 199 deaths were recorded, while 4,107 people were injured and resulting in over 600,000 Internally Displaced Persons. “The damages to property and agriculture land were also massive as over 100,190 houses were damaged and 382,368 agriculture crop lands were destroyed. “The flood also affected water, sanitation and hygiene facilities of the people,” Maihaja said. He assured that NEMA would collaborate with relevant stakeholders to put together in a simplified manner, the disaster risk management implication for the 2019 SRP. According to him, the reports at the end of the workshop will provide information on disaster management implications on agriculture, water resources, health and infrastructure. Maihaja expressed optimism that the workshop would proffer recommendations to cushion anticipated effects of the predictions. “This document, when produced, will be disseminated to all the relevant stakeholders to prompt them to take the necessary actions required, to facilitate disasters risk reduction, in their areas of jurisdictions.” Mr. Kayode Fagbemi, Director, Planning, Research and Forecasting of NEMA, said the agency would map vulnerable communities based on the prediction as indicated by climate risk monitoring agencies. This, according to Fagbemi, would enhance and direct enlightenment campaign in critical states.