The man, who instituted the suit that sought to stop the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila from contesting the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives in the 9th National Assembly, Philip Undie has explained his decision to withdraw the suit. Undie, in a letter to his lawyer, Ayodele Justice said his decision to direct the withdrawal of the suit, filed before the Federal High Court, Abuja, because he was now better informed about the issues raised in the suit. The plaintiff had, in the suit, claimed that Gbajabiamila was not qualified to contest for the leadership of the House of Reps because of his alleged conviction by the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia in the United States of America in 2007 for fraud and dishonesty. In his letter dated May 27, 2019 and addressed to his lawyer’s law firm, Legion of Legal Consults, Undie said learnt that Gbajabiamila has been cleared of criminal conviction in the State of Georgia in the US. Undie added that he directed the withdrawal of the suit,marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/539/2019, because he found that a Federal High Court in Abuja, had on May 22, 2018, made an order in favour of Gbajabiamila in a similar suit. The letter read, “I am writing to notify you of my intention to withdraw from the above referenced legal suit wherein I sought the disqualification of the 1st defendant (Gbajabiamila) from contesting the office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “It is important that I honourably discontinue the suit following the emergence of more facts indicating that the 1st defendant, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila was cleared of criminal conviction in the State of Georgia or any other part of the United States of America in a letter dated August 20, 2010. “I am also in the possession of an order of the Federal High Court, Abuja, dated May 22, 2018, delivered by Justice Abdu-Kafarati in favour of Femi Gbajabiamila. “Kindly avail me details of my legal fees in accordance with our earlier agreement,” Undie said. Details shortly…