Amid low turnout of workers that almost marred the 2019 edition of May Day celebration in Ogun State, out – going Governor Ibikunle Amosun cleared all outstanding deductions owed the workers and also paid their April salary. Amosun also announced that new set of staff (about 1000 of them) have been recruited into the state workforce, just less than 30 days to leave office. The May Day celebration was without the usual enthusiasm in Ogun, and MKO stadium, Kuto, Abeokuta,  was scanty and looked pathetic unlike what obtained in the past as more of the workers  shunned the May Day celebration while the few that turned – up, wore forlorn and mournful look. It was not until  the Governor mounted the dais and assured them that by tomorrow (Thursday), he would pay N10.1bn outstanding deductions and also settle all salaries totaling N10.1bn to the workers, that a modicum of enthusiasm could be elicited from some them. Others remained largely unmoved and skeptical. One of the workers, who pleaded anonymity, told The Nation that the low turnout of workers should be expected, given the serial ill – treatment of them and the organised labour unions in the state. But notwithstanding, the Governor  declared that from tomorrow (Thursday), they would all receiving alerts for all deductions and full gross April salary, totaling N20.2bn, disclosing further that he has instructed the Finance Commissioner to ensure that all  leave allowances must come in from next week. According to him, all promotion letters would be rolled out up to 2017 but the in – coming Governor, (Dapo Abiodun) would handle that of the 2018. Amosun also regaled himself with the assurance that his administration would leave behind, a workforce that is more informed, better equipped and can even work anywhere compared to what he met on ground in 2011. He said: “We are not where we should be, but clearly we are on the right path. Yes, we may have our issues, but to the glory of God, we are leaving Ogun State better than we met it. We are leaving behind a workforce that is more informed, better equipped and can even work anywhere. “All we need to do is to follow the path we created and still creating to follow it through. Tomorrow, you will receive N20.2b for all outstanding deductions and April salary. “From next week, we will begin to pay our leave bonuses. As for the gratuity, I am not going gratuity to 2019. Gratuities are monies we use for development when we leave the service. We must wait at least two years before we bring in our papers and use one year to process the papers. “So when you count back from when we will be leaving, whatever it is that we are owing, we will run round to pay that part of gratuity. I am not owing anybody for the checkup dues, deductions and salaries since 2011 to 2019 that I will be leaving. “The newly recruited staff is not kangaroo recruitment. These are people that sat for the exam almost a year back and the procedures were followed; not that Amosun just woke up one day and said because I am leaving, I will bring in more people. “These are the people that wrote ASCON exam since early last year. We just took one thousand from them. If we are to pick all that wrote the exam, we may probably day we want to pick five thousand. “We picked one thousand from those that sat for the ASCON exam. We have given them their letters. As we employ more and create new offices in the public service, there is also the need to create necessary ambience, to bring out the creativity and professionalism of our public servants.”