Welcome to the concluding part of this teaching! My prayer for you is that God is going to turn every unwanted situation around your life into undeniable testimonies, in Jesus’ name! This week, we shall focus on the topic: Empowered by the Holy Spirit for Exploits! From scriptures, we understand that every child of God is ordained to live a lifestyle of exploits. This is because exploit is the birthright of the redeemed of the Lord. Also, for every believer, the scripture makes it clear that: Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid (Matthew 5:13-14).That means, our destinies are not just any kind, but an enviable one. Therefore, our call into the faith is unto glory and honour, not to shame, frustration and reproach (2 Peter 1:3; 1 Corinthians 2:9). However, we understand from scripture that, for our destinies to be great and glorious, it will require the ministry of the Holy Spirit for full delivery. This is because there is no exploit outside the Holy Spirit (Zechariah 4:6; Psalm 92:10-15). Who, then, is the Holy Ghost? He is the third Person of the Trinity who shares the same identity with the Father and the Son. Furthermore, we recognise from scriptures that the Holy Spirit is the power base of the Kingdom, and He manifests Himself through multi-dimensional channels. This is why we can’t play low on Him as He is a multi-dimensional Spirit that empowers the saints for exploits. Therefore, it is important to understand that there is no platform for comparison between what the flesh can accomplish and what the Spirit can get done. Thus, our golden destinies are not deliverable by human efforts or exertion of one’s might, but by the Holy Spirit. For instance, we saw from scriptures that John the Baptist carried the potential above what Elijah carried; yet, a small girl demanded for his head and as such he couldn’t fulfil his glorious destiny. Also, until the Holy Ghost came, the glorious destinies of Peter, James, John and the other disciples were not realised. After the Holy Ghost came, the fearful Peter became bold such that he and his team took the city by storm. Even Jesus, until He returned in the power of the Spirit, He had no identity. Obviously, to be destined for exploits is one thing; it is another to accomplish it on earth. Consequently, potential is not equal to realities. That is why we must find out what it takes to actualise our potentials in Christ. However, the Holy Ghost operates through divine channels. Thus, until we engage these channels, life remains an eternal struggle. Some of these channels include: The Spirit of Love: We have the Holy Ghost firing the love of God into our hearts.  Importantly, the Spirit of love is not just about loving God, but loving God above all else including self. We observe from scriptures how anointed lovers of God excelled. For instance, Joseph, a lover of God set an example for us on the importance of the Spirit of love in doing exploits. He said: …how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God? (Genesis 39:9).Likewise, Daniel who would rather die in the lion’s den than to bow to the idols of the king consequently became the envy of his generation. I once said, you may have read all the books I have written but you have not found my secret until you discover my heartbeat for God because the secret of my little life is in my heartbeat for God. The Spirit of Boldness: It takes boldness to possess our possession and to command exploits. As we all know, in everyone’s Promised Land, there are giants, whose mission is to scare us from possessing our possessions and the more we subscribe to fear, the more we become grounded. Remember, it is the fear of man that brings him into a fall. Consider Job the great, who initially became grounded as a result of fear. That was also Peter’s experience until he was baptized by the Holy Ghost. Thereafter, the shaky Peter became a rock; spoke the unspeakable and set fear into the heart of the enemy. In summary, there is no shortcut to actualising our potentials in Christ without the visible, tangible and proven empowerment of the Spirit which begins with baptism in the Holy Ghost. Remember, the world is waiting for the manifestation of the sons of God, but only those empowered by the Spirit can manifest as such. However, supernatural exploits in life is not for everybody; it is only reserved for the redeemed. Are you born again? If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, please get my books: Following the Path of the Eagle, Exploring the Secrets of Success, Success Strategies, Success Buttons, Success Systems and Ruling your World. I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:50 a.m., 9:40 a.m., and 11:30 a.m. respectively. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria; or call 01-4548070, 01-4548280; or E-mail: feedback@lfcww.org; Facebook: www.facebook.com/davidoyedepoministries/;  Twitter: @DavidOyedepoMin.