The Senate on Thursday passed the City University of Technology (Est, etc) Yaba Bill, 2018 for second reading. The decision followed a motion by Senator Gbenga Ashafa (APC-Lagos) at the plenary presided over by Senate President Bukola Saraki in Abuja. Essentially, the bill seeks to transform the Yaba College of Technology (YabaTech) in Lagos State, to the City University of Technology, Yaba. Leading the debate, Ashafa, representing Lagos East Senatorial District, argued that if the bill is considered, it would enhance the capability of the institution to achieve its objectives. He said: “Nigeria’s steady march towards education for all in the shortest possible time has taken a giant leap with the introduction of this bill. “I am personally excited by the prospect of transforming this polytechnic to a university of technology because it will motivate both students and academic staff. It will also upgrade the facilities and enhance it capability to achieve its objectives. “Similarly, the new university of technology will encourage the advancement of learning and hold out to all persons without distinction of race, creed, sex or political conviction the opportunity of acquiring a higher and liberal education.” Citing instances, the lawmaker noted that in similar circumstances in the United Kingdom (UK), most of the polytechnics were upgraded to universities. “If Nigeria has plan to become one of the world’s leading economies as currently being pursued by government, we must be ready to adjust and position our educational institutions so that its products are geared for the technological challenges inherent in such projections,” he said. According to him, the attainment of university status would definitely enhance the operations of the Yaba Polytechnic and clarify its mission and vision. Lawmakers, who contributed to the motion, also supported it. When the motion was put on a voice vote, it was unanimously adopted by the legislators. Saraki referred the bill to Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND for further legislative action and report back within a week. Similarly, the Senate also passed a Bill for the Establishment of Federal Polytechnic, Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos, sponsored by Ashafa for second reading