Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, and his Kano State counterpart, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, yesterday congratulated Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State on their emergence as chairmen of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) respectively. Governor Ambode, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna, described their emergence as fitting and well deserved, adding that both being governors from the progressive fold was not only a positive sign for the party but also a good omen for democracy in Nigeria. “Let me congratulate my brother governors, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and Alhaji Atiku Bagudu on their election as Chairman of NGF and PGF respectively. Their emergence has come at a time when our democracy needs men with proven track record of progressive leadership and experience. “Dr. Fayemi is a technocrat and development expert with a rich wealth of experience over the years, and I am confident that he will galvanise the NGF to work with President Muhammadu Buhari to take the nation to the next level. “Alhaji Bagudu has also proven his mettle as a man of honour, a progressive to the core and without a doubt, his emergence as the Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum will unite the party to be stronger, all inclusive, deepen the democratic institutions and provide the necessary support that Mr. President requires as he continues to stir Nigeria to greater heights,” he said. Governor Ambode also urged other state governors to rally round both men and work together for the greater interest of the country. Governor Ganduje, who congratulated Fayemi over his election as NGF chairman also extended same to Governor Samuel Lalong of Plateau State, who was also elected as the Chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum as well as Bagudu, the newly elected chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum. Ganduje noted that all the people elected to chair the fora have the necessary qualities and requirements to lead in those capacities. “They are versatile, resourceful, dedicated and committed to a common goal. That is genuinely serving our dear nation,” he said. He appreciated his colleague governors for the choice they made, which he said originated from genuine concern and interest for the overall development of the nation in general. “With these choices in our fora, it is clear to all that next level is going to be brighter and more productive. “All the newly elected chairmen are visionary leaders with greater vision to propel our socio-political and economic development to greater height,” he said.