Confidentiality (2) Subject to section 27, no person may disclose any information contemplated in subsection (1) unless: (a) The user consents to that disclosure in writing; (b) a court order or any law requires that disclosure; or (i) in the case of a minor with the request of a parent or guardian; and (ii) in the case of a person who is otherwise unable to grant consent upon the request of a guardian or representative. (c) Non-disclosure of the information represents a serious threat to public health. Section 27: A health worker or any healthcare provider that has access to the health records of a user may disclose such personal information to any other person, health care provider or health establishment as is necessary for any legitimate purpose within the ordinary course and scope of his or her duties where such access or disclosure is in the interest of the user. Section 28: (1) A health care provider may examine a user’s health records for the purposes of: (a) Treatment with the authorisation of the user; and (b) Study, teaching or research with the authorisation of the user, head of the health establishment concerned and the relevant health research ethics committee. (2) If the study, teaching or research under subsection (l) (b) of this section reflects or obtains no information as to the identity of the user concerned, it is not necessary to obtain the authorisations contemplated in that subsection. Who is a consumer or in this case, healthcare consumer? A consumer is someone who purchases goods or services for own personal use and not for resale or for manufacture. Thus, everyone is a consumer in one form or the other, purchasing various goods and services. We depend on each other to survive. The provider of goods and services does so either as an individual or an organisation – whatever the form of such organisation – as an enterprising party for either profit or not-for-profit. The enterprise that is for profit is driven by the desire to make money. In so doing, the enterprise tends to take the route of efficiency: gaining much profit with little input. In the course of gaining profit, in the process of manufacturing goods or providing services, errors may occur. The interaction of human beings and processing of materials, all in the course to meet consumer expectation, may lead to harmful errors, faulty products, poor quality of goods and services with an end-result that causes injury to the consumer. Such injury, in a lawful and decent society of men and women, cannot and should not go without a remedy. On the other side of the coin, not-for-profit organisation such as churches, mosques and any other religious entity, children’s charity, and so many others, provides services or goods for reasons. Some healthcare providers, acting as charitable organisations, are set up to provide free healthcare to the public. Some legal practitioners provide charitable services. Some have altruistic intention and some exist to satisfy a given desire. In any case, a consumer still exists that consumes the doctrines, the information and services that charitable organisations provide. Regardless of if for profit or not, there are consumers for what these organisations provide. Whatever the status of such entities, so long as they provide something that someone else uses, they have a duty of care to that someone (See Nsima v. Nigerian Bottling Company (2014) LPELR- 22542(CA)). As a result of the doctrine of duty of care, consumers have rights considering that a consumer may very often give something (money, consideration, time, or productive efforts) in return for exchange for the products or services that they consume. Consumer protection in Nigeria In Nigeria, there are various laws as we have seen that are put in place to protect both biological and legal individuals. In spite of all these, abuse in various forms, persists in our society. Redress for the victims is scanty, far and few, if any. Perhaps, until 1992 when law set up the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), consumers in general, had a few routes, if any, to redress in Nigeria. As we have seen, litigation can be tortuous and expensive. It was a welcome development, when the CPC commenced operations in 1999 under the enabling Consumer Protection Council (CPC) Act (1992) with the following vision: “To be a dynamic, effective and responsible apex consumer protection agency of the Federal Government of Nigeria, championing the cause of fully sensitised consumers to achieve a caring and consumer-friendly community.” CPC will (or should) thus cover and intervene in any issue of consumer abuse or personal injury cases that come to its attention in any industrial sector in Nigeria.  It, therefore, seems that, the CPC is a valid and legitimate alternative route for seeking redress in cases of consumer abuses and personal injuries including clinical negligence issues. However and curiously, here is an observation by Damilola Sawyerr of Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. “Although the CPC Act makes provision for redress to complaints made by consumers through negotiation, mediation and conciliation a good alternative to court processes, the effectiveness of the Act and the ability of the Council to protect the rights of consumers through the monitoring of products manufactured by FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) companies is still in question.…initiative by the Council may also serve to provide redress to obnoxious practices or the unscrupulous exploitation of consumers by companies, firms, trade association or individual. It is only then that consumers can have respite and make FMCG companies accountable for the effects of their products on human health.” In summary, however, the CPC remains a good alternative to formal regulators of professionals, litigation, expensive legal representation and the court process. If you have any question or clarification on this article, please contact me: Tel: 07087733114 or website: www.the-hospitals.com