Conveners of the ‘June 12 Democracy Movement of Nigeria’ an umbrella body for pro-democracy leaders, activists and stakeholders associated with the June 12 struggles yesterday unfolded their plan for the Democracy Day celebrations. The ceremony will be chaired by Prof. Wole Soyinka in Lagos. This followed the Federal Government’s recognition of June 12 as Nigeria’s Democracy Day and the late Chief Moshood Abiola as the winner of the presidential election conducted on that day in 1993. The Federal Government Intervention, according to President Muhammadu Buhari, was in endorsement of the democratic struggles for the revalidation of the free, fair, credible democratic elections, but annulled by former Military President Ibrahim Babangida. A statement by the conveners in Lagos said: “In appreciation of the endorsement and honour done to the struggles of the June 12 pro Democracy Movement by the Federal Government, the historic significance and wider embrace of this year’s commemoration, the June 12 Democracy Movement of Nigeria has designed the 2019 nationwide celebrations to be preceded by a major Breakfast Session of Prayers, Tributes and Honours slated for MKO Abiola’s Residence in Lagos. “The breakfast event, which is being planned to affirm and honour MKO Abiola posthoumously as President Elect of Nigeria, has been scheduled to hold between 8am and 12noon to allow majority of our pro democracy stakeholders and allies join other government planned ceremonies afterwards. To this end the Breafast ceremony has been slated to hold as follows: “The date is Wednesday, June 12, 2019. The venue is MKO Abiola Democracy Centre, 46/48 MKO Abiola Crescent, off Toyin Street, Ikeja, Lagos “The theme of this year’s anniversary, which is to be chaired by Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, Chairman of National Liberation Council of Nigeria, NALICON is: MKO Abiola, Hope ’93 and the prospects of a prosperous Democracy in Nigeria: How far? How well? Speakers include; Chief Emeka Anyaoku, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu, Gen Alani Akinriade, Commodre Dan Suleiman, Bishop Mathew Kuka, Prof Pat Utomi, Col Umar Abubarkar Dangiwa, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, Comrade Frank Kokori, Senator Shehu Sani, Pastor Tunde Bakare, Mrs Ayo Obe, Dr. Mrs. Oby Ezekwesili, Mr. Femi Falana, Madam Ganiat Fawehinmi, Bashorun Dele Momodu, Comrade Olusegun Mayegun, Festus Keyamo, Alhaji Shetimma Yerima and Comrade Josef Eva.”