The National Leadership of Ijaw Interest Advocates (IIA) Izanzan Intellectual Camp has called on all Ijaws in the country to support Prof Nelson Brambaifa, the Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The group, in a statement by its National Coordinator, Ambassador Arerebo Yerinmene Jnr, while reacting to an earlier publication by another group titled “ Ex-militants demand sack of NDDC boss” made against Prof Nelson Brambaifa, called on the leadership of the group to retract their statement. It said: “Prof. Braimbaifa should be supported by us all as he captains the NDDC as acting managing Director (MD). What we should clamour for is for President Buhari to confirm him as the substantive Managing Director. “It is a cogent and genuine fact that he is trying his best by engaging more youths in empowerment programs, lawfully approving funds for contractors and many more.” The group noted as people they are expected to rally around their people that are doing well in terms of development and youth empowerment programs especially the ones heading intervention agencies to do well to develop their places as well as empowering their people. “We want to reinstate it clearly that we have firmly resolved to always protect all sons and daughters of Ijaw Nation whenever their interest conflicts with those who do not mean well for us and have always frowned whenever positive plans for the Ijaw people are unveiled. “As advocates of development, justice and peace in the Niger Delta, we are well abreast with the numerous sacrifices that the socioeconomic and political rights agitators of the Niger Delta particularly the Ijaw people have made to ensure that the oil rich region is given the attention it deserves, ex-militants inclusive therefore we are once again calling of the ex-militants to mindful and not to be used by some opposing forces for their own self gains,” the statement added. While calling for the confirmation of Brambaifa as the substantive Managing Director of NDDC, the group said said they are watching Brambaifa keenly as he discharge his duties. 