The remains of the late federal lawmaker representing Lagelu/Akinyele in the lower chamber of the National Assembly, Olatoye Temitope Sugar was finally laid to rest amidst tears and heavy security. The lawmaker whose funeral rites began on Monday was shot during the March 29 governorship and house of assembly elections around the Lalupon axis of the state by yet to be nabbed assailants. The burial service which took place at Everlasting Gardens and Hotels, Iwo Road-Ojoo, Expressway, General Gas Junction, Ibadan, was attended by thousands of friends, political associates, friends and family members of the deceased. Patrol vehicles of a combined team of men of the Nigerian police and teams of the state anti-crime security outfit, Operation Burst were strategically located in different axis of the Express way enroute the General Gas, Akobo axis. Speaking in his sermon before the interment ceremony, Dr J. Nunayon urged the family of the deceased lawmaker to leave vengeance for God Almighty, assuring that the God the deceased lawmaker serves is a God of vengeance. Obviously, the advice comes following series of calls and cries by the family of the deceased lawmaker to ensure the death of their breadwinner did not end up unresolved like some others, accusing the government at both the federal and state level of not doing enough to ensure the killers of the lawmaker are nabbed and made to face the music. The cleric while explaining that God is aware of the incident leading to the death of the federal lawmaker, assured that in due course, the Almighty will avenge for the family. He urged the people to know that whatever one does lives longer than the action, saying people must live rightly and in the fear of God. In his remarks, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara noted that the late Sugar will be remembered for his philanthropic gestures and love for the downtrodden. He was represented at the event by the member representing Olorunsogo/Orelope federal constituency of Oyo State, Mr Bosun Oladele. Dogara described Sugar as a great man who is brilliant and outstanding in representing his people apart from touching many lives in various ways beyond his constituency. He assured the family of the deceased that the leadership of the National Assembly will also ensure that justice prevailed and the killers brought to book, adding that the children and family of the deceased will also be taken care of according to the House of Representatives practice for their members who lose their lives. Tears flowed freely as the remains of the deceased lawmaker was committed to mother-earth with many of the people shouting that justice must be done. Other dignitaries at the event includes, members of the Oyo state house of Assembly, clerics, artistes, religious leaders, community leaders and people from different walks of life who stormed the venue as signs of respect for the deceased humanitarian per excellence.