Nollywood is expected to receive another blockbuster movie, Shadow Parties, a story on communal clashes which have been one of the issues faced by the country in recent time. The movie which is presently in post-production stage and expected to hit the cinemas in August 2019, as revealed by the producer Yemi Amudu, will take such duration because of the features put together to make it appealing and acceptable at the cinemas. “This is a story on communal clashes; like the issue of the herdsmen,” said Amudu. “We have so many issues bordered on insecurity in the society that needs to be talked about. “As a filmmaker, one thing that comes to mind is who is a sociologist? A sociologist is a person that believes in the development of its environment and its inhabitants. If you are the one that thinks about the people in your environment, then seeing them die is not something you want to see. “So as a filmmaker my duty is to help the society. Shadow Parties has a lot to do with the society. It is not just producing film for fun; though we have different scenes in the movie. Drama elements that are entertaining, but the story is didactic enough to teach moral and exposing the evil involved in communal clashes.” The Media Concept Studio -sponsored movie is a story about Aremu (Ken Erics) who hails from Aje, a town that neighbours Iludun, where his wife, Arike (Toyin Aimakhu) was born. Known for fratricidal wars, which had claimed the lives of Arike’s parents, the towns were one more time thrown into war after the kinsmen of Aremu decided to burn his wife and child claiming she was an enemy and also triggering a reprisal attack from the Iluduns led by Lowo (Yemi Blaq), Arike’s brother. A paradox of communal clash, “Shadow Parties” encapsulates the endless political intrigues that would later transform into blood business of arms and ammunition and of course the killings of innocent residents, which is an exposition of reality. The cast featured in the movie include Nigerian actors, Omotola Jalade; the central character, Shola Sobowale, Segun Arinze, Yemi Blaq Sola Kosoko, Jide Kosoko, Rotimi Salami, Hafiz Oyetoro, among others with Magdalena Korpas and Lucien Morgan as the foreign cast. The movie was shot across the south-west; Lagos, Ibadan, Erin Ijesha, Osun and Ekiti State.