Companies quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) shall now be required to indicate their shareholding structure and an indication of compliance level with the minimum number of shares or capitalisation being held by minority retail shareholders in their half-year reports. Companies were previously required to indicate shareholding structure in full-year report and were not under obligation to categorically indicate compliance with free float. Free float, otherwise known as public float, refers to the number of shares of a quoted company held by ordinary shareholders other than those directly or indirectly held by its parent, subsidiary or associate companies or any subsidiaries or associates of its parent company; its directors who are holding office as directors of the entity and their close family members and any single individual or institutional shareholder holding a statutorily significant stake, which is 5.0 per cent and above in Nigeria. An amendment to the existing free float rules, obtained at the weekend by The Nation, that companies shall also be required to undertake periodic self-assessment of their free float compliance and report any breach or shortfall to the Exchange. The new rules place the onus of investigation and compliance on the companies, in addition to existing surveillance by the capital market authorities. According to the amendment, every company shall independently review its free float every half-year or other reasonable time, and when there is a breach of its free float requirement, disclose this to the Exchange and immediately initiate the steps to remedy the default and comply with its free float requirement. The amendment, which was approved by Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), last week, mandates the Exchange to commence the process of delisting any company that fails to respond to specific notice on free float default within 10 business days of receiving the notification or any company that fails to produce and submit an acceptable compliance plan to the Exchange within three months of being notified of falling short of free float under the Exchange’s periodic “X-Compliance Report”. The NSE is also expected to commence delisting process if the company’s compliance plan is not acceptable to the Exchange, and the company fails to produce and submit an acceptable alternative plan within 21 business days of the Exchange’s rejection of the initial plan. The NSE can also trigger the delisting process if the defaulting company is unable to return to a state of full compliance within such period as indicated in the company’s compliance plan approved by the Exchange. The amendment, in addition to existing percentage free float requirement, also provides the minimum number of minority retail shareholders and minimum capitalisation that can serve as alternative free float to percentage of shares.