Pharmacy students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) are kicking against  the industrial action embarked upon by their lecturers. The strike, which began on April 1, saw the lecturers refusing to carry out their duties and conduct inductions for the final year students. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the lecturers are angry over unpaid allowances and alleged shabby treatment meted out to them by management. According to findings by CAMPUSLIFE, all was set for the final year students to be conferred as ‘pharmacists’ when the news of their lecturers’ strike halted preparations for the induction. The students were more irked because only the Faculty of Pharmacy was shut down, while other faculties are still running. Some of the aggrieved students told CAMPUSLIFE that the lecturers could have explored other avenues to express their grievances other than their present action. One of the students, Charles Omokaro, recounted how he was looking forward to resuming for the session when he learned that the lecturers were requesting for their unpaid allowances: “This is annoying. Why will industrial action be the only option to address our needs and requests in this country? What happened to dialogue?” A lecturer who pleaded anonymity stated that they had sued for dialogue for a long while, but the school management had taken them for granted. He said: “The Faculty of Pharmacy is like the cash cow of the university. We have a factory where we produce drugs that supply the university health services and other nearby retailers.  We do not know why matters concerning the faculty are treated so lightly. Other lecturers in their relevant fields are paid their due allowances, but lecturers in pharmacy are not paid. This is uncalled for, and until they decide to address this issue, we are ready to stay at home.” According to the lecturer, the management had repeatedly ignored their pleas, adding that dialogue has not helped the situation either. However, what seems like a twist to the story is now emerging as students of the faculty blamed their lecturers for carrying out a partial strike. They alleged that the lecturers conducted exams for the PharmD conversion students in the course of the strike, but have ignored the importance of inducting their final year students. However, the Head of National Association of Pharmacists in the Academia (NAPA), UNIBEN chapter, Fabian Amaechina, declined comments and directed CAMPUSLIFE to the management. Lauretta Obakpolor, who is the past SUG president and a final year pharmacy student, explained that although the strike was long overdue; yet the timing may not been perfect. “I believe the aggrieved lecturers once ignored the need to agitate over their legitimate rights. I say this because this fight has been long overdue.Keeping it till this time and allowing themselves to be coaxed into mere promises is insensitivity on their part. The management, on the other hand, should be careful in making promises they know they can’t keep basically due to the bureaucracy and other Nigerian factor. After promising three times and failing, they don’t expect NAPA to believe any of their promises anymore.” Lucky Oduma described the yet-to-be-inducted students as ‘unfair’. Uduma stressed that he had been delayed for additional months just because of the strike. He called on the striking lecturers to cease fire and attend to the inducting before the strike could continue. Meanwhile Uniben Public Relations Officer Mr. Michael Osasuyi, said management is trying to resolve the issue amicably. He said: “Every workers are being paid by the Federal Government so the university has paid everyone as and at when due. “These lectures presented to us a document which was backed up by their association; but we realised the whole thing was not properly documented. “We studied the document and realised the allowances they are agitating for could only be paid to two categories of pharmacists- those in the hospitals and health centres. These lecturers are already under salary structure which is (CONUASS) Consolidated University Academic Salary Structure CONUASS, but also want a situation where they will also be under CONMESS (Consolidated Medical Salary Structure) so that the allowances they are agitating for could be paid. ‘’The management want peace; this is why we have been looking for final solutions to this issue.” Then university does not have the right to determine what to be paid once such is not yet captured under the Salary and Wages Commission. That is the point we are now. The Salary and Wages Commission also sent a delegation to the university to explain this. We do not want to be coerced into taking in what we cannot spew. But we are not sleeping over the matter.”