Excitement is growing in Nigeria for the launch of the country’s largest construction event, The Big 5 Construct Nigeria. The Nigerian Institute of Architects, the Nigerian Society of Engineers, the Surveyors Council of Nigeria, the African Association of Interior Designers, the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Association), and the African Sustainable Energy Association (AFSEA) are in fact among the many organisations that already announced their support to the event holding in Lagos. Part of The Big 5 portfolio of events, the largest in the Middle East, Asia and Africa, The Big 5 Construct Nigeria will run from 9 to 11 September 2019 at the Landmark Centre in Lagos. “The extremely positive feedback we are receiving from industry stakeholders proves just how important it is for Nigeria to host an international construction event like The Big 5 Construct Nigeria today,” says Muhammed Kazi, Portfolio Event Director at dmg events. “At a time when the country is pursuing an unprecedented infrastructure development, the event will finally bring together influential decision-makers, innovators and suppliers from around the globe for three days of business and networking opportunities in Lagos. “The Big 5 Construct Nigeria is going to be a turning point in the advancement of the West African construction sector,” he adds. Over 200 exhibiting companies and more than 5,000 industry professionals are expected to attend the launch edition of the show. Confirmed brands include regional and global leaders like KELM, ABB, Philips, Crane, Eurotray, Tata, Hilti, and Magna Tyres, organisers dmg events reveal. “We are extremely proud to announce that next to Nigerian exhibitors, renowned companies from France, Germany, Italy, South Africa, Turkey, and the UAE, among other countries, will take part in the event, making it a truly international show,” Kazi said. Beyond showcasing hundreds of solutions for the built environment, The Big 5 Construct Nigeria will also bring a wealth of free education to the Nigerian construction community. Across the three days of the show, visitors will receive complimentary CPD (Continuing Professional Development) certifications at 20 workshops to increase their technical expertise and advance their careers. Presented by renowned industry experts, the workshops will explore the latest construction trends and will offer crucial intelligence to advance the Nigerian building and infrastructure sectors.   