A High Court sitting in Kano yesterday issued an order against the appointment of four new emirs in the ancient city. The ruling, however, coincided with Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s appointment of Aminu Ado Bayero, son of the late Emir of Kano Ado Bayero, and three others as new emirs. Ruling in an ex parte motion dated May 10, 2019 and filed by Hon. Sule Gwarzo, Justice Nasiru Saminu restrained Ganduje, the Kano State House of Assembly and the Speaker, Clerk of the Assembly, the Attorney-General and the State from implementing the division of Kano into five emirates. In an order of interim injunction, the court directed all the parties in the suit to maintain the status quo, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. Governor Ganduje had signed a law on Wednesday, which created four additional emirates, a move that was widely viewed as an effort to reduce Emir Sanusi’s influence. The order directed the defendants/respondents to halt the publication and release of the law accented on May 8, 2019, namely: Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition), (Amendment), Law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. It reads: ”An order of interim injunction, retraining the Defendants/Respondents from taking steps or giving effect to the Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It also restrained the 4th Defendant/Respondent from appointing or recognising any purported Emir under Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It further restrained the 4th Defendant from giving a staff of office or appointing anyone whatsoever as Emir of Gaya Emirate, Bichi Emirate, Rano Emirate and Karaye Emirate, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”And such further or other orders, as this Honourable Court may deem just to make in the circumstances. “The matter has been adjourned to May 15, 2019 for hearing on motion on notice.” But in an announcement on radio stations in Kano yesterday, Ganduje was reported to have appointed three other emirs for Gaya, Rano and Karaye emirates, in addition to Bayero. Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir Gaya was appointed as the Emir of Gaya. The Emir of Rano is Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Ila, while the Emir of Karaye is Dr. Alhaji Ibrahim Abukakar ll. All four emirs have been elevated to First Class status, the same rank as Sanusi. The new monarchs, our correspondent gathered, will be officially turbaned today at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kofar Mata, Kano, where the governor is expected to present letters and staffs of office to the four new emirs during the event. Speaking with State House correspondents in Abuja yesterday, Governor Ganduje said the creation of the four new emirates is not meant to settle any personal vendetta. He recalled that the bill that created the new emirates was passed and transmitted to him by the state’s House of Assembly. Ganduje noted that constitutionally, the emir is answerable to the Local Government Authority. He said the people of Kano State are happy with the creation of more emirates in the state. Reminded that his action might have rubbished over 800 years of Kano history for personal vendetta, he said: “Well, they are entitled to their own opinion. But we are taking Kano to the next level and we need active participation of the traditional system, especially in the areas of education, security, agriculture. “We need the effectiveness of the traditional rulers. By discentralising it, we are following history. “Years back, even before the 800 years you are referring to, the situation was not like that. “So, if something developed 800 years ago, things are also developing now and there will be another 800 years. So, look at the history. “So, it is not vendetta. I am not against him. In fact, he is supposed to be reporting to the local government chairman, according to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “It is the local government chairman that is supposed to discuss issues with him, not the governor. “So, this is celebrated by the people of Kano and we will make sure that the new Emirate councils are effective in terms of developing Kano State.”