The Minister for Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu has commended the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) for ensuring service delivery to the public. The minister said this during the Unveiling of the Remodeled JAMB Headquarters Complex in Bwari Abuja, on Saturday. Adamu, represented by Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, Executive Secretary, National University Commission (NUC) said that the board’s show of integrity was worth emulating. According to him, this has continued to be the flagship of the education sector in terms of transparent and honest service delivery. “There is no doubt about it, that the motto of the Board which is Service and Integrity had long visualised the current leadership of the organisation. “I, therefore, congratulate Dr Emmanuel Ndukwue, the Chairman of the Governing Board and his team for a wonderful job,’ ’he said. Adamu also said that the recent ‘painstaking effort’ of the board at scrutinising the process of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and its relationship with intent, plans, and execution of examination malpractice was not a misplaced one. He, however, said that the outcome of the exercise has revealed a lot of rot in the education system. The minister said that it was unfortunate, as examination malpractice was mostly practiced by the youths who are the leaders of tomorrow. He added that the Federal Ministry of Education was in full support of JAMB’s efforts. He also said that the Ministry would continue to give it all the assistance is required to ensure that the syndicate in the examination industry is frontally confronted in the overall interest of the country. Adamu also directed that all public examination bodies must ensure the cleanup and sanitation of their registration processes, in emulation of JAMB. He expressed satisfaction that the Board had been prudent in expending its resources and getting value for the same, while also calling on the staff and community to use the facilities efficiently. Earlier, Prof Is-haq Oloyede, Registrar, JAMB in his remarks said that the remodeling project had cost the board N46 million. Oloyede said the board was working tirelessly to ensure sanity in the entire system to meet the needs of the public in the process. He assured that the board would stop at nothing to ensure it delivered the best. News Agency of Nigeria reports that the board also inaugurated a new Staff canteen and also laid a foundation stone for a General Services Department building. NAN also reports that stakeholders of the Education sector, members of staff of JAMB as well as members of the Bwari community were in attendance. (NAN)