Jibril Martin Memorial Grammar School, Iponri, Lagos is to face sanctions for registering external candidates for the ongoing 2019 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for school candidates. The school owned by the Anwar-Ul-Islam Movement of Nigeria, was one of the mission schools returned by the Lagos State government to their owners in 2001. Director-General, Lagos State Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, who monitored the WASSCE English paper on Thursday, discovered the school had 127 SS3 pupils on its register compared to over 180 candidates presented for the examination. Some of the 18 external candidates her team physically identified were SS3 pupils from public schools and unapproved private schools or candidates retaking the examination some of who were clearly over-aged. Some of the candidates also came from far-flung places within and outside Lagos – like Ilorin, Kwara State and Abia State. Soyombo said registration of private candidates clearly contravened the laws for WAEC school examination and was fertile ground for perpetration of examination malpractice. “For us to check your students today to see that they are not your own bonafide students, that means you are not supposed to be an approved school. “There is a section in place in law that every approved school must stick to their students alone. You are not supposed to condone unapproved schools to be sending their wards to your school,” she said to the school’s principal. The DG said sanctions would be meted out after she reports the case to the Deputy Government, Dr  Idiat Adebule, who oversees the Education sector. Soyombo also said her office would conduct a whole-school evaluation for the school because of lapses noted during the visit. She observed that the school allowed external people use its facility as parking lot, which contravenes Lagos State School safety and safeguarding laws; there was naked wire close to toilets used by students in one of the blocks, the home economics laboratory lacked facilities and was dumping ground for old documents and the library had no furniture or books. It was rather used to store old books and bags of packaged water. At the nearby Estate Senior High School, Iponri, a public school, 80 candidates registered for English were all SS3 pupils of the school. The DG commended them from writing their examination in their school rather than seeking miracle centres in private schools.