Over reliance on insurance companies, poor use of technology, poor knowledge, poor image and lack of professionalism are major challenges hindering insurance agents from tapping into the opportunities in the Market Development and Restructuring initiative of the Federal Government. The National President, Association of Registered Insurance Agents of Nigeria (ARIAN), Ademola Fagbayi, made this known on the sideline of the association annual conference held in Lagos. Consequently, he said the association would embark on series of training as they strongly believe that agents need to update their knowledge of technology. He said he hoped to increase the membership strength of the body’s 10,000 before leaving office just as he called on agents to explore the untapped opportunities in non-life insurance business. He said: “The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) through MDRI has provided great opportunity for insurance agency practice in Nigeria. But the question is how well are we leveraging on it’? Insurance agency in Nigeria has not been able to achieve her full potential because of some major challenges. “According to NAICOM’s report, insurance density in terms of insurance premium as percentage of the gross domestic product (GDP) stands at 0.225 per cent. Total policy holders are about 1.5 million. Total premium in 2015 was $1.87 billion which ranked Nigeria at 64th in the world. Insurance penetration in Nigeria is 0.6 per cent, Kenya is 3.4 per cent, and South Africa is 15 per cent while Egypt an Islamic nation is about 13 per cent. The implication is that over 90 per cent of Nigerians don’t have any form of insurance. “Nigeria’s population stood at 173.6 million according to 2013 population Census. We may probably be between 180 to 200 million currently. Demography: 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population are below 65 years with over 105 million working class. Obviously Nigeria has massive potential for insurance business growth. No wonder some foreign insurance company are making inroad to Nigeria. The challenge that we have in the industry is how to transform the opportunity to business”, he added.