Super Eagles midfielder Babatunde Michael is obviously enjoying one of his football best moment in Morocco, earned an ecstatic applause from the fans as he rescued Wydad Casablanca to 2-2 draw against Ittihad Tanger yesterday. It was a great moment for the 2014 World Cup star on Friday night, after scoring an equalizing goal that turned Stade Père Jégoa stadium to jubilation centre in what the commentator described as a great moment for the Nigerian player. Wydad Casablanca were trailing Ittihad Tanger 1-0 before Babatunde Michael made an emphatic effort in the 18-yard box to pull back the equalizing goal that changed the atmosphere of the game at 82nd minutes. The visitor were also brilliant enough to restored the lead at the 89th minutes through Mehdi Naghmi before Casablanca’s player Cheick Camara made it 2-2 at the 96th minutes of the game. Cheick Camara was another messiah of the night but Babatunde was consistently driving the team to get the goals, and won himself the Man of the Match award accolade. The 26-year-old midfielder has scored 13 goals for Wydad Casablanca this season. Despite his team’s drop of point against Ittihad Tanger, Babatunde still hoping to clinch the league title as the CAF Champions League trophy with Moroccan side Wydad Casablanca. “I am glad for what the fans did for me, I think it was one of the best moment any player will dream of,” said Babatunde. “It was a difficult match, but everytime I touched the ball I believe it was not over and that’s kind of game we should be expecting at the moment. Every team will be ready to test our ability, but we are calm and focus, that’s just the magic against Ittihad Tanger. “Of course we have dropped points but we are still leading the table with 3-points and hopefully we will win the remaining games and be the champions of the league. Speaking about the CAF Champions League experience and the domestic league focus, he said: “We want to make history, and we have prepared ourselves for the worst moment, we are not losing sleep for the two titles and that’s why we were able to fight back against Ittihad Tanger.”