The Save Ogbia Movement (SOM) has insisted that former President Goodluck Jonathan and his wife, Patience, worked against the interests of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the last general elections. The group in a statement said the former President despite benefitting immensely from PDP abandoned candidates of his party especially in Ogbia Local Government Area and the entire East Senatorial District in the last elections. The statement signed by the Secretary of the group, Franklin Azibola James, noted that few days to the election, the former President called a meeting of his loyalists in the party at his Otuoke home and told them to vote for the PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and other candidates of their choice in the National and house of assembly elections. James lamented that Jonathan’s disposition and lack of contributions to the party made the elections very difficult for the PDP and brought the ugly narrative of an opposition party winning his senatorial district. He recalled that while holding sway as the President on the platform of the PDP, Jonathan failed to contribute to the unity of his party at home but allowed his presidential aides to sow seeds of discord, that almost destabilize Bayelsa. James said having failed to attract any meaningful development to Bayelsa and his own local government, Jonathan was expected to return home and help the PDP to withstand the force of opposition. He said: But this is far from the truth. Instead the former President has continued to promote his personal interest against the collective aspirations of the PDP. Whatever he is today was made possible by the PDP. “As a poor creek boy, he rose to become a deputy governor, governor, Vice-President and President on the platform of the PDP. It is unimaginable that a man that had risen to prominence, will turn around to work against the same platform that supported him. “The last election is a case study. Instead supporting his party, our former president worked for the candidates of the ADC. We can no longer keep quiet. I mean how long will we continue to cover up for the anti-PDP posture of Jonathan at his home state? “We are still disappointed at his outing at the Presidency. He squandered a glorious opportunity to develop Bayelsa, his home state. He couldn’t even complete the East-West Road. In fact, Bayelsa section of the road had remained deplorable. He couldn’t construct roads in our own Ogbia local government area. “Anybody that visits Ogbia will never believe that we once produced the President. We tried to swallow all of these unforgivable shortcomings. But the one that we can’t tolerate is working against the interests of PDP in elections”. James advised the former President to forego his personal interests and work with the party leadership in the state as a demonstration of gratitude to the PDP. “Jonathan should work with the state leadership of the PDP to promote the general interests of the party in the state. He has benefited so much in the party that his name should not be mentioned in any activity against PDP”, James said. But the ex-President’s media aide, Ikechukwu Eze, in a recent statement said there was no truth in the claim that Jonathan was engaging in anti-party activities. He said: “It is manifestly dishonest, deceitful and preposterous for anybody to suggest that former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan is working against the interest of the party under which he rose to occupy the highest office in the land.”