Nigerian music artiste, Adekunle Temitope, popularly known as Small Doctor has urged the governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode to impress it on the incoming administration to take the building of the Agege Bridge as a top priority. He made this appeal at the Agege Stadium on Saturday, as African Legends gathered for a testimonial match in honour of the governor, whose term in office finishes on May 29. Small Doctor said “Neighboring areas have their own bridges. I want to be taking pictures at Agege Pen-Cinema Bridge, and be sending it worldwide. Please impress it on the next governor to take that project as priority.” Meanwhile, the match in honour of the governor had the biggest African and Nigerian footballers to have played the round leather game. The Nigerian team, coached by 1996 Olympic gold medal winning coach, Bonfere Jo, had Austin  ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, Augustine Eguavoen, Obafemi Martins, Daniel Amokachi, Mutiu Adepoju, Emmanuel Amunike, Taribo West, Samson Siasia, Garba Lawal, Peter Rufai and Ike Shorunmu, Victor Ikpeba. Others included Julius Aghahowa, Tijani Babangida, Finidi George and Sam Sodje, The deputy governor of Edo State, Philip Shuaibu and Ayo Makun, popularly known as AY also had a feel of the game. El Hadji Diouf, Titi Kamara, Stephen Appiah, Loumana Tresor Lua Lua,  Christian Karembeu, Didier Zokora,  Seydou Keita and Khalilou Fadiga  represented the African team, and they were coached by former Nigeria U-17 Coach, Fanny Anum. In the presence of the crowd that thronged the Agege Stadium, Nwankwo Kanu scored the first goal of the match before Titi Kamara equalized for the African legends level within a space of two minutes. Khaliou Fadiga got a second goal for the African Legends, and a foul in the penalty box by Taribo West on El Hadji Diouf led to a penalty that was converted by Titi Kamara which put the African Legends 3-1 ahead at half time. In the second half, Garba Lawal fired in a free kick from the edge of the 18-yard to half the deficit for the Nigerian legends. But a cheeky penalty from El Hadji Diouf put the African Legends 4-2 up. With the game going to its end, Obafemi Martins charged through the defence of the African Legends and scored a rebound with a header, while a stoppage time goal by comedian, Ayo Makun ensured both team shared the spoils, with the game finishing in a thrilling 4-4 draw. Before the match began, Governor  Ambode was given a guard of honour by both teams as he walked through with fireworks display, before he was given the honour of performing  the official kick off for the match. Speaking at the end of the match, Nwankwo Kanu said that this match “is just to tell people that football is one. We are united Africans. We must learn to do things together, and appreciate whoever is doing something great amongst us.”