The National Executive Committee of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) has approved expulsion of its National Secretary, Dr. James Okoroma and three other members of the National Working Committee for alleged anti-party activities, insubordination and causing disaffection and division among members. The party’s highest decision making body also approved the expulsion of 13 other members of the National Executive Committee and the appointment of Dr. Steve Uwazie as the new National Secretary of the party. National Chairman of the party, Engr. Yabagi Sani, said at a news conference in Abuja the expelled National Secretary was discovered to have been an agent of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and worked for the APGA governorship candidate in Imo state Ifeanyi Ararume during the just- concluded general election. Sani also said the former National Secretary took resources of the party and the vehicle given to him as the Director General of the party’s Campaign Council and rebranded it in APGA colours during the elections, while the campaign he was supposed to head suffered. Sani praised the tenacity of members of the party in rebuilding the party for the tasks ahead, adding as it currently stand on the INEC ranking, assuring the ADP will be repositioned to take over the leadership of the country in 2023. Dr. Okoroma had also recently announced the suspension of the National Chairman, accusing him of embezzling about N20 million belonging to the party but Sani said he was already taking legal action against him and others for defamation of character. Reading the resolution of the NEC, the new National Secretary, Dr. Steve Uwazie, said one of the leaders of the party in the south South, Senator Rowland Owie is to appear before the disciplinary committee to explain his alleged involvement in pitching some state chapters against the leadership of the party, contrary to the constitution of the party. Uwazie said the NEC unanimously passed a vote of confidence on the leadership of Sani and pledged loyalty, calling on members of the party to rally round him to reposition the party. The NEC also approved dissolution of all standing committee, promising new ones are to be reconstituted to enhance efficiency in the management of the party. 