Four officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) kidnapped in Rivers State have regained their freedom, The Nation learnt yesterday. Julius Alunomoh, Damian Egwu, Olisa Ojukwu and Chidiebere Wendy (female) were kidnapped last Tuesday at Obua-Adual Local Government Area of Rivers State on their way to Abuja. The officials had gone to Rivers State for enumeration exercise, but were ambushed by gunmen on their way back to Abuja. While four of them were kidnapped, another official, Kingsley Okafor, was said to have escaped with a gunshot injury on his leg. Although the kidnappers demanded N40 million ransom, it was however not clear if the government paid for their freedom. According to NEMA’s Director of Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), Vincent Owan, the victims were released unhurt. He thanked the management and workers for their prayers and steadfastness. Owan declined comments on whether the N40 million was paid, maintaining that what was important was their freedom and reuniting with their families. He said: “The most important thing now is not whether the ransom was paid or not. We are delighted to see them back. Though, they are hale and hearty on the surface, but there is need for them to undergo psychological assessment and counselling for trauma. We want them to be stabilised as soon as possible. “I thank the NEMA Director-General, Mustapha Maihaja, for working round the clock in facilitating the release of our colleagues. Most of our workers and families had been on vigil. It was a harrowing experience for all of us but God did not abandon us. We, therefore, give him glory.” Women leader of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) Hafsat Shuaibu urged the government to approve NEMA’s condition of service to cover risk and hazard allowances for emergency workers. She said: “We must praise NEMA’s management for its diligent and prompt response to the plight of the kidnapped workers. The incident cannot deter us from responding to disasters and emergency situation because that is our professional calling. “We, nevertheless, find it necessary to call on the government to approve our condition of service to cater for the nature of our jobs as we attend to victims of disasters and emergencies even in the most difficult terrains.” A statement by spokesman of the Rivers State Police Command, Omoni Nnamdi, reads: “In keeping with our avowed determination to rid the state of criminal elements and make it habitable for all, Operatives of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit in a sting operation today (yesterday), about 0015hrs, rescued the four NEMA officials who were kidnapped on April 23 on the East/West Road. “The victims have been debriefed and released to their waiting families. “In another development, Operatives of the IGP Monitoring Unit, Aluu, at the wee hours of yesterday, stormed a kidnapping camp at Ozuoba. The hoodlums, on sighting the police, engaged them in a gun battle and Stephen Eze Matthew, aka Wenekanma, a notorious robber/cultist and gang leader of Dey-gbam group terrorising Alakahia and Choba communities, was injured. Wenekanma was said to have killed one Ibe Chime in Alakahia, in a recent attack. “Manhunt is on for fleeing members of the gang “Also at Eleme today, the IGP Monitoring Unit, while working on some clues, stormed a camp at Agboncha sand field forest, belonging to a notorious kidnapping kingpin, Amebe. On arrival, they were greeted with severe gunfire resulting in Amebe’s death, while two others were arrested. “Items recovered include one pump Action Gun, five live cartridges and some expended ones. The war against armed banditry is still raging and the command will stop at nothing until they are history. The public is enjoined to remain unwavering in their commitment to support the police and make the state safe and secure.”