A businessman, Callistus Okafor, at the weekend appealed to acting Inspector General of Police (IG) Mohammed Adamu to prevail on the police in Lagos to resume investigation into an alleged N15 million fraud case he instituted against his friend, Ikechukwu Odogwu. Okafor in 2017 petitioned the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone II, Onikan, accusing Odogwu, a businessman at the International Trade Fair, Ojo, Lagos, of defrauding him of N15.17 million in 2009 under the guise of purchasing 2.5 hectares of land for him at Lugbe 1 Extension, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja. The petitioner, who was living in overseas at the time of the transaction, alleged that Odogwu presented him with purported documents for the land, which he went to verify at the FCT Municipal Area Council (AMAC) upon his return to the country, but was told the documents were fake. Okafor said the documents provided by Odogwu were Irrevocable Power of Attorney purportedly given to his company by another company, as well as receipts, offer of the term of grant/conveyance of approval said to have emanated from the council. He said he was forced to petition the police in 2017 after efforts to recover his money failed, adding that the case had since been stalled for unknown reasons. In the course of the investigation, it was gathered that a letter was sent to the FCT Department of Land with respect to plots MF8034 and CP8047, which Odogwu purportedly acquired for Okafor, but it was discovered that the plots were not on the list of allocations forwarded to the Zonal Planning office by AMAC, neither was the said N15million reflected in any of the purchases. Based on the findings, it was learnt that Odogwu was arrested for alleged conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretence, stealing and forgery, to which he signed an undertaking to refund Okafor’s money, but allegedly reneged. Consequently, a case was filed in court and Odogwu’s alleged refusal to present himself for trial led to the judge issuing a bench warrant against him. The investigating team was said to have been unable to re-arrest him, prompting the complainant’s involvement of the IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT), who apprehended the suspects and handed them over ahead of the next adjourned date. But a purported call from a commissioner of police in one of the Southwest states and a man that claimed to be a presidential special adviser ordered Odogwu’s immediate release, with threat to arrest members of the IRT, who arrested him, it was learnt. Okafor said he was forced to cry out publicly as a result of the pressures from certain quarters, adding that all he was after was to get his money back from Odogwu. But Odogwu denied defrauding his friend, insisting that he was also a victim of the alleged fake land deal, having bought from one Mrs. Tafilda. He told reporters on the phone that after Okafor raised issues on the authenticity of the documents, he (Odogwu) lodged a complaint against the seller in Abuja, which led to her arrest alongside an accomplice of hers. Odogwu appealed to Okafor to join forces with him and two others who fell victim to the land scam, instead of accusing him for a crime he did not commit.