The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has heaped the blame for the prevailing widespread despondency, depression and misery in the country on President Muhammadu Buhari and the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). Urging Nigerians to uphold and support one another in love at these trying times, the party said there was urgent need to check the rising social degeneration in the nation, particularly suicide. In a statement Sunday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the main opposition party said the sad turn of events was worsened by the “rigging” of the 2019 presidential  election. It described as a national tragedy, the rising spate of suicides, slavery mission abroad, divorces, child abandonment and other social degeneration occasioned by the worsening economic hardship, poverty, hunger and rising insecurity under the “incompetent, corrupt, divisive and manipulative” APC administration. The main opposition party further lamented that the prevailing social ills was a direct response to bad governance, stressing that the citizens are overwhelmed by gloom. It stated that Nigerians have lost hope, particularly after their majority vote for a new, purposeful and result-oriented President in the PDP candidate, Atiku Abubakar, was subverted with “brazen impunity”. The statement said, “In the last few months, the news media has been awash with horrible reports of teenage suicide in our country. “Banditry, insurgency, marauding, bloodletting and kidnapping with unmentionable ransoms, have almost become daily occurrences. Our citizenry is now battling with the worst kind of siege mentality. “Constitutional violations, human rights abuses, arbitrary arrests, extra-judicial killings, assault on perceived dissenting voices and attempt at annexation of our institutions of democracy, particularly the judiciary, signposts a nation in dire strait. “Misery has set in. This is evident in the shrinking of our nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to 2.1percent in the first quarter of 2019. “It is saddening that at the time Nigerians ought to be celebrating; they are rather forlorn, committing suicide and exiting the country in droves. “Most Nigerians have become downhearted in the face of an administration that wrecked our once robust economy and divided our people; in the face of worsening joblessness, piling bills, hunger and diseases; in the face of incompetence, lies, and unfulfilled promises of free homes, monthly allowance to unemployed youth and the poor, bringing the naira to the same value as the US Dollar, creating of five million new jobs, ending of insurgency in three months and myriad of other false promises. “Instead, what our nation has witnessed is an official entrenchment and elevation of incompetence, deceit, propaganda, failure and cabal mentality on the corridors of power; a situation where the only achievement is the foisting of economic recession and mortgaging of the future of our nation with the accumulation of N24.39 trillion debt, with no tangible project to show. “It is instructive to state that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration has obstinately refused to allow any scrutiny of its books, knowing that they are catalogues of corruption, treasury looting, violations, impunity and acts that have brought our nation to its knees”. The party however called on Nigerians not to despair but stand firm in their collective determination to retrieve the “stolen” presidential mandate at the tribunal. That, the PDP said, was the only way Nigerians can have an administration that truly cares for them and which has the competence to return the nation on the deserved path of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity”. 