Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Acting Chairman Ibrahim Magu has expressed pains over the level of values degeneration among youth. He stressed the need to act fast to save the country’s future. According to a statement by the commission’s Acting Head, Media & Publicity Tony Orilade, Magu spoke through the Commission’s Ibadan Zonal Head, Friday Ebelo. He led a team of officers on a courtesy visit to the Oyo State Directorate of the National Orientation Agency (NOA). The EFCC boss sought NOA’s assistance in pushing the Commission’s anti-corruption message to the larger society, especially the youth, who are to take over the mantle of leadership. He lamented the rate at which the youth are engaging in cyber-related crimes, adding that efforts to sensitise the public on the menace must be sustained. The NOA is an agency of the Federal Government saddled with the responsibility of communicating government policy, promoting patriotism, national unity and development of the Nigerian society. While commending NOA’s reach, Magu charged the agency to explore its strength to ensure a safe future for the country. “We need to synergise on how to get back on track,” he said while admonishing parents to always guide and check their wards’ activities. Oyo State Director of NOA, Mrs. Dolapo Dosunmu, reaffirmed the good and long-standing relationship between the two agencies, assuring that her agency will always be ready to assist the Commission in achieving its goals. She also stated that NOA will work out modalities to involve the EFCC in its activities to sensitize the public on issues that relate to economic and financial crimes. The EFCC team had earlier visited the Oyo/Osun Command office of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), where the Service assured the Commission of its support in efforts to wage effective war against economic and financial crimes in the country. While receiving the EFCC team in his office at the Customs House, Agodi, Ibadan, the Area Comptroller, Abdullahi Zulkifli, described the existing relationship between the two agencies as “mutual and collaborative”. He said apart from generating huge revenue for the government, the NCS is also empowered by Nigeria’s constitution to enforce relevant laws designed to prevent influx of contraband into the country, adding that the two agencies need each other to achieve their respective mandates. “Our job is not only to collect revenue, but also to work with other government agencies. The EFCC has been assisting Customs in so many ways over the years. “We have been up and doing with our job, and we give proper supervision where necessary. Although some aspects of enforcement of the law give us some difficulties, our officers have demonstrated the zeal and courage that have yielded results. “In the course of our activities, we need your collaboration. We are happy to have you today. This visit shows that whenever we need your assistance, we can always call on you and when you need ours do not hesitate to call on us,” he added. The EFCC zonal head had earlier told the NCS leadership in the state that the visit was to familiarise with officers of the command with a view to further strengthens the relationship between the two entities. “We are also here to encourage you in your duties. We are always available to assist you in any way you want us to,” Ebelo reiterated. 