A review of the nation’s economic performance in the first quarter of 2019 by operators in the organised private sector (OPS) focusing on macroeconomic and business operating environments is not palatable as experts say the period was characterised by uncertainty, investor apathy and low performance in key sectors, reports Charles Okonji In the view of players who hold the levers of the key sectors of the economy, the performance of the first quarter of 2019 literally leaves nothing to cheer about. From Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), to the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the National Association of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), the same troubling concerns resonate: economy is underperforming. A cursory view of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI) for the quarter was very clear on the matter. In the view of the MCCI, which is an aggregate opinion of CEOs of member-companies, over 200 of such chief executives agreed that the quarter under review under-performed. Their conclusion was arrived after a computation of the Diffusion Indexes which involved weighing the percentage “Positive” responses by ‘1’ and “Neutral” responses by ‘0.5’, before summing them up. According to the report signed by MAN President, Ahmed Mansur and  made available to The Nation, the MCCI result for the first quarter 2019, standing at 51.3 points, clearly depicts a manufacturing sector that is slightly above the minimum threshold. MAN’s opinion is that an aggregate or composite MCCI above 50 points signifies that manufacturing sector is still struggling as operators have seemingly low confidence level but high expectation that manufacturing performance will improve. MCCI of 50 points is also an indication that the sector is stagnant while below 50 points signifies that manufacturers are losing confidence on the economy while the performance of sub-sectoral groups is retracting. The MCCI First Quarter of 2019 further paints the picture of a manufacturing sector that is struggling.  The confidence level of the CEOs in the sector, though not negative, is dwindling. The 51.3 points, being the outcome of the first quarter MCCI, will form the basis of gauging performance in subsequent quarters. It is evident that the performances of some sectors and industrial zones fell short of the 50 points benchmark; this informs the need to prioritise the solutions and do the needful to improve the perception and overall performance of the manufacturing sector. To improve on this low performance, going forward, MAN demands that government make conscious efforts to address myriad of challenges facing manufacturing and manufacturing companies in the country. The CEOs identified such challenges as including repair and expansion of the roads leading to Lagos Ports, make other ports outside Lagos functional so as to address the gridlock challenges and the associated cost; and making forex more available for purchase of manufacturing inputs that are not locally available/convergence of the existing forex windows. Others are expediting the process of issuing manufacturers the End Users Certificate through liaison with the MAN continue to improve on the power supply and the general upgrade of the nation’s infrastructure; capital expenditure component of the budget should be conscientiously implemented to bridge the infrastructure gap and the design and implement appropriate incentives for the struggling sectors. The manufacturers in the country equally want improve supply of natural gas to them as well as create a flexible condition to improve manufacturers’ access to fund, ensure compliance of tiers of government to the regulation on harmonised taxes so that only the approved ones are implemented and entrenching better monetary policy management to reduce the current high inflation in the economy. Besides, they have also impressed on the government the need to ensure that NAFDAC and DPR agree on who inspects base oil used by the Petroleum Products Sub-group and facilitate long term and low interest loan facilities to the real sector, at no more than 5%. Just as they seek conscientious implementation, monitoring and performance evaluation of Executive Orders 003 for improved patronage of locally produced goods by MDAs and pay particular attention to the development of railways around the national ports. LCCI/NACCIMA on the same page Echoing similar sentiments, President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mr. Babatunde Paul Ruwase said, “It is paramount that investors’ confidence be restored to curb the diminishing uncertainties which marred the first quarter of the country’s economy. The last three years have been characterised by upsides and downsides in the economy. Some of the drivers of economic conditions are internal, while others are external.” The outgoing President of the National Association of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture, (NACCIMA), Iyalode Alba Lawson is also on the same page with her counterparts at the MAN and LCCI. She described the first quarter’s performance as of the unstable and performed below expectation. She attributed the poor performance to the election activities, adding that she is optimistic that the second quarter would perform better if required cautions are not thrown to the wind. GDP growth and investment The National Bureau of Statistics reported that the nation’s GDP grew by 2.4% in the fourth quarter of 2018 compared to third quarter 2018 growth of 1.8 %. The full year GDP growth was 1.9%; better than 2017 of 0.8%. This performance is still weak and fragile. It is also far below 3% annual population growth.  This remains a cause for concern due to its implications for poverty and sustainable growth in the country. The government should therefore commit to policies and programme that will accelerate economic growth and ensure that the growth rate surpasses the rate of growth of population. Private sector investment is a critical growth driver; therefore, the government should commit to the creation of an enabling environment to bring about a quantum leap in private investment. Consequently, tax policy, trade policy, monetary policy, and foreign exchange policy must be in alignment with this objective. Economic management philosophy The LCCI recognises the Economic Recovery Growth Plan [ERGP] as the main economic policy document of the present administration. The plan underscores the philosophy of private sector led economy. It is therefore important for government policies and actions to be in tandem with the contents and direction of ERGP. The private sector should be positioned to play the role expected of it in this important policy document. This economy is blessed with quality entrepreneurs that can transform our huge potentials into concrete outcomes and value creation if they have the right environment. Funding government operations Top government functionaries have repeatedly expressed concerns over the funding gap that exists in government. It is therefore important to quickly develop a fiscal sustainability strategy as the administration progresses into its second term. We need to deal urgently with the cost of governance as well as the issue of value for money in government expenditure. We recognize that there is a correlation between investment growth, GDP performance and tax revenue. This underscores the very important role that investment can play in boosting the revenue of government. As investment grows, job creation will improve, and tax revenue will be positively impacted. The government also needs to watch the growth of recurrent expenditure in order to give more room for infrastructure financing. Currently, the summation of recurrent expenditure and debt service is equal to total government revenue. This financing structure is certainly not sustainable; what this means is that capital project will naturally be funded by borrowed funds. It is important to put in place an appropriate Public Private Partnership to attract private capital in the financing of bankable public sector projects. Economic integration The LCCI is aware that there are arguments for and against Economic Integration, either at regional or continental level. However, we are of the view that the Nigerian economy has more to gain by being part of the economic integration process at the regional level (ECOWAS) and at the continental level (AFCFTA). Also, the outgoing President of NACCIMA argued that signing of AFCFTA will rather reposition the Nigerian economy to become more competitive. “This will help the government and the OPS to fine-tune their processes as well as improving on the ease of doing business. We appreciate the concerns of the manufacturers on competitiveness issues, especially arising from possible non-adherence to the rule of origin by some of the participating countries,” she stressed. On his part, the Director General of LCCI, Dr. Muda Yusuf advised that the government safeguard measures and put in place protective processes that will shield the vulnerable sectors of the economy and to also ensure that there is effective enforcement of the rules of origin. “Once this is done, we request that Nigeria signs the AFCFTA.” Aggregate MCCI The aggregate Manufacturers CEO’s Index for the first quarter of 2019 stood at 51.3 points which is slightly above the 50 points benchmark of good performance. The indexes of Current Business Condition (45.5 points) and Current Employment Condition (38 points) were not very encouraging owing to inability of manufacturers to operate at close to full capacity. However, based on the responses of manufacturers, indexes of Business Condition in the next ‘3’ months (54.5 points); Employment condition in the next ‘3’ months (52.5 points); and Production Level in the next ‘3’ months (65.5 points) suggest that manufacturing CEOs have confidence that the operating environment will improve, leading to increase in manufacturing employment and production level in the second quarter of the year Looking at various sectors, six sub-sectors recorded slightly above or exactly the 50 points benchmark of good performance in the following order: Domestic/Industrial Plastics, Rubber & Foam (62.6); Pulp, Paper & Paper Products, Printing, Publishing & Packaging (60.5); Motor Vehicle & Misc. Assembly (56.6); while Food, Beverage and Tobacco, Textile, Wearing Apparel, Carpet, Leather and Leather Footwear and Wood & Wood Products including furniture all stood at 50 points indicating that these sectors recorded minimum performance in the first quarter of 2019. Four other sub-sectors recorded below 50 points in the following order: Chemical & Pharmaceuticals (47.5); Electrical & Electronics (46.8), Basic Metal, Iron & Steel, Fabricated Metal (44.1) and Non-Metallic Mineral Products recorded 44 points.  Based on these indexes, it is therefore important that while paying attention to improving the level of activities in the sectors generally, the sectors whose performance fell short of 50 points benchmark should be given specific focus. The review of the sector on the zonal front showed similar picture of mixed performance as seven branches in the following order recorded above average performances: Oyo/Ondo/Osun/Ekiti (80.1 points); Rivers (72 points); Kwara/Kogi (69.9 points) while Ikeja (53.8 points), Ogun (53.5 points) and Kano with (53.3 points) completes the number of zones with positive performance in the first quarter of 2019. Kaduna (49.9 points), Edo/Delta (46.7 points), Apapa (40 points), Bauchi/Benue/Plateau (39.8 points), Abuja (37.5 points), Imo (35.7 points) and Enugu/Anambra with (35 points) all fell below the minimum benchmark for good performance.  It is therefore important that the branches that fell below the 50 points standard should be given special focus by first diagnosing the peculiarity of their challenges and proffer solutions to address observed challenges with dispatch. Of the majority of those interviewed, 40 percent disagreed that patronage of Nigeria manufactured products has improved due to Executive Order 003 which mandated all government establishments to make Nigerian manufactured goods first choice in their procurement processes. However, 28 percent agreed, while the remaining 32 percent were not sure as to whether Executive Order 003 has improved government patronage of Nigerian manufacture goods. No doubt, Executive Order 003 is a novel.  However, there is need for proper monitoring and evaluation of the processes to ensure that all MDAs conform to the provisions of EO 003. 