African Alliance Insurance Plc said it recorded a 78 per cent increase in gross premium in first quarter (Q1) this year compared to the same period of last year. Its Managing Director, Mrs Funmi Omo, in a statement, explained yesterday ahead of the firm’s release of its audited financials, said the firm has grown strategically during the past year. She said: “In the same Quarter 1, we paid claims worth N1.8 billion as against N1.5 billion in the same period last year. We are in a strong financial position, and our recent investments and decisions back this. To further demonstrate its commitment towards financial inclusion and its brand promise to protect the future of every Nigerian, the company recently embarked on a nationwide Takaful campaign aimed at spreading kindness nationwide. The campaign is a call to spread kindness and work together towards achieving life’s goals. “In response to the campaign, one of our customers commented: ‘Your Takaful services have been excellent. Your account managers remained impressive in relationship management, and most importantly, payment of claims have been prompt. Hence, the reason I have been able to refer more people to get your Takaful Plan over the years”. “The company recently embarked on its first rebranding campaign since its 58-year existence. The rebranding, led by me, was the first in the company’s history. This is in a bid to refresh the brand and align its internal digital transformation to its outward, youthful look and feel. The new logo boasts of two solid shades of blue and diamond shape. Life is precious to every one of us. There is no other country in the world where people are resilient and determined to make the most out of life. Our new diamond logo demonstrates how special our customers are to us.” She added that the company’s focus on digital transformation will not only boost internal process efficiency but take the conversations to the customers on the digital channels for better customer experience. “Right now, a customer can take a policy from the comfort of their homes on our website or through social media. It does not get easier than this. “  