he National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) in Abuja has ordered the immediate reinstatement of the suspended Director General (DG) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr. Mounir Gwarzo. Justice Sanusi Kado, in his judgment yesterday, held that the Minister of finance, named as second defendant in the suit, lacked the power to suspend the claimant. Justice Kado, who rejected the preliminary objection filed against Gwarzo’s suit, held that the suit was not status barred, as argued by the defendants. The judge noted that the issue in dispute was not about Gwarzo’s position as SEC’s DG, but that the issue was about the person with the power to suspend him. Former Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, had on November 29, 2017, suspended Gwarzo in a controversial circumstance. Adeosun had hinged her decision on allegations of allegations of financial impropriety levelled against Gwarzo but Gwarzo had protested that he was suspended to cover up investigation into corporate governance abuses involving a leading oil and gas company. Justice Kado said the Minister of Finance did not have the power to suspend the Gwarzo because he was not an employee of SEC. The judge noted that in the absence of a board, the Minister of Finance only has supervisory power, which does not include disciplinary power to suspend the DG. Justice Kado said it was only the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, on the directive of the President that has the power of suspension. He said the Minister’s role was that of recommendation. The judge agreed with Gwarzo’s lawyer, Abdulhakeem Mustapha (SN) that the Administrative Panel of Inquiry that indicted the Gwarzo was neither a court of law nor  a quasi-judicial body, but established for a fact-finding duty. Justice Kado consequently declared that Gwarzo’s suspension was null, void and of no effect. The judge set aside the recommendation of the Administrative Panel of Inquiry set up by the second defendant (the Minister of Finance). Justice Kado proceeded to order that Gwarzo be reinstated as the DG of SEC to complete his five-year tenure. The judge equally ordered that all salaries, allowances and entitlements accrued to Gwarzo should be paid to him in full. It should be recalled that Justice Hussein Baba-Yusuf of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), had on April 16, 2019, discharged and acquitted Gwarzo on a criminal charge brought against him by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) in relation to charges of financial misappropriation. Gwarzo was, among others accused of collecting severance package worth N104.85 million while still in service in violation of the Civil Service rules. Meanwhile, there are insinuations that the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), might be considering preparing fresh charges against Gwarzo. A staff of the SEC said that officials of ICPC came to SEC looking for additional evidence against Gwarzo. Another official of the Commission said the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) could appeal the judgement of the NICN reinstating Gwarzo. Capital market operators, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said the court judgements have vindicated the suspended DG, adding that these would positively impact on the perception of the Nigerian capital market. 