Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Federal College of Education, Eha-Amufu (FCEE) Chapter, has bestowed ‘Distinguished labour-friendly awards’ on eight prominent Nigerians for their contributions towards the development of education in Nigeria. The honours were given during the sixth national conference of the union, which held at the college. Those honoured included: the Provosts, Federal College of Education, Eha-Amufu, Dr Pauline Ngozi Ikwuegbu; her counterparts from Federal College of Education (Technical), Umunze, and Nwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe, Dr Tessy O. Okoli; and Dr Ifenyinwa E. Osegbo. Others were Dr Lawan Bukar, who is FCEE Governing Council Chairman, and Dr Busuyi Mekusi. Bukar was honoured together with two of his council members, Messrs. Anya Udensi, and Aliyu Ibrahim Ibrahim. Also honoured was a former member of Council, FCET Umunze ,Abudu Ibrahim Radda. The union branch chairman, Comrade Matthias Onyishi, said the recognition was to appreciate the awardees for their roles in improving education in the country and to encourage other Nigerians to emulate them. Oyinshi noted that the theme of the conference: ‘Emerging issues in education in Nigeria: The way forward”, would afford members the opportunity to brainstorm and interact on some issues that may be detrimental to the actualisation of the goals of colleges of education in particular, and education in generally. He identified some of the problems bedevilling colleges of education to iclude: “appointment of a non-teacher as the Executive Secretary of its regulatory body, the National Council for Colleges of Education (NCCE); delay in granting full autonomy to colleges of education to run dual mode in teacher education programmes; and non-payment of peculiar academic allowances (PAA) in most colleges; among others. In her address, the host Provost Dr Ikwuegbu praised COEASU for choosing the institution for the conference. “I do expect that at the end, a sound and workable communique will be articulated and made available to government, the regulatory bodies and other stakeholders for utilisation and improvement on the existing curricular,” she said. A keynote address titled: “Globalisation of Nigeria education: The emerging issues” was presented by Prof Lawrence Okwudili Eya of Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike. Earlier in a remark, Enugu State Commissioner for Education, Prof Uche Eze, noted that pedagogies in education are fast changing, adding that the standard of teachers produced by teachers’ training institutions in the country is declining. “It is obvious that the quality of the product of the teachers training institutions is going down gradually to the extent that parents are complaining about the quality of some teachers in their wards school. “If we don’t look at those factors that are affecting our products, before long, all of us will regret it. Knowledge generation and dissemination are central to the promotion of teaching and learning.”