WHEN the Director of Information of the National Assembly, Emmanuel Agada, notified Nigerians of the intention to institute a new and draconian regime of media accreditation and parliamentary coverage, it was natural to suspect the involvement of the leadership of the legislature. But both Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara have denied being privy to the new regulations, now since suspended. Both principal officers are likely to be telling the truth. If they did not permit such draconian rules for the 8th NASS, why would they countenance it now on the eve of their departure? Among the 20 new conditions to be fulfilled by a media establishment before accreditation is given are the following: (a) Evidence of certificate of incorporation of the media organisation and evidence of membership of professional bodies for media organisations. (b) Proof of membership of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) with registration number, code of certification from the National Library for the media organisation, functional bureau in Abuja (Staff Strength not less than 5 editorial staff and daily circulation of 40,000 copies for the print media with evidence to support the claimed circulation figure. (c) Media Houses must be publishing daily and on weekend (Applicable to Online Media). (d) Re-certification form must be signed and endorsed by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Media organisation Bureau Chief, City Editor as the case may be. (e) The Media organisation concerned must have experience in covering proceedings of the National Assembly for at least two (2) years before applying for permanent accreditation. (f) All media organisations will submit a copy of their income tax return for the last two years. By quickly repudiating the draconian regulations, the outgoing leadership of the National Assembly has shown sensitivity to the grievous concoction designed to abridge press freedom and invariably circumscribe free speech. Furthermore, the legislative leaders have disclosed that the circumstances surrounding the formulation of the regulations, without any approval, would be investigated. It is not certain what investigations would unearth, or whether the legislative leaders would treat the matter with the severity it deserves and assign blames and sanctions for those involved in that unseemly and needless plot against free press. But whatever the final outcome of the investigations or punishment meted out to anyone, it has become abundantly clear that free speech and free press are still threatened. It is unlikely that Mr Agada would on his own volition embark on such fateful and deeply troubling and controversial measures to abridge press freedom. He probably has backers; or perhaps he was even instructed to adumbrate the new press restrictions. The decision to publish such nefarious regulations not only speaks to the dangers the press still faces, which threats it erroneously believed it had overcome after decades of bruising battles with mostly the executive branch, it also indicates the shambolic manner the National Assembly is administered. It should trouble Nigerians that their parliament, which is really the first symbol of democracy, harbours both fifth columnists and officials dedicated to negating the fundamentals of democracy and neutralising the principles and practice of lawmaking. Moreover, the suspended accreditation guidelines also imply that the key administrative figures who run the National Assembly are not fundamentally persuaded about the principles of democracy, let alone the advantages and uses of free speech. It is dangerous that such persons occupy key parliamentary offices. Even if the orchestra composing the draconian measures are alien to the legislature, it still speaks to the lack of conviction of NASS administrators that they easily acquiesced to those abominable guidelines. Those who work in the parliament, either as administrators or lawmakers, should be genuinely persuaded about the concept of democracy, how to safeguard its practice, and the threats that are capable of undermining it. Judging from the suspended accreditation guidelines, there was no indication at all of that conviction. The outgoing principal officers of the 8th NASS may be incapacitated from applying sanctions to those who inspired the articles of repression against the press, they should however not be intimidated from at least identifying them for the public to know where the problem is coming from. It will help to sustain democracy and press freedom when enemies of free speech are exposed and disgraced. The press may not always function with the highest degree of responsibility, sadly like all other arms of government, and the public may even be exasperated by the way the press has sometimes irresponsibly execute their mandate, but everyone knows, minus the denizens of NASS who wrote the objectionable regulations, that an imperfect press is still far better than a hamstrung and shackled press. The press itself must now be jolted out of its complacency, knowing that it has enemies within and without. Its administrators have often professed and regulated their industry cavalierly. The aborted NASS accreditation guidelines should serve as a wake-up call to retune their profession, regulate themselves far better than they have done, and prepare the media for the complex challenges of the future. The alternatives, not to say consequences of dithering, are too grim to even contemplate.