The absence of a defendant, James Amore, on Monday stalled his arraignment at an Ikeja High Court alongside four other oil marketers for allegedly stealing one billion naira petroleum products from the United Bank for Africa (UBA). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Amore was to be arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) alongside Thompson Omoietan, Adeleke Lasun, Funmilola Oyerinde and Shadrack Adegoke. They are to face a three-count charge of conspiracy to steal, stealing and forgery. Addressing the court, Amore’s Cousel, Mr O.S. Akinyemi, explained that his client was absent, due to ill health. “I’m very sorry about the absence of the fifth defendant – Amore. About an hour ago, he called me that he has been admitted in a hospital somewhere around Magboro. “I tried to reach him but he wasn’t picking the phone. During my earlier conversation with him, I told him to ask the medical doctor of the hospital to send a medical report to this honourable court. “This is the predicament that we currently find ourselves in my lord,” he said. Responding, Mr Kayode Oni, the prosecuting counsel for the EFCC, expressed his displeasure over the development. “This matter is to be for arraignment and technically, arraignment has been stalled again, due to the absence of the fifth defendant. “We were sitting here for over an hour and Mr Akinyemi failed to inform me about the absence of the fifth defendant. “Even though he is speaking from the bar, my lord should take his submission with a pinch of salt. He said the defendant called him an hour ago yet he did not inform me about his absence,” Oni said. Adjourning the case, Justice Oyefeso said: “I’m going to give one more date, if he does not appear in court at the next date, a bench warrant will be issued against him. “This is a criminal matter. He does not have the liberty not to come to court. “This case is adjourned to May 28 for arraignment.” According to the charge sheet which was made available to NAN, the five defendants committed the offences in September 2011, alongside 13 others who are currently at large. Those at large are – Ngozi Okoye, Menol Oil and Gas Ltd., Faicek Petroluem Ltd., Cynthia Gboneme, Patience Onyebuchi, Godwin Onyeke and Moses Ojera. Others are Umanah Bassey, Onwuka Ibisi, Hyginus Nwosu, Solomon Okpithe, Gbolade Otukoya and Godwin Omoke. According to the EFCC, the defendants allegedly conspired and stole petroleum products worth one billion naira property of UBA. The defendants and their alleged accomplices also purportedly forged documents, titled Supervisory Discharge Certificate, addressed to the Managing Director of Menol Oil and Gas Ltd. The offences contravene Sections 278, 285, 359, 363 and 409 of the Criminal Code Law of Lagos State, 2011.