Former Abia State governor and senator-elect for Abia North, Dr. Orji Kalu, has urged Nigerians to sustain their support for President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. The former governor noted that the second term of the current administration will be used to consolidate on the achievements of the first term. He said the determined efforts of President Buhari have manifested in all ramifications, stressing that the political class must desist from making inflammatory utterances capable of causing disharmony among Nigerians. Kalu, who faulted perpetrators of hate campaign for using political, religious and ethnic sentiments to mislead the unsuspecting public, urged Nigerians to resist politicians with no proven track record of achievements. Acknowledging the growing popularity of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Southeast, the senator-elect urged the leadership of the party to consider Ndigbo for key appointments in all arms of government. In a statement yesterday by his media office, Kalu expressed appreciation to Nigerians for voting en masse for President Buhari, adding that the future of Nigeria is bright under the current administration. He said: “As Nigeria records another feat with the swearing in of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office, I am optimistic that this historic milestone will translate into a better life for Nigerians. “I equally salute the returning and new governors, who are being sworn in today as chief executives of their states. The elections are over and it is time for serious governance. “The political class must live up to expectations at all levels of government. “Nigerians deserve a quality life and, as such, policies and programmes that will have meaningful impacts on the society must be formulated and executed. The time is now for politicians and other stakeholders to work harmoniously to build a decent society. “Let us forget our political, ethnic and religious differences for the sake of nation building.” 