Before January 1, 2017, the 18 local government areas in Edo State were in wretched state. The total monthly revenue generated by the local governments was a paltry N30 million. It was a usual sight to see local government workers and pensioners in the streets of Bénin-City protesting non-payment of salaries and pension arrears. What made the councils broke was simple. The revenue collection was in the hands of private individuals. It was used as political patronage for party leaders who pay peanuts to the councils’ coffers. It, therefore, became difficult for elected council officials to execute projects as the allocation from Abuja and the paltry IGR could not pay salaries and pension. The individuals collecting the revenue were seen as major determinants to securing victories during elections. So, they were regarded as sacred cows. On January 1, 2017, Governor Godwin Obaseki dropped a bombshell that shocked the All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders across the state. He banned the use of contractors for collection of revenue for both the state and local government areas, even as he insisted that government is capable of collecting its revenue. Before Obaseki announced the ban, he had asked his Deputy, Philip Shaibu, to head a committee on revenue. Shaibu met severally with various stakeholders and the so-called tax consultants and advised them on the need to diversify. He told them to bring their boys to be trained by the state government on the new system to be introduced. The tax consultants refused and thought the state government would not risk taking revenue collection from them. The Deputy Governor scouted over 900 boys who were trained as enforcers. Their duty was to ensure that market women, drivers and others pay the appropriate rates and levies. Governor Obaseki introduced e-ticketing and directed officials of local government to collect revenue. The e-ticketing yielded good results as daily income of over N500, 000 was realised daily from nine locations in Oredo against N42, 000 that was previously remitted by the private contractors. In Esan West, the daily revenue generated was between N68,000 and N108,000 daily but the new method increased it to between N1 million and N1.5 million daily. Oredo Local Government Area raked in over N40 million within the first five months. Currently, only six local government areas in Edo State owe salary arrears from between three and 12 months before 2017. The increased revenue has also made payment of retirees of local government to be paid promptly. Some councils such as Ikpoba-Okha can now pay salaries without waiting for allocations from  the Federal Government. Esan South East launched a transport scheme without borrowing money from any financial institution. The total monthly revenue of the 18 local government areas is above N220 million. Chairman of Esan West Local Government Area, Patrick Aguinede, said he looked forward to collecting N20 million monthly as IGR. “If I get N20 million monthly, why will I not construct roads? Why will I not make health centres functional? Why will I not provide basic amenities and pay salaries? My desire is to raise money to satisfy the people,” he said. Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Jimoh Ijegbai, a lawyer, said the chaotic system of revenue collection has been buried and would not be allowed to return. Ijegbai noted that the new system driven by technology has brought sanity and blocked leakages. He said: “We are witnesses to the chaotic system of revenue collection before now. Obaseki government is based on the rule of law where force is not allowed.  A system where they will beat people up to collect revenue is dead. “The first thing Obaseki did was to ensure a harmonised revenue collection law was passed in 2017. In January before the law was passed, the total monthly revenue collection for the 18 local government areas was N33 million. At the close of last year, it has jumped to over N210 million monthly. “It has brought civility in whatever we are doing. It is cashless policy and it is driven by technology. In four local government areas where we are now using scratch cards, we got dealers interested in partnering with the government. They buy the cards from government and go back and sell to the drivers. We eliminated leakages in the system. The merit of the new system is that it is more civil, blocks leakages and enhanced collection of revenue. “Across the 18 local government areas, you can see most of them doing very well. They are now embarking on development projects. Esan South East Local Government Area just floated a transport line without borrowing money from any financial institution. Ikpoba-Okha that was hitherto indebted has cleared all the arrears. “We have eliminated consultants in this new system. We don’t allow consultants collect our revenue. We now have enforcers who go out to ensure the scratch cards are actually used. These people are meaningfully engaged across the 18 local government areas in collaboration with road transport unions. We have eliminated double collections. “The governor made it clear that those who were collecting revenues before can fit into the new system. Those who want to learn are free. We are open; the government is transparent in its dealings. They are amenable to training. We did not bar anybody from keying into the new system. We want to be civil in what we are doing.” Critics of Governor Obaseki, especially those opposed to his second term ambition, said the disbandment of the private revenue collectors led to lots of job loss as boys hitherto engaged are now roaming the streets.