Ahead of the forthcoming 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) to be held in Egypt, Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has yet underlined the impact of the team’s army of sponsors reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr recently underlined the kind of symbiotic relationship that should subsist between football and its army of sponsors. With an interview roundly conducted, the photographer then requested for extra snapshots within the natural ambiance of the hotel edifice but the Franco-German coach would only agree to this special demand on one condition saying ‘I have to identify with our sponsor’; the 65-year-old coach then pulled on the branded Aiteo baseball cap and the cameraman just clicked away amidst banters. Such for instance has been the impactful romance between the ‘global-focussed’ Nigerian energy company and Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) under the watch of its chairman and CEO, Benedict Peters so much so that stakeholders were exultant about the excellent relationship, even as Rohr underlines the support of sponsors of the Super Eagles towards a successful campaign at the forthcoming AFCON in Egypt. “We have excellent partnerships with these companies (sponsors),” Rohr told The Nation. “The Aiteo Group is very close to us and I met nice people from Peak in the ‘Breakfast with Rohr’; and Simba gave me a wonderful motorcycle. “TVS is a very sympathetic sponsor and they (sponsors) see that positive image of our young team is good for developing business.” Indeed, the Aiteo Group than any other company has in recent time has committed so much to Nigerian football lately and they are one of the reasons the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) now has a modicum of financial independence. In 2017, the Aiteo Group reportedly offered a US$8.2 million package of sponsorship the NFF to cater for funding the salaries of coaches amongst others. The company has since taken over the sponsorship of both the glamorous Challenge Cup otherwise known as the Aiteo Federation Cup as well as Nigeria Women Premier League. Incidentally, the Aiteo CEO Benedict Peters remains a conservative figure and could for a fact, be said to shun publicity like a plague. For all   of his investment in the oil & gas and agriculture subsectors , Peter who turned 52  last December, hardly get interviewed face-to-face  but there is no doubt that he’s enjoying the camaraderie with  his new found love in the world of football as espoused in  his personal blog. “Can you think of anything which galvanises different people — regardless of race, religion or language — more than football?” he asked rhetorically in one of his posts. “More than anything, football crosses cultures and unites. “Like a shared pursuit of a pan-African economic powerhouse, football should be held up as one of the new pillars of a pan-African future. If economic bridges can be built in trade; then cultural bridges can be built in sports. “They are the two strongest pillars of African unity that every single person can get behind, and will let every single person get ahead. Ask any young African if they are a football fan and they will surely say ‘yes’. “ But ask them which team they support and the answer is more likely to be Manchester United, Barcelona or Real Madrid, than Rivers Angels, Accra Hearts of Oak or Canon Yaoundé.” Apart from  the largesse to  the NFF and its competitions, the Aiteo Group are currently the proud sponsor of the annual CAF Football Awards since 2018 after the exit of Nigeria Telecom outfit, Globacom Offered Peters: “Aiteo’s new sponsorship of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Awards got me thinking: through the unity of our people we have created a shared identity, and nowhere is that shared identity more apparent, more celebrated and more unifying than in football.” Meanwhile, the Super Eagles’ TMO (Team Media Officer) Toyin Ibitoye was equally forthcoming on the impact the Aiteo Group towards the development of Nigerian football as well as the glide of the Super Eagles. “The Aiteo Group’s involvement in Nigerian football has been all positive and no negatives,” the experienced broadcast journalist told The Nation. “It used to be common place in our football for our national team coaches to be owed for several months. Whether we agree to it or not, owing coaches backlog of salaries and allowances impacts on their morale and motivation to succeed. “But with the Aiteo Group on board, our coaches now have only one job to do….perform and lead the team to victory and they are no longer bothered about their salaries because it is no longer the practice to owe those wages.” Ibitoye continued: “Apart from solving the salary problem, Aiteo Group has also made it a habit to motivate the players of the Super Eagles before crucial games. It is enough motivation in itself to play for Nigeria but when you are also offered mouth-watering incentives to do it by Aiteo…you are having ‘sweeteners’ in an already nutritious meal. “Every member of the Super Eagles- coaches, players and the officials love to see officials of Aiteo in our camp before games. They have become very crucial part of our big and very happy family.”  