An Igando Customary Court, Lagos, yesterday dissolved a 41- year-old marriage between Mrs. Mabel Alli and her husband, Pastor Richard, over incest. The President, Mr. Adeniyi Koledoye, said it appeared that the estranged couple were tired of the marriage as efforts to reconcile them failed. “Since both parties agreed to the dissolution of the marriage, this court has no choice but to dissolve it. “The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Mabel Alli and Pastor Richard dissolved. Both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife. “Each of you should go your separate ways. The court wishes both of you well in your future endeavours,” he said. The petitioner, Mabel, had approached the court to end her marriage to Richard, for impregnating her sister and their daughter. “My husband sexually molested three of our daughters. After impregnating my sister, he took one of our daughters to hospital to have an abortion. “Our 19-year-old daughter also reported to me that he always sneaks into her room to have sex with her and I have caught him in the act. “My friends and domestic workers are not spared. I have caught him with them too. He is just a womaniser.” the estranged wife alleged. The 63-year-old businesswoman said her husband was fetish and also wanted to use her for money ritual in order to finance his political ambition. Mabel alleged that her husband does not take care of the children. The mother of four begged the court to terminate the union, saying she was no longer interested in it. However, Richard, who denied the allegations, welcomed the divorce suit, saying he too was no longer interested in the marriage. The 66-year-old pastor denied sleeping with his wife’s sister, friends, housemaids and daughters. He said it was his wife who took their daughter to a doctor for abortion. Richard said he never took his wife to any herbalist and had never threatened to kill her. The respondent said he went to Kenya to attend prayer conference and not to get power and charms as his wife had alleged