MOHAMMED Adamu was yesterday confirmed Inspector-General (IG) by the Nigeria Police Council (NPC). The Council, chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, confirmed Adamu’s appointment during its meeting at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Members of the council expressed satisfaction with Adamu’s performance since his appointment in an acting capacity on January 15. He was appointed at the expiration of the tenure of former IG Ibrahim Idris, who retired at 60, the statutory retirement age. Speaking to reporters after his confirmation, the IG promised to re-organise the police for efficiency to fight banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and general insecurity across the country. According to him, he briefed the council on the security situation in the country and the efforts being made to tackle the situation. The IG said that after his presentations on the strategies put in place to address security, his appointment was confirmed. He said: “I was ushered in and I briefed the council on the security situation in the country and the efforts we are putting in place, or have put in place to address the security challenges.  After the presentation, I was confirmed as the IGP.” IG Adamu said that his confirmation signalled a huge task to the entire force to put in more energy in addressing the security situation. He said: “What it means for us is that we have been given a huge task to make sure that we provide security within the country and make the country crime-free, which means that we have to re-double our efforts. ”Whatever strategy we have put in place, we have to look at it and re-strategise day in, day out to make sure that the insecurity in the country goes down to the barest minimum. “We have to look at our strategy and re-strategise and also look at our personnel to re-organize the way our system is structured, identify the right personnel in the right places to have them do the job. “So, it requires re-strategising for us to be able to dig deep into what is happening in the Northwest so as to deal with the situation squarely.” Adamu noted that he was sure that the security agencies have what it takes to deal with the situation. “What we need to do is just to re-strategise and then face the criminals squarely,” he said. The NPC has 40 members, including the President, the governors, the IG and the Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC), one-time IG Musiliu Smith. Many of the governors attended yesterday’s meeting. The IG was joined during the briefing by the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor  Kayode Fayemi; Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade and the Special Adviser to the President on Media & Publicity, Femi Adesina. According to Adesina, all members in the council were unanimous that Adamu performed creditably. Section 27 of 1999 Constitution as amended states that the “Nigeria Police Council shall comprise the following members – (a) the President who shall be the Chairman; (b) the Governor of each State of the Federation; (c) the Chairman of the Police Service Commission; and (d) the Inspector-General of Police.” Section 28 states the functions of the Council to include, amongst others, – (a) the organisation and administration of the Nigeria Police Force and all other matters relating thereto (not being matters relating to the use and operational control of the Force or the appointment, disciplinary control and dismissal of members of the Force); (b) the general supervision of the Nigeria Police Force; and (c) advising the President on the appointment of the police. 