House of Representatives member-elect for the Akoko Northeast/Nortwest Constituency in Ondo State, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, is also the Chairman of the ‘First-Time Members Forum’ of the Ninth National Assembly. He speaks with tolulope daramola on the proposed election of principal officers. What led to the formation of the ‘Forum of First-Time Members-Elect’ and what is your population? I will start with the second part of the question. For the All Progressives Congress (APC) and our allied members, we are now 203. We came up with the idea of coming together as a bloc in order to ensure that national interest is protected when discussing issues in the House of Representatives. We are not comfortable with so many things that happened in the 8th National Assembly. We are not saying that they have not done well but we believe that the Ninth National Assembly should be able to do better. We also came together as a forum to ensure that the right leadership is put in place. We want the leadership that would meet the aspirations of the people and the hierarchy of the All Progressives Congress which has the majority seats in the House. Is it fair that the Southwest, which produced the Vice-President, should be jostling for the Speaker of the House of Representatives when other regions have nothing? Politics in Nigeria has always been played based on the North and South considerations. Geo-political zones like the North-Central, North-East and the North-West are part of the northern region while the South-East, South-West and the South-South are part of the southern Nigeria. There are two key presiding officers’ positions in the National Assembly. The first is the Chairman of the National Assembly, who is also the President of the Senate. That position has been zoned to the North. Naturally, the Vice-Chairman, who is also the Speaker of the House of Representatives, has to go to the South for equity, justice and fairness. Having zoned the position of the Speaker to the South, I think the party looked at its strength in the three geopolitical zones there. The APC has four members in the South-East, nine in the South-South, but we have 50 in the South-West. The party, after a thorough job, settled for the region with the highest number of elected members in the South to produce the Speaker. Now that the party has agreed that the South-West should produce the Speaker, the leaders then considered the issue of ranking, competence and reward for loyalty. That was why Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila was picked for the top job. I don’t think anybody with a pure heart should go against the decision of the party. What assurance do you have that all newly elected APC members in the Ninth House of Representatives are happy with the Speaker coming from the Southwest? We have been engaging our colleagues across the geopolitical zones in discussions. Politics is about dialogue and negotiations. We have been doing this and the results have been very fruitful. By the grace of God, we have the support of our members from other geopolitical zones. Everybody is tired of the executive-legislative fight and we want our country to move forward in peace. Patriotic Nigerians from all divides will not hesitate to support the project that would take Nigeria to the next level. Many Nigerians argue that micro-zoning the presiding officers to individuals is nothing but imposition. How do you view this? There is nothing new in what the APC is trying to do. This is the way it is being done all over the world. We have to separate the party from the executive. All legislators are members of the party; members of the executive arm of government are also members of the party. Nigerians voted for the party not for any individual. There is nothing wrong in the leadership of the party, coming together to look at the credentials of its qualified members in the legislature and come up with the best candidates that would help it to actualise its manifesto with relevant legislations in the National Assembly. If the Speaker performs well, it is to the advantage of the party. In any democracy, the party is stronger than the government because the head of government is meant to implement the policies and manifesto of the party. In this case, the party is trying to put its house in order so that it will be able to come up with great policies and programmes that would be beneficial to Nigerians. We don’t want to give excuses for our inability to get certain things right. That is why we want to address any form of hindrance right from the legislature. I don’t think that any member-elect has been able to surpass or equal the performances of Gbajabiamila since he got elected into the federal parliament. What he also has working for him is that he is loved by all members of the House across party lines and geopolitical zones. Many anti-Gbajabiamila lawmakers-elect alleged that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu wants him as the Speaker to boost his presidential ambition in 2023. What is your reaction? I cannot speak for our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. But, the question I will ask those saying that is, has Asiwaju come out in any medium to declare his presidential ambition? Let the time come. Why is your camp actually scared of a secret ballot method to elect presiding officers of the National Assembly? Our camp is not against secret ballot. What we are simply telling Nigerians is that the electorate deserves to know how their members vote. As an elected member of the House, I am not representing myself, but a federal constituency. I think we have to bring the issue of secrecy in the election of principal officers of the National Assembly to an end. Why should the nation spend fortunes to mount electronic voting devices in the chambers when we will not make use of them? We need to really open the National Assembly to Nigerians. Nigerians must know how the representatives voted on all issues including motions, bills and election of the presiding officers. That is the essence of representation. That is democracy. If you take the people out of democracy, then there is no democracy. The current rules of the House provide for open (electronic) voting and secret (ballot) methods. We are saying that electronic voting is better because it is faster and transparent. Some Nigerians are saying that you are probably scared that some APC lawmakers may not support Gbajabiamila, hence your insistence on open ballot. How true is this? With due respect, I take exception to the word ‘coerce’ that you use here. There is no act of coercion. The party did not coerce anybody. This is a family affair. We have our ways of resolving issues. The National Chairman of our party is a former union leader. Crisis resolution and management is a core part of his act of competence. We have mechanisms to sort our issues as a party. We will go into the election as a united front. We are not demanding open voting out of fear. We have nothing to fear because we know that we are in the majority. We are only promoting accountability because our people must know who we vote for. What will your group do if the National Assembly management decides to conduct an open-secret poll, like it did in 2015? We will win by the grace of God, regardless of the voting method adopted. We know that the National Assembly management is sensitive to the yearnings of the majority. I want to believe that the management, led by the Clerk, will not do anything that will jeopardise the interest of Nigerians because they deserve to know and should be informed about the position of their representatives on all issues in the House, starting with the election. I trust the integrity of the management of the National Assembly to listen to the yearnings of the majority of the members-elect, who are the major actors. If we say this is the method we want, I see no reason why the management will go against our position. I am very optimistic that the management will do the needful. APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole said your party does not need the support of the PDP to elect presiding officers  or to even run the parliament. Do you agree with him? It is true that the APC has the majority in the House but I think we have to carry everybody along. By the grace of God, we are looking forward to having the Speaker of the House of Representatives of Nigeria. We will not only carry the PDP members along, but also members of other political parties who are in the minority in the House. We need everybody on board. We need to put our differences aside and work for this country. Don’t you think that the independence of the federal parliament will be compromised with the emergence of the anointed candidates of the APC as presiding officers? We cannot talk of the independence of an arm of government. We can also talk of democracy without the interdependence of the arms of government. I don’t think the independence of the legislature would be compromised if the party candidates emerge as presiding officers. It depends on the character of the person that is being elected. Gbajabiamila has the interest of Nigeria at heart. He is ready to work with the executive. He is not ready to fight with the executive. At the same time, we are not ready to be rubber stamp. We need to put our foot on the ground on many issues, for the benefit of Nigerians. It was the same speaker (Aminu Masari) who was supported by former President Olusegun Obasanjo that also ruled against the plan to seek a third term in office for the (former) president. That the president is supporting excellence, integrity, track records, and performance does not mean that he is expecting a rubber stamp legislature. President (Muhammadu) Buhari believes in dialogue, negotiations and separation of powers. At the same time, we don’t need to be antagonistic to be independent as a legislature. We can work with the executive effectively without compromising our independence and Gbajabiamila is well equipped to do that efficiently. Nigerians are interested in better life, not an executive-legislative rift that would bring nothing to their tables.