An Ilorin Magistrate court in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital on Tuesday ordered the arrest of Commissioner of Commence and Cooperatives, Deacon Tunde Agboola. The court’s order was borne out of the failure of Agboola to appear before the court on allegations of causing bodily harm, and attempted culpable homicide on a broadcast journalist in the state. The broadcast journalist, Alhaji Abdullahi Adisa-Akodudu, was on March 28 reportedly attacked and beaten to coma by suspected hoodlums over a land dispute in llorin metropolis. The incident, it was gathered, occurred at the lrewolede Housing Estate, along Yidi road in llorin. The suspected hoodlums were said to have then demolished two structures on the disputed land. Adisa-Akodudu, who was the chairman of House Owners Association of the estate for over 13 years, is said to be the rightful owner of the land. The journalist was later found in a pool of his blood after sustaining several injuries on his head and leg. Speaking with reporters in Ilorin, counsel to the plaintiff, Yahaya Abdulrasheed Alajo, said that it was the first time that the case came up in court for mentioning. “The case was actually mentioned. We expected the accused persons to take their pleas today, but the first defendant, who is the commissioner, did not show up in court. “For that reason, the court could not go ahead with the case. Attempts were made to serve him court notice but he was evading service of the summon. “So, the court ordered that the warrant of arrest and he be arrested to make him appear in court on adjourned date on June 18, 2019. “The incident is that complainant here, Adisa Akodudu complained before the court that all defendants brought before the court harassed him, beat him and caused bodily injury on him and that attempts were made on his life, an offence under the law. “The accused were brought before the court on allegations of conspiracy, causing bodily injury and making attempts on his life, which is culpable homicide punishable with death. “The matter is about a fight over a piece of land, which had been earlier assigned to our client. “The people thought because they are in government and they think they can do and undo. “They brought thugs, including the commissioner. Our client believed that it’s in the court that he can get justice, and that’s why he was in court. The lawyer added: “First defendant, who is the commissioner, was not in court today, all other four defendants, who are staff of Housing Corporation. “He was not in court despite the fact that he was aware of the case. On several occasions, the court orderly made attempts to serve him hut he refused service. “So, court saw this as an affront on the court and ordered his arrest before the adjourned date”. Exasperated Magistrate Abdulraheem Alege frowned at the failure of the commissioner to appear in court. He then adjourned the case till June 18th.