•As he commissions ultra modern Lagos Theatre in Epe With less than a week to the end of his tenure, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akimwunmi Ambode at the weekend before his kinsmen at Epe said he has served humanIty to his best and posterity will judge him. The out-going governor spoke during the inauguration of a 400- seater ultra modern Lagos theatre in his home town Epe. Ambode expressed gratitude to God for giving him the grace to serve humanity and govern Lagos, expressing fulfillment with the projects executed by his administration within the ancient town of Epe and the adjoining communities. He said it was particularly fulfilling that he was able to implement a number of projects which changed the outlook of the town and made life further comfortable for the people, as well as improve the Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of the State. “This is a more fulfillimg day for me. If there is anything for me to say, it is that I am fulfilled that a day like this can come in the history of this town(Epe). I mean four days to go and in four years, we have turned things around”. “God has given us the grace that I can come back here and actually spend my last weekend of those four years with my people”, expressing delight that among the theatres he established, he has the opportunity  to come and commission the one in Epe. “We are very delighted that among the Art Theatres that we have established, we have the opportunity to come and commission the one in Epe. The first one – the Lagos Theatre in Oregun was commissioned by Mr President and then followed by the one in Igando. That of Badagry will be commissioned on Monday making four out of the six that we had actually planned. Two to go and believing strongly that the vision to actually bring out the best of the talents of our younger ones is part of this structure that you are seeing here,” Governor Ambode said. He said the initiative to construct the theatres across the State was borne out of the vision to create a framework to bring out the creativity and innovative skills of talented youths, as well as serving as a platform to scale up communal bonding among the people. On other initiative in the tourism sector, Ambode said: “We are also renovating Glover Memorial Hall; it’s been fully paid for and in another few months, they should be able to commission it also so that we can have top class tourist attractions in all these locations. People can decide to come and watch a play in Epe and then drive back to Lagos. “I am  very grateful to God. You never planned what you met on the way. Having had that opportunity to be elected as governor and for four years, one is  able to do it in good health and mind. To God be the glory”. “The main purpose of governance is giving back to humanity and serve selflessly. All that we put together, I am happy I was able to do that and God gave me the grace. The fact that I am also leaving in good health, is a sort of fulfilment for me”, he enthused. While describing governance as a continum, Ambode expressed the hope that his successor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu will continue where he will stop. While thanking people of Epe Division for standing by him and the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ambode urged them to also support the incoming government of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to further develop the State. Veteran actress, Joke Silva commended the Governor for the theatres, expressing optimism that the next administration would build on the gains recorded in the sector in the last four years. Also, Chairman of Epe Local Government, Hon Adedoyin Adesanya said the people of Epe were grateful to Ambode for the projects executed in the division, saying that the theatre would go a long way in boosting tourism and entertainment, as well as create jobs for the people. Facilities at the theatre include standard furnishing, gallery, artiste changing room, rehearsal hall, restaurant, restrooms, power generating sets and well-laid out car park, among others.