The National Cancer Institute Dictionary of Cancer Terms describes scare tissue in the following manner. “Fibrous tissue that forms when normal tissue is destroyed by disease, injury, or surgery. For example, scar tissue forms when a wound heals after a cut, sore, burn, or other skin condition, or when an incision (cut) is made into the skin during surgery. It may also form inside the body when certain conditions, such as cirrhosis, cause normal tissue to become fibrous tissue.” Scars form during the healing process on the skin but can also form inside the body.  For example in the heart after a heart attack and may subsequently affect the function of the heart in contracting and pumping blood.  Most parts of the body can scar easily.  The lining of the womb, the endometrium, is an exception.  Bones too may heal without scaring, Certain cells called fibroblasts proliferate (increase rapidly) in wounds to create scar tissue.  The scar tissue is different from normal tissue in the amount of the protein collagen and in the structural arrangement of collagen.  Scar tissue contains much more collagen and less elastic fibres and the composition and structural arrangement makes scar tissue less elastic than normal tissue. Some structures of normal skin such as sweat gland, and hair follicles do not form in scar tissue. Yoruba people with tribal marks on the cheeks cannot grow a uniform beard. Scar tissue is usually darker than the surrounding tissue because of post inflammatory hyperpigmentation. We also talk of emotional scars which are changes in a person’s emotions, passions, feelings, dispositions, understanding, or mentality caused by hurts and painful experiences.  Just as tissue or skin scars are often permanent, emotional scars are also often permanent and may permanently affect a person’s functioning and life style. Scars are described by their appearance.  Hypertrophic scars are raised above the surrounding skin because of tissue proliferation during healing and are limited to the site of wounding. Keloids are scars that are raised above normal skin and spread beyond the original site of wounding into the surrounding skin. Keloids may become tumorous (large masses) but not cancerous (uncontrolled growth and spreading to other parts of the body). Most of the swelling is due to collagen deposition.  Keloids are more easily formed in black people. Contracture scars are mainly formed by burns.  The skin is tightened and flattened or sunken. Atrophic scars are also flattened in appearance. A  pit is formed if some supporting muscle or fat has been lost under the superficial layer of the skin. Acne scars and chicken pox scars are atrophic scars. Some facial tribal marks are made by burns and create flattened scars (contracture scars).  Other tribal marks are made with blade cuts and may heal as raised scars (hypertrophic scars). Amongst other factors, the degree of wounding mainly determines the degree of scaring. Deep wounds affecting various structures of the skin such as fat and muscle layers will create deep scars.  Wounds that are not protected by first aid measures during healing will develop well-formed scars. Tribal marks were traditionally used to identify.  They were meant to be permanent.  They are still used but some people are opposed to them even though it is their own tradition.  Today’s science and technology may have some solutions for some people who want to erase or reduce their marks. Physical scars are ugly in their looks.   Emotional scars are ugly in their effects.  Typically, neither can be erased easily, quickly or painlessly, if they can be erased at all. Neither should be encouraged or engendered.  Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635 