SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc has assured shareholders that recent corporate changes will lead to better performance in the years ahead. At the annual general meeting yesterday in Lagos, directors of the insurance company said the rebranding of the company and appointment of new management reflected the company’s commitment to long-term growth. At the meeting, shareholders ratified the appointment of Mr Samuel Ogbodu as the Managing Director of SUNU Assurances Nigeria and Mr. Adeleke Hassan as Executive Director, Technical and Operations. “This is in line with the company’s vision of growing its business consistently over the next five years to become one of Nigeria’s 10 largest underwriting companies,” the company stated. The company’s rebranding activities involved both internal and external communication strategies to inform stakeholders and the general public of the change of name and to raise awareness of the introduction of the SUNU Group’s presence in Nigeria. According to the company, the rebranding not only included a change in the company’s aesthetics but also in critical service functions and delivery as the company is focused on leveraging technology to provide quality insurance offerings to its various customers reflecting its pan African presence as a full-fledged member of the SUNU Group. The company stated that the rebranding was strategic and designed to align with the exemplary brand of the parent company, SUNU Group. It is worthy to note that SUNU Group is a foremost Pan-African Insurance Group with asset base of over $623 Million and operations in 14 African Countries and 23 office locations spanning West and Central Africa. “SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc is therefore positioned to leverage on SUNU Group’s vast network of knowledge capital, financial strength and technical resources in our quest to differentiate its offerings and service standards in the Nigerian marketplace,” the company stated. In addition to strengthening the company’s Balance sheet, the partnership with SUNU Group is expected to provide SUNU Assurances Nigeria with critical organizational capabilities and competencies which would be harnessed to create and deliver value to its esteemed clients. SUNU Assurances Nigeria reassured shareholders of its commitment to keep providing tailor-made products and better service on which SUNU Group have built their reputation across Africa.