The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has insisted that it is committed to the timeline in its Meter Assets Provider (MAP) regulation, stressing that it would sanction either the electricity distribution company (DisCo) or MAP that violates the guideline. Speaking with The Nation, its General Manager, Finance and Management Services, Mr. Abudukadir Shetima,  said  customers of AEDC and JEDC should expect from the commencement of rollout date for meters to be installed in their premises within 10 working days of making payment to MAPs in accordance with section 18 (3) of the MAP Regulations 2018. Shetima, who is also the chairman, Committee on MAP, insisted that as far as NERC is concerned “the May 1 timeline still stands.  But you know that doesn’t necessary mean that on May 1, meters will be put.” He explained that the customer will go and indicate interest for having a meter and to make up-front  payment which is one of the option. Shetima added that when the customer does that the process is that the DisCos will go and inspect his premises and ensure that it is ready for meter deployment. He said: “For instance, if there is need to do a network clean up, the DisCo will do that. So, that will take a couple of days and then the customer will be instructed to go and make payment. “When he makes payment within 10 days the MAP will have to install the meter.  That same date is from the date of payment. The date of payment is dependent on the inspection of the premises from the first of May. “The Commission is still committed to those timeline and when we review, we come for monitoring and we see that there is slippages then there is sanction from either the MAP or the DisCo.” NERC had on April 6 this year announced the appointment of  Mojec International Limited, Meron Consortium and Turbo Engineering Limited that it permitted to provide 487,000, 213,000 and 200,000 meters respectively. It said while JEDC has appointed the Triple 7 and Mojec International Limited consortium to provide 500,000 meters. The Commission spelt it out that the rollout of meters shall commence no later than the 1st of May 2019. Similarly, on April 12, the Commission gave the May 1 deadline to Ikeja and Benin DisCos for their MAPs to rollout their meters. NERC announced that  IEDC appointed Mojec International Limited- (399,790 meters), Consolidated Infrastructure Group Ltd- (397,922 meters) and New Hamshire Capital Ltd-(276,699 meters) respectively within the Ikeja Disco franchise under MAP. While Benin Disco has appointed FLT Energy System Ltd, G-Unit Engineering Ltd, Inlaks Power Solution Ltd, Sabrud Consortium Nigeria Ltd and Turbo Energy Ltd to provide meters within its franchise.