A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr Dele Belgore, yesterday told the Federal High Court in Lagos that he never met or dealt with former Petroleum Resources Minister, Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke. The lawyer said he was not aware that the N450 million he signed for in 2015 came from her while he served as the party’s Campaign Coordinator in Kwara State. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) charged him with former National Planning Minister, Prof Abubakar Suleiman and Mrs Madueke (said to be at large) with money laundering. In the nine-count charge, the EFCC accused them of making a cash payment of N10 million to Kwara State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Dr Emmanuel Onucheyo. Under cross-examination by defence counsel Tayo Oyetibo (SAN), Belgore told the court that there were fund raising activities by the PDP ahead of the 2015 poll. He testified that prior to the election, there were complaints of insufficient fund by the Kwara PDP. According to him, when the fund came, it was used specifically for campaign purposes. Belgore averred that in a presidential election, candidates were expected to have a party agent in each polling unit, adding that there were about 1,872 polling units in the state at the time. He also told the court that there were ward collation agents required by every candidate, while there were 193 wards across Kwara State. The lawyer said in some areas considered to be problematic, there were up to three ward collation agents, while there are 16 local government areas and three senatorial districts in the state. Belgore said one local government collation agent and a senatorial district collation agent were required by a presidential candidate in each council area and senatorial district. The lawyer told the court that besides the agents mentioned, there were also state collation agents, all of whom he said were paid for services rendered, as well as for transportation and feeding. The defence counsel then asked: “So, the complaint about non-availability of funds before the election relates to funds for all these expenses as enumerated?” Belgore replied: “Yes.” He added that the complaints were communicated to the headquarters. The lawyer also said as a state coordinator, he received information on the fund when it was released. The defence counsel asked: “Can you recollect the date of the presidential election?” The witness replied: “March 28, 2015.” “So, it is humanly impossible for you and the second defendant to have distributed the fund across Kwara State between March 26 and March 28?” the counsel asked. The witness replied: “That’s correct”. When asked if he or the second defendant collected any part of the N450 million, he said: “No”. On whether he was informed of any other source of the money, he replied: “No, to the best of my knowledge.” Referring to counts one to six of the charge – allegations of alleged conspiracy with Mrs Allison-Madueke, Belgore said: “From when I was appointed the campaign coordinator, up till now, I never met, communicated or interacted with Diezani or any person said to be acting on her instructions or behalf.” The EFCC said the defendants “directly took possession of N450 million,” which they allegedly indirectly spent, adding that they “reasonably ought to have known (that the money) forms part of the proceeds of unlawful act”. Belgore and Suleiman pleaded not guilty. Two prosecution witnesses had testified that Mrs Allison-Madueke collected N23 billion from three oil marketers – Northern Belt Limited, Actus Integrated Limited, Midwestern Company and Mr Leno Laitan – ahead of the 2015 general elections. They said it was part of the money Belgore signed for, but Belgore said he did not know the companies. Justice Rilwan Aikawa adjourned till May 15 for continuation of trial.