Sir: The country is presently battling with food insecurity and massive rate of unemployment because youths no longer hold a stake in the economy. In fact, the degree of disconnection between Nigerian youths and economic policies, including agricultural policies, can be likened to a mobile device without an installed network provider. Imagine! Meanwhile, it is also very important to commend all agricultural stakeholders who have made submissions on this worrisome national challenge on different platforms, at one time or the other. As some opined that the discovery of oil led to the worrisome decline in the agricultural sector, others shared the perspective that lack of continuity of brilliant agricultural programs as well as the nation’s undemocratic leadership style impeded our growth within the agricultural space. Well, all of these views are very good part of the reasons we are trapped within the walls of national uncertainties. But it is imperative to say that the crucial reason for our national predicament is the lacuna between youths and contemporary agricultural innovations. How shall we escape? Truth be told, if we must avert the United Nations’ projection of famine in Nigeria by the year 2050 as a result of our increasing national population, then the youths – constituting about 60 percent of the country’s population and 30 percent of her workforce, must be productively encouraged to actively participate in agriculture through integration in contemporary agricultural innovations before they completely lose interest. Sincerely speaking, youths are already losing interest in agriculture; because the country’s agricultural landscape is not adopting the global developmental trend in the agricultural sphere. It is needful to say that the best way to entice young people back to farms is through introduction to agricultural technologies such as Soilless farming (hydroponics), cloud computing, block chain, among others, inclusive of digital and technical skills for strategic market penetration. If youths still do not realize agriculture as a noble profession with profitable opportunities for livelihood, it becomes very difficult to combat the challenge of food insecurity and high rate of unemployment ravaging our national corridors. For me, it is not too late to make it right as a nation. Before our youths completely lose interest in agriculture, we need to do the needful  collectively. First, we need to deliberately restore the nobility of agriculture right from primary level across board. Secondly, agricultural curriculum must be reviewed and contemporary agricultural innovations such as Block Chain, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Soilless farming (hydroponics), Precision agriculture, Use of Drones, among other globally-adopted innovations in the agricultural sphere should be introduced. Similarly, youths in tertiary institutions should also be taken through practical sessions by professionals in these innovative areas of agriculture, at close time intervals to strengthen their technical know-how. Finally, there should be more synergistic work relationship between agriculture stakeholders in the industrial sphere, business/finance sector and management of agriculture-inclined tertiary institutions to help educate the youths on how to convert their theoretical and practical experiences into profitable businesses (agribusiness) for self reliance. These will go a long way in promoting food security and reducing the alarming rate of unemployment plaguing the country. 