Times and seasons are natural phenomena of life. There is a season to sow, a season to plant, a season of rains, a season to laugh and a season to weep. A new season, it would seem, has come for the sporting world. It is the season of great comebacks. From the world of tennis to the world of football, a common trend has taken over and it is leaving hearts inspired. The two nearly opposite sporting worlds have experienced great unprecedented comebacks in the first few months of 2019. In tennis, Tiger Woods delivered the greatest comeback ever seen by winning the 2019 Masters more than a decade after a great lapse. So great was his extraordinary feat that it earned him the highest US civilian honor. This award was presented to him by US President himself, Donald Trump. For someone who had lost his wife to divorce, lost key sponsors and underwent different surgeries ranging from his knee to his Achilles tendons, and to his back, his win on Sunday, 14th April 2019 was a great inspiration to many. Delving into the world of football, Liverpool completed one of the greatest comebacks in football history, beating Barcelona 4-0 at Anfield and 4-3 on aggregate thrusting the club to the Champions League final. This occurred on Tuesday, 7th May 2019. As with Tiger Woods, so great was the comeback that popular singer KCee lost a whooping sum of 1million Naira to a @mrchidozie on twitter. The singer had placed his confidence in Barcelona and promised 1 million Naira if Liverpool won. The singer’s confidence wasn’t out of place. After all, the chances of Liverpool winning against Barcelona was next to impossible given that Barcelona was coming into the game with a 3-0 lead against Liverpool from their first leg. However, Liverpool shocked the world by winning the match with an irrefutable 4-0 win. And just when we thought comebacks were over, Tottenham pulled off a beautiful 96th-minute last-gasp comeback by beating Ajax 3-2 just a day after Liverpool’s defeat of Barcelona. The win enabled them join their Premier League rival, Liverpool in the final of the Champions League. Indeed it is a season of comebacks that leaves the same quote on everyone’s lips: “never give up”. For the sporting world, one question remains, is the comeback season here to stay? And if it is, in whose court or field will it land next?