The Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) has taken its telecommunications campaign to traders in Onitsha, the commercial city of Anambra State. The campaign which was carried out in partnership with the African Entrepreneurial and Human Development Initiative, was targeted at reaching traders in their shops. The Head, Consumer Protection and Advocacy Consumer Affairs Bureau, AyanBanji Ojo, in a chat with the Nation, said the commission decided to bring the awareness campaign to markets in view of traders’ time constraints in attending their programmes. He however regretted that over 70 percent of traders in the Nigerian markets were ignorant of the commission’s policy on their rights as telecom consumers in the country. He said, “Our findings from the questionnaires administered on traders at markets in Karu, Abuja and Kano revealed that traders are ignorant of the policies of government on NCC. “We also observed that South Easterners hardly complain anything about their telephone. Ojo explained that the choice of Onitsha for the exercise was informed by the large concentration of traders in the market. “We decided to come here because we discovered that Onitsha market is the largest in the South East, if not West Africa. “We want to reach out to the traders who hardly leave their shops to lodge complaints or attend to our programmes like the town hall meeting or the consumer parliament where these issues are explained,” he added. He appreciated the management of the market for providing the space for the campaign, saying it was an indication that they were interested in the programme. Also speaking, Head, Information and Reference Consumer Affairs Bureau, Ismail Adedigba stressed that the campaign was extended to the market due to the importance the commission attached to its consumers. “In NCC every consumer matters to us especially when it comes to the protection of their rights and privileges. “We believe that information and enlightenment is a catalyst to consumer empowerment,” he said 