Born and raised in Ile Ife, Osun State, Adefisayo Obaoluwafemi Amos, popularly known as Apataewi (Rock of chants) is fast-rising poet, writer and actor who is ready to showcase his chanting prowess to the world. The 200 level accountancy student of University of Nigeria, Nsukka, UNN, in this interview with ELIZABETH OLATUNDUN, speaks on deriving the nickname ‘rock of chants’, his passion for acting as well as his challenges as an upcoming acts, among other issues. Excerpts HOW did you get the name ‘Apataewi’? Wow! I love this. I was born into a religious family. The titles are about God. I went to the mountain one day and as I was praying and praising God with chants, the name apata (rock) just dropped and I heard “Apataewi”. I kept saying this till I got home. I therefore named myself “Apataewi”. With this name, I have discovered a lot of things. How old are you? My Mother told me I was born in March 14, 1993. I confirmed that from my father too and I believe them. Being a poet, is it inborn or learned? I will say it’s inborn because I didn’t learn it from anyone when I started. As soon as I discovered the talent, I started to read books of poetry, listen to album of chants and I also moved closer to those doing it until I improved on it. I started to compose, write and recite till I became versed in it. How is poetry related to accounting? People ask me this severally when they see me performing or acting on stage. They will say I don’t know my way at all. Come to think of it, at a point I lost, but now I found myself. Though I started from my secondary school, I believe it’s just a gift and I didn’t think it could lead me to this point. Right from my childhood, I had prayed to become an accountant because I love calculations. So, I believe there is gift and there is ambition. Do you have it in mind to take accounting as a profession? Sincerely, I wish to, but from the look of things, I will hold onto my talent and develop myself. How would you describe yourself? I like it when you’re straightforward with me, because me, I don’t know how to talk, except I say the truth. I hate seeing people suffering and I love playing with people that are ready to play with me because I hate cheating. As an actor, do you act or chant in movie? Yes, I act and I do chant. Both are on the same line; but I’m still an upcoming super star. I decided to be patient, so I haven’t appeared in secular movies. I have some of the artistes’ contacts; some even call me to get their membership form but I tell them I am not ready because I want to be a famous poet before going into acting. Is it difficult combing chanting and schooling? Not really, because any outing date that is close to my exams period, I don’t go. How do you feel in the midst of chanters? Sometimes I feel afraid but see it as a competition; so I study and learn from them. Ever since you’ve been going out to perform, what has been your experience and challenges? I have learnt and seen a lot. Not being a popular artiste, you might hate yourself the way you are treated. If I go out to perform, sometimes I will be treated well and other times badly. Any regret so far? I regret recording my albums, especially the sophomore album. It wasted my money. And presently, I have a lot of work on ground. How has been the support from your family? It is very poor. My family is one of the poor families in Nigeria. I do everything myself, but thanks to my mum, who’s trying her best. What position are you in your family? Fifth from my dad and third from my mum. How has it been easy to cope with school work and chanting, since you do things yourself? In this country of ours and with my family status, it only takes the grace of God to succeed. Do you write too? I have produced two chant albums which were written by me, titled, Oba Olodumare and Oba Totoberu. How do you compensate your crew? I don’t really pay them but I’m always responsible for their transport when we have an event to perform. Are you married? If not, describe your kind of woman? No, I am single. And I need a lady that is full of principle, understanding and kind-hearted. Where do you see yourself in the next five years? To expand and produce more albums; to circulate it to the world so that they will know that poems exist in a man called Apataewi.