Four officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) kidnapped in Rivers State have regained their freedom, The Nation learnt on Wednesday. Julius Alunomoh, Damian Egwu, Olisa Ojukwu and a woman  Chidiebere Wendy were kidnapped last Tuesday at Obua-Adual Local Government Area (LGA) of Rivers State, while on their way to Abuja. The senior officials had gone to Rivers State to carry out enumeration exercise but were ambushed by unknown gunmen on their way back to Abuja. While four of them were kidnapped, another official Kingsley Okafor was said to have escaped howbeit, with a gunshot injury on his leg. Although the kidnappers later established contact and demanded N40million ransom, it was however not clear if the government paid the money to secure their freedom. According to NEMA’s Director Disaster Risk Reduction (DRRVincent Owan, the victims were released unhurt, thanking the management and staff for their prayers and steadfastness. Owan declined comments on whether the N40million was paid, maintaining that what was important was their freedom and reuniting with their families. “The most important thing now, is not whether the ransom was paid or not. We are very delighted to see them back. Though, they are hale and hearty on the surface, but there is need for them to undergo psychological assessment and counseling due to the trauma of being forcefully taken into hostage. We want them to be stabilised as soon as possible. “I must thank the Director General NEMA, Engr Mustapha Maihaja for working round the clock in facilitating the release of our colleagues. Most of our staff and families had been on vigil. “It was a very harrowing experience for all of us but the almighty God did not abandon us. We, therefore, give him a resounding glory,” he said. In her reaction, Hafsat Shuaibu urged the government to approve NEMA’s condition of service to cover risk and hazard allowances for emergency workers. Shuaibu who’s the Woman leader, Trade Union Congress (TUC), said: “We must commend the management of NEMA for their diligent and prompt response to the plight of kidnapped staff. The incident cannot deter us from responding to disasters and emergency situation in the country because that is our professional calling. “We nevertheless find it necessary to call on the government to approve our condition of service to cater for the nature of our jobs as we all over in most difficult terrains attending to victims of disasters and emergency.”