The CEO/Chief Consultant, Olaking International Holistic Medicine Company (OIHM), Dr. Olawale Qazeem has achieved modest success in managing patients suffering from Cancer, HIV, Diabetes, Tuberculosis, etc. In this interview with Omolara Akintoye, the University of Ilorin graduate of Medicine and Indian-trained medical personnel shares insight on local expertise available in the management and treatment of debilitating ailments like cancer, which leads to loss of foreign exchange for the country. Excerpts HIGH blood pressure and Diabetes are two public health challenges which affect a large population of the society. How do you manage patients suffering from the above mentioned disease conditions? Diabetes and hypertension are two silent killers that pose a significant health challenge. These diseases have hit an all-time high in some developed and developing nations of the world, ranking high as one of the causes of mortality. We take pride in the fact that our protocols for hypertension and diabetes are safe, reliable and research-based. When patients with diabetes and high blood pressure come to us for treatment, we carry out standard tests, check the organs and pinpoint any marker that might indicate the presence of the diseases. We instruct them on why they need to alter their dietary regimen, improve their physical activity level, manage stress and rest properly. Our patients are given different supplements to either replenish the stores of nutrients that have become depleted, drop down their blood glucose levels or lower their blood pressure and lipid count. Your incursion into cancer treatment has yielded positively, why this dreaded disease? Firstly, I have assisted my grandfather who was a stark illiterate, but highly knowledgeable in curing cancer with herbs attend to his customers, majority of them were big-wigs coming from the city to meet him. Asides from helping him to translate or act as an interpreter, I also helped in preparing the herbal medicine. By the time I got to the University, I was already having my own patients. Majority of them were the ones recommending cancer patients to me now. In 2017, I read a report by a renowned Medical doctor how Nigerians spent billions of Naira going abroad to treat cancer, many would still die after spending so much money. This was what really gingered my interest to be helping those afflicted with the disease. There was a particular case of a lady who was doubting me, but after I agreed to treat her, and she was able to stand on her feet; she promised that she will go back to the clinic where she was attending before and introduce her new discovery to them. Cancer is curable mostly at the early stages, and also, using herbs to treat prevents it from spreading to the other organ. Why did you tow the path of naturopathic medicine as opposed to allopathic medicine? Naturopathic medicine has always been deeply ingrained in me, it’s a gift I can proudly say I was born with. Here’s why; my mom has been in the profession of using herbal medicine to treat ailments of the locals in our community for decades. Seeing her handle a myriad of patients with different medical conditions inspired me to follow the path. Furthermore, I opted for naturopathic medicine because it dawned on me that prevention is pivotal than cure. A plethora of diseases which affect humans can either be traced to the food we eat or the lives we lead. So, I saw the need to go for a treatment plan that treats the body via natural means and allow it to heal itself.  I’d rather nip any root problem in the bud before the condition escalates by employing a top-notch approach that involves an adequate diet, lifestyle modification, and administering herbal supplements. How do you diagnose a disease? When a patient walks through the door of my office, I carry out a comprehensive consultations to know the etiology of the ailment. At this juncture, I’d like to say a naturopathic doctor’s method of diagnosing a patient’s disease is highly nuanced with that of an allopathic doctor’s. In most cases, we carry out the standard tests done in unorthodox medicine. However, we ask questions about our patient’s health history, signs and symptoms, sleep patterns, hearing capabilities, sex life and bowel function. We do all these to get a visual image of your general health. We also carry out routine tests on them even after they must have presented a bloodwork and/or test result from a medical doctor. We do this just to be sure of what exactly the cause of the illness might be. What are the challenges you have encountered in your field? It is not totally out of place to say that the naturopathic profession in Nigeria is still in its baby steps. Ever since our inception, one of the main obstacles we have encountered is being accepted by the society. The public’s misconception of the role played by naturopathy is one that we cannot overstate. The society has not fully bought into the idea of trusting a naturopathic doctor. In most cases, patients who visit us for treatment find it difficult to complete their treatments. It is imperative that our clients and would-be clients understand that we use natural medicines, and at such we expect them to be patient and see results for themselves, instead of giving up mid-way and concluding that natural remedies are not effective. In the same breath, the government is still sitting on the fence about issues pertaining to alternative medicines like naturopathy. Lack of support from the government has been one of the drawbacks we experience in this field. What ailments have you had successes treating with naturopathic methods? We have recorded tremendous success treating patients who are experiencing illnesses such as obesity, liver diseases, heart diseases, chronic fatigue syndrome, fertility problems, fibromyalgia, hormonal imbalances, cancer management, allergies and chronic pain. If there is one thing I’d like to chip in, it’s the fact that liver diseases like fatty liver and hepatitis are on the rise. We get cases of these ailments reported to at least every week, however, we are thankful that our intervention has been fruitful so far.