From 38 per cent in 2015, Adamawa State currently has 81 per cent immunisation coverage. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Fatima Atiku Abubakar, disclosed this at a press briefing in Yola, the state capital. She added that the government was taking steps to raise the rate to 90 per cent. “In Adamawa State, routine immunisation coverage for children appropriately immunised for age based on card and history rose from 56 per cent in the last quarter of 2017 to 81 per cent in the first quarter of 2019 lot quality assessment survey (LQAS),” the commissioner said. She was speaking at a press conference marking the beginning of 2019 African Vaccination Week activities, which lasted from April 22 to April 28 under the theme: “Protected Together: Vaccines Work”. State Primary Health Care Development Agency (SPHCDA) Executive Chairman, Dr. Barulu Muhammad, who addressed a street rally in the course of the week, traced the history of vaccination coverage success back to 2015 when the state had a mere 38 per cent coverage. From 38 per cent in 2015 to 81 per cent in 2019, it has thus been a significant improvement in four years, which she said gives the state government the confidence that its 90 per cent coverage target is achievable in a country which targets 85 per cent for 2019 but where the average performance is far less. At the conference, convened by the Health Commissioner and attended by other officials, including Dr. Muhammad, were World Health Organisation (WHO) representatives and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Identified as some of the factors hindering maximum vaccination efforts across the state include difficult-to-traverse terrains, hard-to-reach populations, and rejection by some caregivers. Highlighting efforts not only to sustain current achievement, but to also raise it to the 90 per cent target, the health commissioner said, WHO and UNICEF-supported mobile teams accessed difficult terrains to get to underserved populations. He added that nomadic teams were also in place to reach out to itinerant herding and fishing families. During the street awareness rally, Dr. Muhammad of the SPHDA stressed that vaccines were safe and free and, that it was far better to take them against vaccine-preventable diseases than to refuse vaccination and treat resulting diseases later. She advised that families rejecting vaccination be reported to the government to protect such families from themselves and the larger society, as every child has the right to free and safe vaccination against all identified vaccine-preventable diseases. In the course of the street rally, those who participated walked in a procession along streets in Yola, bearing placards with inscriptions such as: ‘Vaccine is Safe, Make Sure your Children Under-1 are Immunized,’ ‘Vaccine Works: Let’s Protect our Children against Preventable Diseases,’ Vaccines are Safe and Improve Lives.’ The African Vaccination Week is an annual event observed at the last week of April with the goal to strengthen immunisation programmes and increase awareness of the importance of everyone’s need and right to be protected from vaccine-preventable diseases.