The Hope Democratic Party (HDP) and Ambrose Owuru and its  presidential candidate have urged the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal (PEPT) to halt the planned May 29 swearing-in of President Muhammadu Buhari for his second term. The petitioners also asked the tribunal to restrain the acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, from administering the oath of office and allegiance on the President on May 29. HDP and Owuru urged the tribunal to halt the planned inauguration pending the hearing and determination of their petition challenging the outcome of the last presidential election. They contended that unless President Buhari is stopped from being inaugurated, he would foist a state of hopelessness and fait accompli on the tribunal. The petitioners said they are challenging the validity of the President’s election for non-compliance with the electoral laws. They added that their petition, dated March 7, questioning the return of Buhari as the President-elect had been served on all parties and that parties had exchanged pleadings. HDP and Owuru averred that despite the pendency and scheduled hearing of their petition, President Buhari had been making frantic efforts and preparations to be inaugurated on May 29 by inviting the acting CJN and the general public. They argued that it was necessary for the tribunal to issue the restraining orders to preserve the subject matter of their petition. “The law is settled that once the question of the validity of an election of any person is challenged as to whether he is validly elected or not, that person is not competent to take office or assume the seat of power. “The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria prohibits and forbids that Nigeria or any part thereof be governed or taken over by any person or group of persons except in accordance with the provisions of the constitution,” they said. The petitioners added that the orders would prevent President Buhari from foisting a fait acompli and state of hopelessness on the tribunal and render their petition nugatory. On Tuesday, lawyer to HDP and Owuru, Oliver Eya, sought to move the fresh motion but was prevented when lawyers to the respondents claimed not to have been served with the motion. President Buhari’s lawyer, Wole Olanipekun (SAN); lawyer to INEC, Yunus Usman (SAN) and All Progressives Congress (APC) lawyer Leteef Fagbemi (SAN) sought time to enable them respond when served. The five-man tribunal, headed by the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, adjourned till May 22 for the respondents – President Buhari, the APC and INEC – to respond. Olanipekun queried the competence of the petitioner by the HDP and Owuru on the grounds that it was incompetent in law. At yesterday’s proceedings, former EFCC Chairman Mallam Nuhu Ribadu stood in for the President; INEC had its Director of Legal Services, Oluwatoyin Babalola, while APC’s Head of Legal Services, Dare Oketade, attended proceedings. 