Berger Paints Nigeria Plc has started implementation of many strategic initiatives aimed at enhancing the operations and processes of the company and positioning it for long-term sustainable growth. The board of the company laid out its plan for sustained value creation to shareholders at the annual general meeting in Lagos. The board outlined that the strategic initiatives, which cover many areas of the company including structure, people, processes and digital operations, were derived from a detailed evaluation of the company and its future competitiveness. Addressing shareholders at the meeting in Lagos, Chairman, Berger Nigeria Plc, Mr Abi Ayida, said the new strategic initiatives were arrived at after due consultations and meetings with the various units of the company and relevant stakeholders. According to him, the evaluation process underlined the imperative for the company to reposition for global competitiveness and sustainable increase on return on investment (RoI). “On assumption of office, I solicited views on how this required journey could be made, and attained unvarnished narrative of what we as employees, partners, stakeholders and leaders were doing well and what not so well. The outcome of these valuable sessions, after board review and consideration, confirmed that there was significant headroom for improvement in our people, processes and organisational structure,” Ayida said. He pointed out that in order to put the company on the path of sustained profitability; the board had created the office of Chief Operating Officer to drive the operations and technical aspects of the business while Mr Anjar Sircar was appointed the new Managing Director to take charge of strategic business development decisions and marketing function of the company. Until his appointment, Sircar was the Chief Executive Officer of the Elite Group of Companies, Bangladesh. Sircar, an astute professional, who has wide and varied industry experience internationally, was a member of the Executive Committee of Nepal India Chamber of Commerce and Industries (NUCCI) and India Nepal Business Forum. Ayida said the key anchors for the corporate restructuring were a clear and integrated customer-focused global strategy, an innovative business model, organisation restructuring for resilience, sustainability and perpetuity, and retooled human capital and talent management. He reiterated the company’s commitment towards value creation and assured shareholders of more opportunities for robust engagement with the stakeholders. According to him, a help desk has been put in place to reinforce secretariat’s communication with the shareholders. He assured shareholders that the company’s ultra-modern plant would be commissioned soon. At the meeting, shareholders approved the payment of N188.39 million as cash dividend for the 2018 business year, representing a dividend per share of 65 kobo. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of the company for the year ended December 31, 2018 showed that turnover grew by 12 per cent to N3.38 billion in 2018 as against N3.01 billion in 2017. Profit before tax rose by 33.8 per cent from N339.5 million in 2017 to N454.3 million in 2018. Shareholders commended the board and management of the company for the improvements in all performance indicators in 2018. A shareholder, Mr Lawrence Oguntoye urged the company to sustain its outstanding performance. Oguntoye however decried the effect of multiple taxations on manufacturers in Nigeria.