Out -going Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun on Thursday disclosed his administration attracted 423 mega industries and over 1,000 medium and small scale industries  in the last eight years. Amosun revealed further that on assumption of office in 2011, he met Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N700 million monthly and nurtured it to the tune of N7b monthly. The Governor, who made this known  at the official launch of Ogun State Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency (OgunInvest) at the MITROS Hotel and Residences, Abeokuta, the state capital, said that feat catapulted Ogun state out of the economic abyss to number two in terms of revenue generation and number five in the ease of doing business index in Nigeria. Amosun, who was represented at the launch by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Taiwo Adeoluwa, said his government also tackled all the issues that hitherto, turned Ogun into a “pariah state” in terms of economic development and growth. He said OgunInvest would serve as a one-stop shop for would-be investors in the state and also serves as an interface between the government and the investors. According to him, the agency  would also ensure sustainability of his administration’s economic policies and programmes in order to place the state on irreversible path of rapid and steady socioeconomic growth. He noted  that though the Agency was established by Executive Order to facilitate both net worth  investment and  small businesses, his administration had forwarded an executive bill to the House of Assembly for the Agency to be backed by extant law to ensure continuity and sustainability. “The Agency was established by Executive Order, but an executive bill has been forwarded to the House of Assembly to pass the bill into law, so that it can be sustained and continued by the next administration. The Agency christened OgunInvest is meant to facilitate inter-governmental relationship and equally to streamline investment activities in the state. Amosun said: “OgunInvest will also serve as a friend of business within government; and this has been broadened to ensure that successes recorded by our government in the area of investment are sustained. As at now, our GDP and economy are growing faster that the national average. We have also attracted over 75% of the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in Nigeria to our state. “In terms of IGR, we are only second to Lagos State and we even plan to overtake the state. So in order to put Ogun on the path of irreversible economic growth and development, we have established this agency, to ensure we move the state further on high economic pedestal and improve our rating in the ease of doing business index.” Also, the Consultant to the state government on OgunInvest, Fehintola Odulaja, expressed the confidence that  the economic project would ensure wholesome development of Ogun through series of incentives directed at wooing more investors to the state.