Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka, former Deputy Governor of Ekiti and Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP) governorship candidate in the last governorship election, has congratulated Gov. Kayode Fayemi on his election victory at the Supreme Court. While reacting to his loss at the apex court, the PDP candidate said  he decided to congratulate Fayemi because of his nature as an “Omoluabi (cultured person). He, however, implored Fayemi  to sincerely exhibit the true “Omoluabi” attitude Ekiti people were known for by focusing on governance in the true sense of it. He said: “My consolation at this time is that the people of Ekiti as well as Fayemi and the APC knew I was robbed and God being God, the true story shall be told someday by those who orchestrated the theft. ” The least expectation of Ekiti people from Fayemi and APC now is that they should reduce the people’s pains by governing well so the people do not suffer double loss having now lost their mandate freely given. “I am committed to Ekiti, I am going  nowhere but will work side-by-side with my people until Ekiti is delivered from clutches of mindless and heartless vampires and election riggers. ” I urge  all true lovers of Ekiti that time for a broad coalition to free Ekiti from those mortgaging its interests and destinies to outside forces has come. ” I am prepared to play my part and together we shall win. Awolowo once said “after darkness comes glorious dawn.” The former deputy governor was also full of praises for former Gov. Ayodele Fayose as well as all members and leaders of the PDP at the state, zonal and national levels for the unflinching support they gave him. “Though we lost at the Supreme Court, this has not diminished our confidence in the judiciary as the last hope of the ordinary citizens out there. ” Again, I urge the good people of Ekiti to remain committed to the development of the state and trust in God for better days ahead ” I also congratulate  Fayemi  over his election as Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and I wish him success, ” he said. (NAN)