Modupe Ogunbayo was the spokesperson of the Jimi Agbaje Campaign Organisation during the Lagos governorship election. In this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, she speaks on the controversy over the disbursement of campaign funds and other challenges facing the party. Some party chieftains complained that Jimi Agbaje did not carry them along during the governorship campaigns in Lagos. What actually happened? Jimi Agbaje will rather maintain his peace. There is no point dwelling on issues like this, two months after the election. There are many issues that are of paramount importance, which needs to be addressed in order to move the Lagos PDP forward. If not that he is a man of peace, he would have reacted in similar manner, given the several allegations levied against him by some people in the Lagos PDP. These allegations are basically unfounded. But, in view of the implication of these spurious allegations, it incumbent on me to refute some of them, to defend my principal. The claim by the Lagos PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr. Taofiq Gani that Agbaje did not carry them along is the height of inconsistency and deceit. I must say that he was a regular face during the campaigns of our governorship candidate. In fact, he called me to further defend himself, after he went public that Agbaje did not carry them along, which I carpeted with proofs. He sent me a text message that he attended Agbaje’s campaign just to make a protest and not because he actually came to support him. But the fact remains that he attended Agbaje’s campaign not once, not twice, but on a number of occasions. This means he was aware of the meetings put together on behalf of the campaign organisation and fully participated in the process. I make bold to say that due process were followed during Agbaje’s campaigns and that it is not acceptable for some members of the party to blame Agbaje for the party’s defeat. He must have stepped on toes to warrant this kind of campaign against him… The narrative in the media was that Lagos PDP leadership was not carried along during Agbaje’s campaign. This was orchestrated by some chieftains of the party. They claimed to have been sidelined during the campaign; they tried to justify their claim, saying that was why we lost. I must say they are being economical with the truth. We have pictures and other documents that that belie the claim that they were not part of the campaigns. The main point is that many Lagosians and party members would rather support the PDP. But, instead of Gani joining forces to make the party better, he chose another direction entirely. He suddenly finds his voice after the election that Agbaje never carried them along. In the history of political parties in Nigeria, I have never found a situation where a party’s publicity secretary would stand up to criticise its candidate after election or during election. They would rather project their candidates in the right perspective. Rather, it is the candidate of the opposing parties they should be putting on the defensive. Gani would rather drag Agbaje’s name in the mud. I have reviewed all the parties that contested election in Nigeria so far; I have never seen any party chieftain that did what Gani has done to his party’s candidate. So far, all the parties stood behind their candidates in solidarity for a common cause. This really questions the commitment of some of the members who hold offices in the party. Since 1999, the chapter has struggled to assert itself. I think it is time for cleansing and self-examination, to make the party great. Many of our members knew what went wrong during the last election. That is why some members in Abuja who understand what played out in the Lagos are not making negative comments against Agbaje. Discerning party faithfuls, whether in Lagos or Abuja, have decided to ignore the campaign of calumny against Agbaje, because they understand that Agbaje did the right thing during the campaign. Agbaje got the fund from Abuja and utilised it according to instructions from Abuja. Agbaje’s intension to rule Lagos is based on his competence and desire to give the people a new lease of life. He is a Lagosian and understands what is good for his people. Agbaje’s quest to govern the state is based on patriotic zeal. It is people who don’t mean well for Lagosians that are going about casting aspersions on my principal. The fund allegedly mismanaged by Agbaje has been the centre of the controversy… Similar allegations have been leveled against other chieftains of the party since 1999. But, I must say this lacks any logical backing; to say that Agbaje diverted funds disbursed by Atiku Abubakar for the campaigns is inaccurate. Mr. Jimi Agbaje actually collected the money and disbursed it according to instructions. The money that was disbursed was for candidates of the party and not for any other persons. He disbursed the money to the candidates who were flying the banner of the party. Have you heard the national leadership of the party complain or the person who brought out the money from his pocket? If the person who brought the money is satisfied with the way it was spent, why are they crying more than the bereaved? I must reiterate again that Agbaje expended the money based on instructions and he did that to the latter. Can Lagos PDP surmount its current challenges? It is not my duty to comment on that. The owners of the party know what to do about the party. I pray that they get their acts together. Agbaje has been called a mole in the party, because he quickly congratulated his APC counterpart after the election… Former President Goodluck Jonathan congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari after the 2015 election. This was acknowledged worldwide, so why should it be out of order if Agbaje congratulate Babajide Sanwo-Olu? So, Agbaje followed the footsteps of a great statesman like Jonathan. This does not make him a mole; this does not reduce his stature as a loyal party man. The moles in the PDP are there and I give this to you as an assignment to conduct your investigation very well, to unmask the moles in the party. As for my principal, he is a committed party man and would always remain loyal to his constituency. 