The Nigerian Navy (NN) on Friday inaugurated a standard jetty at the NNS BEECROFT in Apapa, the cradle of the service over 15-years after the establishment jetty suffered dilapidation. The service also inaugurated its third locally built boat, a 25-man House Boat, 26 vehicles including 10 liberty buses and 16 Hilux trucks, as well as the remodelled Naval Dockyard Limited Apprentice School Victoria Island. The inaugurations carried out by the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defence Mrs. Naratu Batagarawa, were part of activities to celebrate the NN’s 63rd anniversary. Mrs. Batagarawa used the opportunity to commend the NN for the strides recorded in the past four years in the areas of manpower development, availability of platforms for sustained operations and improved welfare for its personnel. She charged the navy to take adequate steps at providing needed capacity to help build the nation. “The Nigerian Navy is expected to maintain the required presence that would ensure adequate protection of our sea lines of commerce and communication which are vital to our national survival. “Specifically, the prevention or at least reduction to the barest minimum of all forms of illegal economic activities particularly crude oil theft as well as the protection of the environment from pollution also presents formidable challenges. “These for me will continue to be areas of emphasis as we move to a brighter future of economic prosperity, political stability and technological development,” she said. Vice Admiral Ibas said the completion of the jetty and other projects were part of the navy’s broader goal encapsulated in its transformation plan 2011-2020 detailed to cover operations, fleet renewal logistics, human resource management and administration. He said the Houseboat would be one of a series, designed to complement existing houseboats, as part of the NN choke point strategy in compliance with presidential directives. “As part of effort to enhance transportation and welfare of personnel, about 130 assorted vehicles, including trucks, buses, ambulances were procured within the past year. “I am glad to note that the NN had made giant strides in the last four years with commensurate improvement in the availability of platforms for sustained operations, manpower development and welfare, as well as notable presence in the nation’s security architecture within the Gulf of Guinea (GoG). “Our desire is to bequeath to the future generations, a navy that is operationally capable and administratively responsive in the task of securing our maritime domain and fulfilling other assigned tasks. “The reconstructed NNS BEECROFT jetty is a key enabler in the attainment of these strategic objectives, as it would provide the needed berthing facility for various platforms acquired under the NN Fleet recapitalisation effort to improve NN capabilities and operational efficiency. “The jetty is thus urgently required for the projection of maritime power, particularly across the nation’s western maritime frontiers. With the commissioning of the reconstructed jetty and a 250 ton capacity slipway soon to be completed, NNS BEECROFT, the cradle of NN, will shortly wear a new look. “The 25-Man Houseboat is another innovative project and a clear testimony to Mr President’s increased support for indigenous technology and local research. “Following the successful construction of the houseboat, the NN will continue to challenge the dockyard and shipyard with other construction and reconstruction projects, which will directly enhance capacity building and job creation. “I am pleased to mention that the construction of the houseboat is going to be one of a series, designed to complement existing houseboats, as part of the NN Choke point strategy, in compliance with presidential directives.” For the apprentice school, the CNS said its restoration after 24 years was the needed catalyst for the development of critical specialised manpower needed to transform NN’s and the nation’s industrial shipbuilding and yard services within the next decade. “It is projected that the school would commence full operations shortly, as a centre for the training and certification of artificers, crane and forklift operators,fitters,wielders and riggers,” he said.