The Katsina State Command of the Nigerian Police Force on Sunday gave an update on the kidnap of Magajin Gari Daura and in-law to President Muhammadu Buhari, Alhaji Musa Uba. The Police said the IGP’s X squad is presently on the trail of the abductors following a strong lead obtained by the Police through intelligence synergy. The Police Public Relations Officer, PPPRO for Katsina State, Superintendent Gambo Isah while addressing the press on the latest development said the force is closing in on the abductors and will soon address the press on the subject matter. He said, “we have gotten a strong lead on the kidnap of Magajin Gari Daura and we are presently on their trail, soon we shall address the press on the matter. Please ignore earlier information that arrest have been made or that any contact have been established between the family and the abductors’’ ‘’we wish to appeal to the media for their cooperation by avoiding the publication of information that might endanger the safe release of the captive’’ The Nation recalled that the Magajin Gari was abducted Wednesday evening while sitting on a bench in front of his residence and took him to an unknown destination In a related development, the Katsina State Police Command have announced the rescue of 26 people mostly aged between 8 to 14 years from a group of armed Yansakai at Rugar Kinda village, a Fulani settlement, in Dandume LGA of Katsina State. The Command’s Spokesman, Superintendent Gambo Isa told newsmen that the rescue which was part of the ongoing onslaught against crime and criminality in the state occurred when a group of armed Yansakai, an outlawed group in their numbers, riding on motorcycles invaded and attacked the residents who were mainly young children, all male. He said’ ’On the spur of the moment, a combine team of Police, Nigerian Army and Vigilante group responded to the scene and rescued twenty-six (26) of them to Dandume Police Division’’. ‘’The outlawed Yansakai group went on rampage and attacked Dandume Police Division demanding that, the children rescued be handed over to them for mob justice.  The team resisted the hoodlums as a result of which a Policeman and a soldier sustained gunshots injuries fired from the Dane guns of the Yansakai outlawed group’’. ‘’The Command wishes to categorically warn that it will not fold it arms and watch while some group of miscreants are taking the law into their hands.  The Command will deal decisively with any person or group of persons found parading themselves as “Yansakai” or disguising in whatever name’’. The Police Spokesman further announced that the Commissioner of Police, CP Sanusi Buba, has already ordered the arrest of members of the outlawed Yansakai” and that they be brought to justice.