Worried by the increasing insecurity across the country, the National Chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Engr. Yabagi Sani wants President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sack all the security chiefs for lacking ideas to end the constant killings, kidnapping and banditry across the country. Speaking in an interview in Abuja, Engr. Sani reminded the President that he was elected to protect the lives of Nigerians and asked whether if Nigeria his private company losing profit daily, “will he keep the manager of such company? He said that until the current service chiefs are sacked by the President, the insecurity situation in the country may not abate, saying “On the issue of insecurity, I think we know why it has become so embarrassing. “We cannot be doing the same thing and be expecting different results. You cannot retain the same service chiefs in the same positions and expect a different result. “This man (Service chief) has done it so many times and nothing has worked. If it were to be your private company where you recorded a low turnout, will you continue with the same manager? “This president (Buhari) should be somebody who should know more than all of us that to boost the morale of the Force is something that is at the bottom of commitment. They are profiteering with people’s blood. You won’t believe the amount of money going into insecurity. If insecurity is man-made then we are the ones fueling it. The President knows what to do as a former Head of State.” The ADP Chairman throw his weight behind the debate to allow more political parties, saying the “multiplicity of political parties is not bad Nigeria but Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should introduce certain criteria that parties should meet before they are allowed to be on the ballot. “What I am saying is that multiplicity of parties is not bad for a country like Nigeria, what the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should consider is to introduce certain criteria that parties should meet before they are allowed to be on the ballot. “For instance, if you want to be on the national ballot it could be said that you should churn out what you have done before in terms of membership of the House of Assembly which could be used as a yardstick to enable us weed out incompetent people. “The issue of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the PDP commandeering the political space is because they have government either at the State or national level. Election in this country is not just what the electorate wants; it is about how much control one has over the security apparatus or people’s money. Parties like ours are not there yet. “That is why there is always a vicious fight if the power in the state is not at the federal level mostly between the PDP and APC.  So that is the reason it happened the way it did. But it is not to say that there is no hope. Nigeria is moving on. We are gathering more experiences regardless of what people say. People are becoming more informed of their rights. “I believe that what is happening in other climes today will happen here where people will rise up against the establishment of unfavorable activities. “On the multiplicity of parties that we are talking about, I think that for a growing democracy like Nigeria with over 200 million people according to the United Nations, with so many religious and ethnic diversities, it is okay to allow the multiplicity of parties so that those who may not be interested in the national politics but are interested in their locality can be involved. “The unfortunate thing is that we need to go beyond the arrangement of government. Independence should be allowed there to enable them control their resources. If they are allowed to control their resources people will focus on the state since they have their resources to use.”