Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Saturday installed the four new Emirs of Rano, Bichi, Karaye and Gaya Emirates with a call to them to ensure development of education, health, security and agriculture in their respective emirates. Ganduje who performed the installation before the Speaker of Kano state House of Assembly, Hon. Kabiru Alhasan Rurum and other top government officials, recalled that the new Emirs received their appointment letters and staff of office Friday, adding that their coronations have already been gazetted. According to him, the new Emirates have come to stay, pointing out that the new Emirs had requested for the installation ceremony so that they can use the opportunity to appreciate Kano state House of Assembly, as well as the government and people of Kano state for the honour bestowed on them. “The four newly appointed First Class traditional rulers requested for this occasion so that they can appreciate the Kano state government for this responsibility that has been given to them. “If you can recall, Friday in the morning, the Secretary to the State Government had already signed their letters of appointment and all of them acknowledged that they have received their letters. “You will also recall that this new law has already been gazzeted by the government of Kano state. Therefore the new traditional rulers requested for this gathering so they can appreciate the Kano state government and the state House of Assembly.” Ganduje said the new Emirate council needed to be created to attract more development in Kano state, adding that, “the new Emirs must keep records of school children who are not in school. They must encourage their subjects to go to hospitals for treatment. “They must have interest in agriculture. They must encourage their subjects to go into farming.   They should make agriculture priority and their cornerstone.” Ganduje also directed all District Heads, Village Heads and Ulamas within the area of jurisdiction of the new Emirs to ensure that they pay homage to them on Sunday. In their separate remarks, the newly installed Emirs thanked Ganduje for the new assignment given to them and promised to work harmoniously with the Emir of Kano, His Highness, Muhammad  Sanusi 11  who is presently the chairman of Kao State Council of Traditional Rulers, to ensure socio-economic development in the state. They also appealed to Kano people to continue to support Governor Ganduje in his effort to bring about development to all the nooks and crannies of the state. The newly installed First Class Emirs include, the Emir of Bichi, His Highness, Aminu Ado Bayero; Emir of Rano, His Highness, Tafida Abubakar; Emir of Karaye, His Highness, Ibrahim Abubakar; and Emir of Gaya, His Highness, Ibrahim Abdulkadir. Meanwhile, Kano state government on Saturday declared that it is not aware of any Court order stopping it from issuing letters of appointment to the four Emirs of the newly created Emirates in Kano. The Nation reports that a Kano High Court sitting at Ungogo on Friday granted an order restraining  Governor  Abdullahi Ganduje from implementing any action to legitimize the new Emirates of Rano, Bichi, Gaya and Karaye. The presiding Judge, Justice Nasiru Saminu, in a suit filed by one Rabiu Sule Gwarzo, gave an interim injunction directing all parties in the suit to maintain status quo pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. In press statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ganduje, Malam Abba Auwal dismissed such claims, insisting that the letter of appointments were served to the four new emirs before the purported pronouncement by the court. According to the statement, “letters of the Notification of Appointment were written from the office of the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, since Thursday 9th May, 2019 and were dispatched to the concerned Emirs the following day Friday 10th May, 2019, in the very early hours of the day. “In letters dated 9th May, 2019, with reference number SSG/REPA/5/A/86/T, to the newly appointed Emirs, each letter states that, “In accordance with the power conferred on the Governor by the Kano State Emirs (Appointment and Deposition) Amended Law 2019 (1440 AH) which provides the creation of more Emirates, “I wish to convey the approval of His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Kano State, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje OFR for your appointment as First Class Emir of (Bichi) (Karaye) (Rano) (Gaya) Emirate.” “While the said court order pronouncement started after 5 P.M on Friday 10th May, 2019, all the Emirs returned back their acceptance from 10am to 12noon, same day, hours before the court order pronouncement was made. “The new Emir of Karaye, Alhaji Dr Ibrahim Abubakar II signed his acceptance by 12 noon, Emir of Rano Alhaji Tafida Abubakar Ila, signed his acceptance by 10:15 am, Emir of Bichi,  Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, signed his acceptance by 10am and the Emir of Gaya, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdulkadir, signed his letter by 10:30am. “Today’s event, Saturday 11th May, 2019, planning to take place at Sani Abacha Indoor Stadium, Kofar Mata, was just organized to have a symbolic presentation of Notification of Appointment Letters. “But with the new development, the Emirs would only thank the Governor during the Stadium event, for appointing them and serving them with their appointment letters since Friday morning of 10th May, 2019, through the office of the Secretary to the State Government.” The Nation reports that there was jubilation shortly after the ceremony which took place at the Indoor Sports Hall of Sani Abacha Stadium which was full to capacity as people danced and jubilated that a new dawn has come to Kano. 