No fewer than five workers sustained various degrees of injuries yesterday when hoodlums hijacked the picketing of A & P Foods Limited organised by the National Union of Food, Beverage and Tobacco Employees (NUFBTE) in collaboration with the  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Lagos Chapter. Workers were attacked by suspected hoodlums and thugs with bottles, stones and chemicals. The union had accused the company of casualisation and unfair treatment of workers. The unions, led by NUFBTE President and General Secretary, Comrade Lateef Oyelekan and Comrade Bamidele Busari respectively, stormed the Dopemu office of the company with placards bearing different inscriptions. Speaking with reporters, the President, NUFTBE, Comrade Lateef Oyelekan who condemned the ill-treatment of the workers, said it was pathetic that the company had been very consistent in engaging all its workers as casual staff. He said that over 2000 workers that have served the company for close to ten years are still casual workers. He pointed out that the causal workers earned between N18,000 and N20,000, adding that the move became necessary following the violations of workers’ rights by the company. “We are embarking on this exercise because the company has continue to casualise workers, which is contrary to national laws of employment, international labour, human rights conventions and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on the rights and welfare of workers,” he said. He said the union had on three occasions approached the management of the company on the issue and that the management, through the Director Human Resources, Mrs Abiodun Olubiyi promised to staff the workers. He said the last time the union approached the management for discussion, they were attacked by thugs and many of the members sustained various injuries. He added that despite their letters and meeting, the company refused the staffing of the workers and instead employed new staff. “Casualisation kills the worker emotionally, physically and spiritually. It is unacceptable to the Union that running organisations would be realised at the expense of the Nigerian workers “You can imagine, the causal workers, over 2000 of them still collect between N18,000 and N20,000. This is unacceptable.” Oyelekan said the picketing will continue until the company staff the over 2000 workers. In her reaction, the Director, Human Resources, Mrs Abiodun Olubiyi  apologies to the union for the incident which occurred at their factory on Tuesday, 21st of May, 2019, expressing their total condemnation of the unacceptable actions against the union. “Regrettably, we noted with great shock, the strong accuasation against the A & P foods management. “As has been over the years, A & P Foods management remains fully committed to ensuring we continually maintain a peaceful and harmonious relationship with the National Union,” she said