Foam manufacturing company Mouka Limited has been declared the Foam and Mattress Company of the Year at the  Nigerian Real Estate and Property Awards in Abuja. The inaugural edition of the Awards saw Mouka winning the  honour in recognition of its excellent and exceptional contributions to the real estate and property sector. Receiving the award, Mouka’s Commercial Director, Oladimeji Osingunwa, said the recognition marked an attestation to the prime position Mouka continues to occupy in the minds of consumers as well as its dominance of Nigeria’s bedding industry. He added that the brand would not relent in its commitment to offering sleep solutions to teeming users of its products, even as it is poised for consistent quality delivery, which has earned the company’s products a huge market share. “This is not unusual in the last three years. Mouka Limited has been winning series of awards. In recent times, we are one of the few companies to be recognised in Africa – for the second time in a row – by the London Stock Exchange as the ‘Company to Inspire Africa’. “And we’ve won several awards, including regulatory awards from the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO), the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). This series of awards is a testimony to the innovative strategy of the business, both in terms of products and in our route to market and customer service excellence,” Osingunwa said. He further said: “We are happy that this is equally a further attestation to the fact that we’re on the right path and we will not relent on our oars because we know that for every award like this, it further gingers you to do more and puts you on your toes because your competitors are watching. “You also need to be creative and innovative and continue to come up with new things as a business, because you’re high up there and the expectation continues to be high. We know that we need to continue to raise the bar in the industry, which we’re committed to and we’ll continue to do that.” On the selection, founder of the awards, Joshua Uwabo explained that Mouka’s emergence followed due process.                          