THERE is no Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain who has unfolded governorship ambition in Bayelsa State. The non-declaration of interest in the governorship ticket has slowed down political activities in the state. Party sources said though many heavyweights in the party were secretly discussing their ambitions, they could not muster the courage to make them public because they were waiting for the body language of the Governor Seriake Dickson. A socio-political group, the Bayelsa Good Governance Initiative (BGGI), said the development has never happened before. The Convener of the group, Ebi Justin, said prior to the administration of Dickson, every electoral period was characterised by rancour and in-fighting. “But, the leadership of Governor Seriake Dickson has changed all that. It is not surprising that Bayelsa State is this calm and all aspirants are waiting for the governor to give directive and dictate the way forward for the party. “Apart from some social media activities, there has not been real politicking and nobody has declared intentions yet. This shows that Dickson has introduced a new political culture in the state, which has changed the fortunes of Bayelsa. “It was in Bayelsa that bombs were thrown at different parts of the capital city because of party crisis. Since Dickson came onboard, no politically-induced bomb or dynamite has exploded at any part of Bayelsa. “In fact, all the PDP Chiefs know who is in charge of the leadership of the party in Bayelsa. Dickson has managed all the issues in the PDP with uncommon deft and courage. Little wonder, all party members respect him and that is why they are all waiting for him to give directions to the PDP”. Justin, however, called on the governor to dictate the next level for the PDP to propel commencement of political activities in the party. He said prior to the last general elections, the atmosphere was the same in the party, until the governor asked all party members with political aspirations to declare their intentions. Justin added: “We have followed his moves and seen the way he maneuvered the terrain and managed all interests to give the PDP victory in last elections. Dickson has the Midas touch and that is why we call him the generalsimo of PDP in Bayelsa. “We are appealing to him, having observed the activities and programmes he had embarked upon to smoothen the way for the party’s victory in November, to open the floodgates of activities in the party by directing members to declare their interests”. 