THE Cross River Central senatorial battle has shifted to the tribunal. The tribunal secretary said the temple of justice will decide the winner. The contest was between a former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Dr Sandy Onor of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The district is made up six local government areas: Abi, Yakurr, Obubra, Ikom, Etung and Boki. Onor is from Etung while Ndoma-Egba is from Ikom. In result of the poll announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) indicated that Onor scored 80, 126 votes to beat Ndoma-Egba, who got 60,298. Ndoma-Egba had kicked, alleging rigging, violence, and the collusion of INEC and security agencies with the PDP. He is challenging the results in a petition to the Tribunal with number EPT/CAL/S/01/2019. The matter due to the political pedigree of both of them, is most likely to spring surprises at the tribunal. Also, there is the pervading feeling in the state that, in the history of politics, at least, since the beginning of the present democratic dispensation, the central district has always been  the hotbed. Observers feel Ndoma-Egba stand a good chance in the courts as his argument is hinged on the fact that the electoral umpire had gone ahead to announce his opponent as winner even when the number of cancelled votes were more than the difference between them. Both have had great political careers. They are grassroot politicians and stalwarts in their own right. Onor, a former local government chairman and former Commissioner  had earned a name for himself as the Original Caterpillar. According to supporters, this name is due to his ability to bulldoze and get his way. Ndoma-Egba had served in the Senate for three consecutive terms 2003 and 2015 and had risen to the position of Senate Leader. Known for his visibility and eloquence in the red chamber, he was seen as the guy who got things done, and expectations seemed to be high in anticipation of his return. Some feel that losing his bid for the Senate in the last election was a missed opportunity, which going to the tribunal may address.  Those who feel this way, think that it would be disadvantageous for the state to have a first time senator. Their sentiment  is steeped in the thinking that the ex-Senate leader had acquired the ranking in the Senate, which affords certain privileges a first timer would not get, and would have been advantageous to clinching the Presidency of the Senate. Owing to his legislative prowess and experience in tackling conflict situations, the Presidency may have wanted him to head the Red Chamber, thereby enhancing a smooth executive-legislature relation. They feel the present controversy over the leadership of the ninth senate would not have been so intense with Ndoma-Egba in the picture. “He would have been an active senator, especially at the leadership level, coming from a background of a wealth of experience, in the Ninth National Assembly. This would have been crucial to avoid the kind of relationship the executive had with the legislature in the eighth Senate. Ndoma-Egba is stable, has experience and ranking, good at resolving issues, level-headed and open and broad minded and would have seemed a natural for the leadership of the upper house of the National Assembly,” an observer noted. The complaints at the tribunal include violence, ballot box stuffing, multiple thumb printing, non-use of card readers, violence, and illegal cancellation of many elections in some areas. The petition reads in part: “Indeed the Returning Officer for Cross River State at the Presidential elections announced that 26, 000 votes were canceled in Boki. Clearly from the foregoing, serious infractions of the Electoral Law were copiously reported and duly noted by the INEC officials in all the local government areas and brought to the attention of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in a meeting with all concerned stakeholders on Monday 25thFebruary, 2019 in his office in Calabar. “Furthermore, the figures collated by INEC, including the disputed votes from Boki LGA shows a margin between the two leading candidates is far less than the registered voters in the areas were poll results were cancelled. The meaning of this is that in the spirit of the Electoral Act and 2019 Election guidelines issued by your office, the elections remain inconclusive.” With the three-man Election Tribunal in the state, headed by Justice Vincent Agata, granting Ndoma-Egba permission to serve Onor, by substituted means, the ball has been set rolling for a legal spar over the next couple of months. During the inaugural sitting of the Tribunal Ndoma-Egba’s counsel had told the panel that the court bailiffs had made futile efforts to serve Onor personally. Ndoma-Egba supporters feel this permission granted though seemingly mundane is a sign of the victory they hope to get from the courts.