Some 500 teachers in Lagos Sate enjoyed two movies at the Silverbird Cinema, Victoria Island, Lagos Thursday in commemoration of the 2019 World Teachers’ Day. The teachers, mostly drawn from the Lagos State Education District III, watched two of the latest Nollywood movies – Love is War by Omoni Oboli and For Old Times’ Sake by Chime for Art Foundation and Red TV. The initiative was courtesy of the Education District Three in collaboration with the Silver bird cinemas. Tutor-General Permanent Secretary of the District, Dr Yinka Ayandele, said the District partnered with the Cinema to help the teachers relax and feel appreciated. She said: “This is about appreciating teachers and of course it has the approval of the state government. This year’s World Teachers’ Day is the first that would be celebrated by this administration led by Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “In line with the policy of the Lagos State government to encourage public-private partnership, we talked to Silverbird. And with open arms, they accepted the suggestion to partner with Education District III. This is our first outing whereby teachers would experience some stress-free moments outside the classrooms, schools in a comfortable environment. In fact they are providing not only the film show for 500 teachers, they are also providing refreshments for them for free.” While waiting for movies, the excited teachers thanked the organisers for the initiative which not only provided an opportunity to relax but reconnect with fellow teachers they had not seen in ages.
Julius Ogunleye, NUT Chairman, Epe branch, praised the organisers for the initiative. He said: “Today is a memorable day for us; because teachers need to be appreciated. Teaching is a stressful profession. We need a day to celebrate ourselves and make ourselves relaxed. “The idea of the movies came from our TGPS. She made us to understand that before this day we have been in the classroom stressing ourselves so we should do things that would make us relax.”