 There is lack of unity amongst Nigerian Christians today. Many churches exist in Nigeria, all with different doctrines, beliefs and ways of approaching the same God. From the Orthodox churches, the Jehovah’s Witnesses, the Anglican, the Catholic church, the white garment and to the Pentecostal churches, different thoughts are served from the very many pastors and general overseers, to the expectant members. Some teach that God is so holy that he cannot behold sin, and as such, members must continually examine themselves, whether they are still in Him, in order to avoid His anger and judgement. Others say that the grace of God is sufficient, and so, it is not for man to be conscious of sin all the time, but to stand firm in the liberty and righteousness of Christ. From time immemorial in Nigerian Christianity, different issues have reared their heads, with questions on its rightness or otherwise hovering around it. A quick example is whether it is right for a woman to put on trousers, ear rings and make up. Another is on the question of tithes, and who receives it. This is a proof of the divisions that exist amongst Nigerian Christians. It is sad to note that people, most especially women, go to church just for miracles from their “man of God” in their various churches. No one wants to have a close relationship with God, learn his ways and live on earth like Him again. Another unfortunate observation reveals that a member of a church like the Redeemed Christian Church of God can give justifiable reasons why he should not be found in Christ Embassy, and a member of the Celestial Church of Christ should not worship in the Deeper Life Bible Church, or the Catholic Church. The list is endless. The big question on the unity of Nigerian Christians continues to linger. When will the divisions among Nigerian Christians end, such that true love and acceptance becomes truly evident? Like Jesus Christ prayed in the Holy Scriptures, it is for the benefit of all if Nigerian Christians will be one in faith, doctrine. Paul the Apostle, in writing to the Ephesian church, also urged them to “endeavour to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace”. He further stressed that there is only “One body, One Lord, One faith and One baptism.” This is one sure way to fulfil a line of the Nigerian national anthem “one nation bound in freedom, peace and unity” 