Students Union(SU) of  the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State, has called on government and civil society organisations to join hands with them to seek justice for victims of September 10 crisis. The Nation earlier reported how two students of the institution- Oluwaseyi Kehinde and Joseph Okonofua, were killed by the police during a protest by the students over poor electricity in Oye and and Ikole Ekiti campuses of the institution. Many other students were also injured when the protesters took their grievances to wife of the Ekiti State Governor Erelu Bisi Fayemi who coincidentally was in town to carry out her empowerment campaign. The protest turned violent after a police officer attached to Mrs Fayemi’s convoy slapped one of the students. The state government has paid a condolence visit to the bereaved families, participated in their funeral ceremonies, and footed the bill of the injured. However, the school management, state government and National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) will make their reports available on the incident this week. SU President, Awodola Oluwaseun, lamented that Nigeria practises injustice instead of independence. He said:“As the nation celebrates  the 59th  anniversary of our nationhood, it should be the day we celebrate our nation’s comfortable means of livelihood and secured sense of security, but what do we have here? “Where is our sense of security and assurance safety if extrajudicial killings of our innocent brothers and sisters continue to go unpunished? “Fuoyeites (FUOYE students) have not forgotten the evil perpetrated against us. However, we still appeal to both federal and state governments because of our civility, to seize the moments of the Independence Day in availing the deaths of our comrades. “We also use this medium to appeal to all mother union-National Association of Nigeria Students, National Association of Polytechnic Students, National Association of Academic Technologists, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, Academic Staff Union of Universities, among others, to ensure justice to the martyrs.”