The tour last week of 34 kilometres of the Lagos corridor of the Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge rail project was an eye opener that the section was fraught with impediments requiring patience and tact, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Since he learnt of the imminence of the take off of commercial activities on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, Abiodun Thomas (not real name) was one Nigerian with very high hopes. He resolved to celebrate his birthday (which came up on October 23), on the conference coach of the speed train. Thomas indeed had a birthday bash last Wednesday, but not on the coach. He was disappointed, but not deterred. Thomas is one of those Nigerians who hold tenaciously to the dream that the speed train holds. Asked last Thursday whether Nigerians would be able to utilise the speed train this year, one of the local engineers with the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) at the Agege Train Station said yes. He however put the most realistic date at between December and first quarter of next year. The engineer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Lagos corridor, spanning 45 kilometres in all (Section one – from Ebute Meta – Iju – Toyin area) remains the only challenging phase of the project. According to him, but for the absence of train stations, passenger traffic could begin on the remaining 97 kilometres from Toyin, in Iju, which is the border with the Ogun corridor, to Kilometre 157 in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The engineer’s suggestion is not novel. Minister of Transportation Mr Rotimi Amaechi, and the Nigerian Railway Corporation’s Chairman Alhaji Alhassan Musa as well as the Managing Director, Mr Fidet Okhiria, have at various times, proffered that as the only option available, if then tracks are to be put to use before the contractor completes the project. The $1.7 billion (being initial cost outside of the various variations confronting the project), Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge is the nation’s third speed train system, coming after Itakpe-Ajaokuta-Warri and Abuja-Kaduna speed trains. Amaechi had directed that the Corporation devise an arrangement that would make it possible for passengers to purchase tickets and board easily while CCECC put in place  more befitting train stations. Instructively, all the 10 train stations have already taken off and are in various stages, with CCECC disclosing it may deliver some of the smaller stations by December. Of the four sections that make the entire project span, the Lagos corridor appears most challenging. That explains why the Federal Government agreed with the contractor to fix it last to mitigate the hardship it might inflict on the people. Being a built up environment, Lagosians, especially those living around the speed train corridor, have had to bear the brunt of the development on the rail corridor. The route from Ebute Meta to Iju are strewn with impediments, such as water and gas pipeline obstruction, level crossings obstruction, bridges, buildings, and high voltage power lines, among others, all of which are being relocated to make way for the new project. As at last Thursday, the task still seemed herculean. But despite these, the contractor is optimistic that the firm will hand over to Nigerians a world class rail system. Fielding questions after the field trip that took reporters from Ebute Meta to Agege, the CCECC’s Public Relations Consultant Alhaji Abdulrouf Akinwoye said the contractor was convinced it would deliver on schedule because it had moved all its workers from the remaining three stations to the Lagos corridor to help speed up work. He said: “We have moved men, equipment and materials from all other sections to Lagos and we have sub-divided even the Lagos section into smaller units to ensure that we cope with and deliver on time this project to Nigerian government.” He said the CCECC being a world- class firm is guided by the best practices and have carried out environmental impact assessment (EIA) as well as social impact assessment (SIA) of the project on the host communities and are going out of its way to ensure that the project has the least impact on travel patterns and the people living in the communities. Akinwoye, therefore, appealed to communities that might have been at the receiving end of the project either by being cut off or being denied access or basic amenities and infrastructure that the contractor would ensure all gray areas are addressed before signing off the project. He listed Ebute Meta, Yaba, Mushin, Oshodi, Ikeja and Agege as among communities in which CCECC have constructed drainages for which has helped in reducing the huge impact of the flood that attended the heavy rainfall in recent time in those communities, as well as villages in Ogun State where a model primary school had been built to replace the ramshackle one demolished by the contractor. He applauded Lagosians for their patience with CCECC and the Federal Government on the speed train project, adding that when the rail system finally comes on stream, it would be a catalyst for the rapid development of the nation’s economy. According to him, with the proposed connection with the Apapa Wharf Port, movements of cargoes would be easier, and it would be easier to move more tankers and wagons away from the road to service last mile cargo deliveries and other smaller shuttles. Akinwoye believes the rail is the engine room of the economy as the speed train, according to him, would  unlock the various centres that had been inaccessible, which otherwise had the potential of being the economic, agricultural baskets of the nation. At Section I, the CCECC, according to the spokesman, is providing 21st century engineering solutions to challenges, such as replacement and relocation of public facilities, by ensuring that the gas and water pipelines are properly encased to prolong their lifespan and prevent their willful damage. “Recall that these gas and water pipelines had been buried underground for over 50 to 70 years, while the narrow gauge itself had been a 118-year-old asset. What we are doing is very vital because all these are our national assets and irrespective of how developments had come to meet these assets where they were buried, it is our responsibility to ensure they are further secured for eternity or until such a time there would be future development.” Akinwoye said about 1,000 direct workers were working on the Lagos end of the project, adding that with the level of work, put at about 60 percent, CCECC is keeping to the workplan and keeps its focus on the deadline approved for it by the government. “We are not unmindful of the fact that the Minister of Transportation has been critical of the CCECC in recent time and like he himself rightly agreed, for factors that were largely beyond our control as contractor, but we are assuring Nigerians that we are capable and would be able to use the remaining days of this year to transform the Lagos end of the project, which is lacking, and finish it, because we are working round the clock, to ensure this.