Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume represents the Borno South senatorial district. He is also the chairman, Senate Committee on Army. He narrates his experience on the train in an interview with Sanni Onogu. When I decided to travel to Kaduna, for safety reasons and because of what is happening these days rampantly, I decided to send for a ticket. The First Class ticket is selling for N3000 and the ordinary coach is selling for N1500. But I couldn’t get either of the two. So they gave me a ticket and they wrote “STD” on it. So I thought that one is standard. So when I went there they said they could not get the First Class nor the other one. So I collected the STD. I didn’t know that STD means standing. So I went in, and I was asking the workers where is the standard coach? They said there is no standard coach. I said no, I have a standard ticket! And the man looked at it and said distinguished Senator, you have to stand. Your ticket is for standing. So I went in there to stand for two hours from Abuja to Kaduna. And then somebody recognised me there and said ‘distinguished Senator, look at what we are going through, the people that are standing in the ordinary coach are more than the people sitting. One other thing is that one cannot stand in the First Class coach. So even if you are standing, you have to stand in the ordinary coach. So we had more people standing than the ones sitting in that coach that day. We all know what is going on on our roads from Abuja to Kaduna and vice versa. “What this means to me is that the ordinary people that are supposed to benefit from the railway services are not benefiting anymore because if you go to the Zuba garage, you can get transport to Kaduna for N700. But the ordinary coach is now N1500. And people even pay that N1500 to stand from Abuja to Kaduna. I think the government urgently needs to increase the number of coaches there and they can do it through Public-Private Partnership (PPP). So there is an opportunity there for business for those who want to invest.”