The Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide, an apex youth umbrella organisation in the Southwest has passed a vote of confidence on Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. It said his call on the needs for self-regulation in the use of the social media was in order, describing the move as crucial in promoting mutual peace and dousing any tension in the country. The group also specifically commended President Muhammadu Buhari and Osinbajo-led administration for its commitment at improving the welfare of Nigerians and tackling national challenges. The council, in a statement by its President, Aremo Oladotun Hassan, a lawyer, however, pledged its continued support to the Buhari/Osinbajo-led administration, especially with its commitment towards improving the nation’s economy and addressing the country’s security challenges. According to the statement, “Indeed, as individuals and citizens of this great nation, it is our responsibility as good citizens to use social media positively and not allow it to become an instrument to promote conflict or heat up the polity. Thus, we must regulate ourselves on social media, even without government regulation. “The Vice President also harped on the importance of national unity and brotherhood among all Nigerians. “We see this move as most important to promoting mutual peace and dousing any tension as a result of some individuals who try to stoke the embers of bigotry, religious differences and ethnic sentiments via vituperations on social media. “Again, this calls for all Nigerians to guard against the excesses on fake news and lies promoted on social media platforms that are capable of triggering civil disorder and unnecessary crises.” Expressing confidence in the administration  to tackle security and other challenges, the council said the successful meeting President Buhari held with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, was a clear indication of the federal government’s commitment to improve the welfare of the citizens through enhanced security and economy. It added that despite the unfortunate incidents of kidnapping and banditry in some parts of the country, it was confident that the efforts of the administration in the fight against insurgency in the North East, armed banditry, kidnapping and other sundry crimes in other parts of the country would soon yield positive result. While commending President, Putin and the entire Russians for giving Africa a ray of hope and support, he reiterated that Russia was a strong and dependable super power and ally, hence Nigeria’s recent move in Sochi was highly commendable. “It is important to highlight Presidents Buhari and Putin’s landmark meeting on Wednesday wherein both agreed to put Nigeria-Russia relations on the front burner and pursue the completion of all abandoned projects initiated by both countries. The two leaders also agreed to start new infrastructure projects and expand trade and investment, security and military support at a bilateral meeting held on the sidelines of ongoing Russia-Africa Summit, in Sochi, Russia, last Wednesday,” it added.