Ex-model and actress Blessing Egbe is one of the producers who takes her time in producing outstanding movies. With lots of awards for her works which include Two Brides and a Baby, Lekki Wives series, among others, the actress/producer speaks to DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, on her new production Ten Virgins, which was reported to have cost N50million, among other issues. Tell us about your new movie Ten Virgins The Ten Virgins is a film about the parable of the ten virgins as recorded in the bible. In it, ten girls are betrothed to a great prince and when he goes away on an infinite journey, he commands them all to remain faithful in waiting for his return. When the girls begin to face temptations, it becomes a struggle to remain faithful to the end. Ten Virgins is a musical drama. My intention is to tell a story that is unique and entertaining. We have achieved that goal, so far. This movie derives its strength from the quality of story-telling, not just the actors and actresses. We paid attention to technical details and all the elements that make a movie great. Was the story written by you? Yes, the story was written by me. It is an adaptation of the parable of the ten virgins. Nollywood needs substance and that substance starts from the depth of the stories we tell. Here, we have a good story that is well told in Ten Virgins. It is a modern day musical. It is so simple, yet so captivating. What were the challenges in producing this particular work? The challenges faced on this was working with a large number of cast and staying true to the overall look and feel of the film in terms of art design. We met challenge trying to live up to the ancient Victorian look we chose as the artistic look to bring out the real story has been told in the bible. What are your expectations on the movie? My expectation is simple; for as many people as possible to get to watch the film. The message of hope and endurance is one that is paramount in the story and many ought to be revived by it. What I’ve done is to take the bull by the horns, damn all consequences that come with not bombarding my film with the same old faces and bring to the open these new talented guys who will match any old talent any day, anytime. Who are the cast featured? They are new faces: Osereme Inegbenebor, Ogechi Aniegboka, Leelee Byoma, Chinonso Young, Bukky Okorodus, Chidera Makatah, Blessing Effiong, Damilare Kuku, Honey Adum, Aanu Adeleke, Priye George and Tumbosin Aiyedehin. What determines a movie as a cinema standard? I’d say production quality and entertaining factor. What attracts you in accepting a story for production? I am attracted to telling stories that connect to me; stories that have soul with high moral values. As a producer, do you still produce, if there is a flop with a previous production? Yes, I do. You win some. You lose some. But the show must go on. One never knows which of their projects will make the most profit. Have we seen the end of Lekki Wives? Lekki Wives series had a finale season. We had plans for a film version. But we are not 100 percent certain it will see the light of day. But never say never; you never know. Is there a chance of having the series on digital platform for easy accessibility? Yes. People can watch the complete season of Lekki Wives on my YouTube channel: B concept Network. When did the journey into movie productions started? My journey started in 2004 with the film The Rivals. It actually began after graduation, when I decided to indulge fully in writing, producing and starring in my own works. You are also into modelling, tell us about it. My modelling career began with Silverbird International Fashion show. Shortly after, I won the ECOWAS Best Model competition in 2002. Through that win, I got plunged into the world of international modelling and, in the process, settled in Cape Town, South Africa. I featured in several television commercials in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Ireland, and other places for big brands like Investec Bank, Smart Car, and Snickers Chocolate. The high points of my modelling career was when I represented Nigeria at the Next Top Model Competition in Lebanon in 2003 and then working with Tyra Banks for the America Next Top Model competition. But after a while, I took the chance to pursue a career in acting. Then my choices of career switch and earned me a degree in scriptwriting and production at the City Varsity Film School in Cape Town, South Africa. Four scenes as a barmaid to a renowned female thespian in my first professional appearance earned me N8, 000 in the movie Bleeding Heart. Is everyone meant to be a producer, as long as you can act? A producer is not an actor. An actor is one who embodies a given character and delivers it during filming. A producer is one that puts everything together. From finding the funds for it and choosing the actors and crew members. What are the things you need to make a production appealing? A good story wins. Coupled with good production values and actors that can bring the story to life. As an award-winning producer, share with us your first award experience please One of my first was BON awards where my film Two Brides and a baby had 11 nominations and won quite a number including Best Film. A satisfying feat that was for cast and crew. How do you combine family and your busy career? I try to always balance the home front and the work force. Thorough planning is the key for me and that’s how I have operated since. Even after childbirths, you still look gorgeous. What is the secret? Thanks for the compliment. I try as much and advise as many who have had kids to keep fit and eat right. Not an easy ride, I must say, but I try to make a conscious effort. What have made you one of the scandal-free actresses since you started your career? My lifestyle, I guess.