Ondo Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu at the weekend presented cash gift of N100, 000 to South Africa returnees of Ondo State origin. This is part of the measures to re-settle them in their various communities. Akeredolu, who presented the cash gift in his office while receiving the South African returnees, following xenophobic attack also promised to give necessary support and provide an enabling environment for them to start a new life. The governor ,who was represented by his Deputy, Agboola Ajayi, condemned the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians and other foreign nationals living in South Africa by South Africans. He described the unwarranted attacks as barbaric and condemnable which should be discouraged. The governor said president Muhammadu Buhari has also visited South Africa to condemn the ugly incident and look at lasting solution to the incident. He particularly charged the returnees not to be discouraged by what had happened to them but be ready to start a new life as they returned safely to their fatherland. The governor assured them of his administration’s readiness to assist them in settling down in their various communities and ameliorate their present conditions. Akeredolu, who informed them that his administration has provided various windows of opportunities including youths and women empowerment, agricultural, entrepreneurship programmes among several others, advised them to avail themselves with any of them to better their lives. He also charged the returnees not to be hostile with any foreigners around them so that African countries could be a better place for all. The governor equally appreciated the spirited efforts of the management of Air Peace Airline by conveying the returnees free of charge. He further thanked his Senior Special Assistant on Diaspora Affairs, Fola Olasehinde-Vincente, in ensuring the success of the programme. Olasehinde-Vincente, commended the governor for his kind gesture and support given to the returnees to ensure they settle down peacefully and happily. She equally admonished them to strive to integrate properly back to the society and eschew all forms of crimes and criminalities. Some of the returnees, including Jenty Edisemi and Sholanke Omolara, who appreciated the state government for the support, explained that their experience in South Africa was very stressful. Ends.