A professor of Law at Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Olubayo Oluduro, has advocated the application of Law in surviving  environmental disaster in Nigeria. Oludoro delivered the university’s 14th inaugural lecture with the theme: Surviving the Armageddon: the law as elixir for environmental crimes in Nigeria’s oil industry. He described law as a tool for social engineering, a highly efficient means of countering environmental crimes and inducing necessary changes, preferable to other instruments of change. Oludoro said: “The advantages of Law as an instrument of effecting the preferred change can be attributed to the fact that law is seen as legitimate, and institutionalised backed by mechanisms of enforcement. More importantly, it can adapt itself to change social circumstances without necessarily changing its form or structure. According to him, environmental Armageddon refers to any environment that is under assault, siege or war of any type which contribute to its destruction. He cited the environment, individuals, communities and future generations as victims of environmental crimes. He noted that the ‘ecological Armageddon’ already in Nigeria as experienced in the Niger Delta ecosystem is depicted by endemic water shortage, global warming and pipe lines explosions, thus a negative impact on human, animal and plant life which is nothing short of environmental catastrophy. Oludoro proposed stricter enforcement of environmental regulations as a tool in addressing issues of environmental crimes in the Nigerian oil industry, “When an environmental violation put the environment or public health at risk, environmental protection is compromised and there are significant societal cost that may warrant sanction,” Oludoro warned. He urged the contributions of the civil society and environmental NGOs in the advocacy and enforcement of environmental crimes in Nigeria through training and capacity building in corporation with regulatory agency and governmental authorities. “NGOs may help to undertake an active role in the enforcement of environmental crimes by educating the public through media campaign on the need to report incident of potential environmental harm, garner popular  support to lobby the government, support more efficient monitoring and enforcement actions, shame corporations and push for change in policy,” he added. He, however, decried the notion that the enforcement of strict environmental standard especially in a developing country may hinder rapid development and economic growth. He, therefore, urged the government to break from the current model of development at any cost to development that is humanly sustainable, and which meet the needs of the present generation without compromising the capacity of the future generations to do same. “Until international mechanisms develop measures to hold oil MNCs who violate human right accountable for their actions, prosecution at the domestic courts remain one of the only mechanisms for reining in their activities. Hence the need to develop the domestic forum for criminal prosecution of violators of environmental crimes,” he added.