Vera CHIDI-MAHA A man’s facial look is of great importance to some women. A handsome and good looking man is what a great percentage of us look out for. You know when that kind of guy steps into a room and temporarily takes your breath. The type that makes your knees go weak. He is that guy with this stunning grace that the woman keeps dreaming about even long after he has left your presence. Talk about black men, they are the greatest turn on for any woman. There is much to be desired in this kind of ‘mankind’. There’s always a point of attraction. In the good old days, men were separated from boys by their pot-bellies. As in, the bigger your tummy the more you were assumed to be loaded and successful. It was a sign of good living. In fact, it was a woman’s delight. Then, ladies would  flock around such men. As a matter of fact, a male friend of mine claimed he almost lost his life to alcohol, in a bid to win over the women, thinking that drinking heavily would enlarge his stomach. So our question is: if a man has only good looks (depending on our definition of good looks, it could be a fine face, pot belly, bald head etc) is it enough to win a woman’s heart? Some women look for specific features in a man. Some look for solidly built, macho looking, broad shouldered men.Some even prefer  good dentition. A good dress sense of course would not hurt. Another group of women actually go beyond a man’s facial or outward appearance. Princess Tosin, a respondent, believes that a man needs more than a good look to win a woman’s heart. She asked:’of what use are  a man’s looks if he does not have money?’ She added: ‘What is a man without money? It is money that makes a man.’ Studies have shown that some women, on sighting a man with lots of cash to play around with, throw their professional ambitions to the wind, abandon jobs, crash out of school and trample on former fiances (no matter how good looking) in a frenzied rush to where they think there is inexhaustible gold to be dug. There was a particular young lady who ordinarily would have made a good housewife for any man. She got  married to  a man she had apparently  overrated. Of course, the man made it all up, courting her with a new car he bought with the last of his savings and climaxed the drama with a carnival of a five-star hotel wedding, courtesy of an overdraft. A few weeks later there was nothing more to see. The show was over. Speaking objectively, it is imperative that one balances all aspects of life. Once the attraction between a man and a woman is mutual, every other thing will fall into place. Good looks or not, money or no money, the mutual feelings of both parties will naturally attract all these and more.