AS the peace panel set up to pacify displeased members commences its reconciliatory efforts, Sam Egburonu, Associate Editor, reports on how far the committee can go and the likely effects on the fortunes of the party Since David Lyon emerged the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State after the September 4 primary, informed observers of the intrigues that threw him up have expressed fear that unless the leadership of the party takes a bold step to forestall likely in-fighting, the party’s fortunes in the November 16 governorship election may be negatively affected. Trouble started as soon as the Bayelsa APC governorship primary election committee, headed by Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, declared Lyon as the winner of the primary because most of the other frontline aspirants, like the immediate past Minister of State for Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri, and Preye Aganaba, a founding member, among others, voiced their dissatisfaction with the decision. Aganaba also approached the court to seek nullification of the primary. Concerned members of the party and other stakeholders have since called the leader of the party in the state, Timipre Sylva, and other leaders for reconciliation as a way of ensuring that the party will enter the governorship race a united family. Last week, the party set up an 18-member committee chaired by Chief Diekivie Ikiogha, a former Chief of Staff to Governor Seriake Dickson, and one of the founding PDP’s members in the state, who cut ties with both Dickson and PDP in 2015 when he defected to APC alongside many of his supporters. Confirming the party’s moves to reconcile displeased members, the Bayelsa State APC Chairman, Jothan Amos, said the party would work hard to avoid a repeat of what happened in Rivers State where the party was barred from presenting candidates because of suits filed by some members. As he puts it, “We are talking with them, in every political process of such nature there must be some aggrieved minds. “We have set up a committee to handle that with a clear template but we are not going to tele-guide them.” The Nation investigation during the week however shows that some of the major aggrieved members are still determined to fight the party during the election. We however found out that the Ikiogha-led committee has commenced consultations. A source close to the leadership of APC told us on Friday that the “committee was at the APC National Secretariat yesterday (Thursday) and is on the way to Bayelsa where the actual work would be done.” Although our source refused to give details on what transpired in Abuja, he explained that the meeting at the Abuja Secretariat is coming on the heels of reports that one of the aggrieved aspirants, Aganaba, may have transferred his case to Abuja. Our source said he understands the matter would be coming up early this week in Abuja. Commenting on how far the panel is likely to go in reconciling the matter before the election and the likely effect on APC if the aggrieved aspirants refused to back down, Comrade Wilfred Frank Ogbotobo, one of the APC founding fathers in Bayelsa State and the Director-General of Timipre Sylva Support Organisation (TSO), told The Nation in a telephone chat on Friday that the party is set to win the election even if the aggrieved members refused to see reason to make the necessary sacrifices. As he puts it, “In my opinion, as much as it is a welcome idea, the so-called reconciliation move is an intellectual exercise. When you talk about APC in Bayelsa State, it’s about lots of sacrifices. “The Bayelsa APC was built on sacrifices made by the Grassroots Movement. His Excellency, Chief Timipre Marlyn Sylva, made incalculable sacrifices to raise the party edifice. “From 2015 to date, a lot of ambitions have been sacrificed to ensure that the party anchored and made its presence felt in Bayelsa politics. “Moreover, the mode of primary adopted for the governorship primary was an outcome of a popular decision, and it was the same mode that was adopted in the first governorship primary of the APC in Bayelsa State. “Hence, I don’t think any loyal and committed party faithful will go against the party’s direction at this point except that person is acting a script that is aimed at subverting the success of the Bayelsa State APC.” On the chances of the party in the face of the disagreements, Ogbotobo said, “We are all happy that we were able to produce a very popular and acceptable candidate for the party that Bayelsans are feverishly looking forward to welcome as their next governor. Honestly, no true party faithful will want to go against the momentum.” The disagreement notwithstanding, most insiders said the APC candidate, David Lyon appears to be enjoying increasing acceptability. But as The Nation reported recently, there are other stakeholders who have warned that “Lyon’s popularity alone can’t win Bayelsa for APC.” For example, we quoted ex-militant leader and chieftain of the APC in Bayelsa State, Eris Paul, popularly known as Ogunboss, as warning leaders of the party against carefree attitude in their approach to win the November 16 governorship election. He urged the national and state leaders of the party not to underrate the Peoples Democratic Party and its state leader, Governor Seriake Dickson, ahead of the poll. “I am shocked when some party faithful claim that we have gotten the crowd, the numbers and even the publicity is on our side. But that does not get the job done. The might, the crowd, the number and media publicity are good designs. A good design in politics is a great combination of common sense, but not enough to say you have already arrived “Yes, you have the chances and opportunity that are knocking on our door as APC, but the most common way people give out their chances is by thinking they have arrived when they have not,” he warned in Yenagoa. As the peace panel arrives Bayelsa this weekend, even as the case challenging the result of the APC primary kicks off in Abuja, concerned stakeholders said the leaders must do everything useful so that the party will not suffer the fate it suffered in Rivers State. Ogbotobo confided that the party leadership in the state is aware of the danger and is doing everything to ensure that APC will participate in and win the governorship election.