The Ministry of Science and Technology said the European Union (EU) and German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) through the Nigeria Competitiveness Project (NICOP)  are willing to partner in the implementation of Nigeria’s leather products policy. The draft strategic Implementation plan for leather and leather products policy which is waiting for implementation, the ministry said will diversify the economy. Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu said it has been projected that the leather industry stands between 40 to 50 million skins annually, generating between $600 million to $800 million annually. Represented by the Minister of State for Science and Technology, Barr. Mohammed Abdullahi, spoke yesterday in Abuja at the National leather and leather products policy implementation plan validation workshop. Onu said to achieve this, there is need for value addition to the leather value chain to upgrade its position in the regional and global trade of leather commodities with varying implications on intra and inter trade. He said: “Therefore, permit me to congratulate all of you for producing this draft strategic Implementation Plan for the Leather and Leather Products Policy. I have been reliably informed that the EU and GIZ through NICO in Nigeria are willing to partner with us in the implementotion of this Policy to diversify the Nigeria economy. I appreciate you. “It has been projected that the Nigerian leather industry tans between 40 to 50 million skins annually, hence it generates between $600 million to $800 million annually.1t is therefore believed to have the potential to increase the nations’ foreign earnings. “To achieve this vital feat, there is need for value addition in Nigeria’s Leather Value Chain to upgrade its position in the regional and global trade of leather commodities with varying implications on intro and inter trade, backward integration, employment generation, industrial deepening, increased productivity and competitiveness.”