Experts in the engineering sector have pledged their commitment towards finding alternative solution to Nigeria dependence on oil for its economic survival. The Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Uli Campus, Anambra state, Engr. John Atuchukwu gave the assurance Thursday ahead of the 4th international conference of the institution. He regretted the lingering dependence of the nation’s economy on oil, saying the choice of the conference theme, “Nigeria Beyond Oil: The Role of Engineers” was informed by the challenge. He said: “More than 90% Nigerians rely on crude oil for their source of income and livelihood. “The conference will offer us opportunity to come up with useful contributions towards diversifying the economy. “The essence of the conference is to further ignite interest amongst engineers in researching on alternatives to oil.” Atuchukwu added that the institution have selected seasoned experts in the field with years of experience  who would deliver papers during the event including Engr. Chief Barth Nwibe and Engr. Chris Azubogu, member of the House of Representatives. “We have also chosen the Deputy Dean, Faculty of Engineering, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia state to chair the event,” he added. According to him, the faculty had continued to expand in all frontiers of learning with the aim of becoming one of the major centres of teaching, learning and research in Engineering. He added: “The positive impacts of the previous conferences are evidence of the laudable objectives of the conferences and foresight/visionary qualities of our previous and present Vice Chancellors in taking the University to the next level. “It is worthy of note that all our Engineering Departments were accredited by COREN and NUC.” Atuchukwu further disclosed that the institution had won laurels in International, National and State competitions at various times and various fields. His words: “The NUTA-BOLTS TEAM in 2012 competed at the House of Commons in London and won the Global Competition by beating teams from America, Britain, Trinidad and Tobago, Bahrain to emerge winners. “The team was led by our erudite Prof. Philip N. Atanmo (FNSE) (Former Dean of the Faculty) and our indefatigable technologists Engr. David C. Egboka and Engr. Gbasouzor I. Austin. “The team designed the famous “UGO” race car. In 2015 the IMECHE/NUTA-BOLT Team of Faculty of Engineering entered for the IMECHE SPEAK OUT competition for Engineering students in Nigerian universities and took the first position with the exploration of Bast-Fibre from Banana leaves as alternative hair attachment weavon. “This year, our students have won competitions organized by Committee of Deans of Engineering and Technology of Nigerian Universities (CODET) taking First Position at South East Zonal Level held at Owerri and Third Place in the National competition held at Abuja on 1st August 2019. “We also won first position in projects Exhibition tagged TECHNO EXPO 2019 organized by Anambra State Government, Ministry of Tertiary Education, Science and Technology,  Awka on the 8th–10th October, 2019. “Our IMECHE Team traveled to Calabar on the same dayand won first prize in another competition keenly contested by engineering students from various Nigerian Universities.”