By Temilolu Okeowo Dear Aunty Temilolu, I am 19 years old and I have a baby who is a year and some months. I tell you in recent times, I always feel bad about myself that I have a baby. I had promised to keep myself till I get married before the baby came. Now, I feel I’m not going to have a man who would cherish me because I already have a baby. Is that true or just my thinking? I would have terminated the pregnancy but for the fear of God. Please counsel me. God bless you ma. Anonymous My darling anonymous, I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart for fearing God enough not to abort that destiny! I may sound strange but I also thank God you are a mother today! Yes! That child may have come from a sinful relationship but God decided to release that child into the earth for reasons best known to Him! But you will know in future! You may be tagged all sorts now BUT ONE DAY, YOU MAY HAVE CAUSE TO LOOK BACK AND THANK GOD FOR ALLOWING THAT CHILD COME YOUR WAY INSPITE YOUR DISOBEDIENCE! You don’t want to know the horrible pain too many women are going through just because they can’t conceive a child! (Girls, this is not a leeway for you to engage in premarital sex!) You see, not every bad or unpleasurable thing that happens to us in life is our making. A lot of things that happen to us in life were fated to happen and some are designed by the enemy to confuse us and derail us from our divine paths of destiny.  If you had been warned over and over again against having a boyfriend and you refused to listen but ended up in the family way,  although you have to bear the consequences of the path you chose to follow but eventually you have to forget about the troubles that come with it and align yourself with God so His divine agenda for you can manifest! Asides this, when a family pattern has been set and you are not well-equipped to ensure you don’t follow that pattern, how can you avoid it? If your mother had you in her teens/out of wedlock if care is not taken, you’ll have a child that way too. When I emphasize on concentrating on your spirituality as a teenager and eschewing boyfriends, I know what I am talking about! A lot of you are not bad children but when one wrong emotion is allowed to gain grounds in your life, I tell you the devil takes over. No matter what you brought upon yourself or what was fated to happen to you, in order not to end up in the gallows of life (which is what the devil and your detractors want for you) and end up missing God’s wondrous agenda for you, you have to totally surrender to God and care ONLY about what He thinks about you and wishes for you! He already told us in Isaiah 8:18 that we are made for signs and wonders. The enemy doesn’t like this and would do everything to stop us. Even if out of your youthful exuberance you already have 2 kids for 2 different men out of wedlock, you can still align with God’s divine agenda for your life and have the best of the noble men in the world run after you. Certainly, with God all things are possible! If you’ve been badly stigmatized and ashamed of your life; wallowing in self-pity and crying all the time, hanging your head low, you are disappointing and belittling God while you are glorifying the devil and making him laugh at you! Cheer up, my dear! Don’t allow the negative voice of anyone get at you. Do not be conformed to the world in your thinking. Brace up and concentrate on the word of God and His glorious plans for your destiny. If you can follow him with all your heart, you will be amazed at how your mockers would eventually bow for you and pray that God glorifies them the way He glorified you. Before you were born, God gave you a unique mixture of spiritual gifts, passions, abilities, personality, and experiences. There’s no one like you in the entire universe because, in part, there’s no one with your unique mix of talents.  IF I WERE YOU, I’D MAKE THE BEST OF THE ABOVE; LIVE A COMPLETELY HOLY LIFE AND COME AND SEE WHETHER THE WORLD’S MOST HONOURABLE MEN WOULD NOT RUN AFTER YOU WHEN GOD DECIDES TO SHOWCASE YOU HIMSELF! Yes, my dear! I invite you to follow me on Facebook – TEMILOLU OKEOWO (not Temilolu okeowo girls club or TEMILOLU OKEOWO Girls Club group). Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.