Those conversant with the political melo-drama in the National Assembly since 1999, would attest to the fact that the fear of the Hon. Farouk Lawan, a fierce legislator, witty in nature and politically sound, is the beginning of wisdom. The Kano state born politician was in 1999-2015 elected into the Green Chambers representing the Bagwai/Shanono, Federal Constituency Kano State. Lawan rose to his political crescendo after her served as the chairman House Committee on Finance under former Speaker Aminu Masari. Farouk galvanised some important issues, revealing some fraudulent activities. His fearless and uncompromising nature, despite wavering storm by strong political opposition, earned him the moniker ‘Mr. Integrity’. However, he formed a caucus in the House named the; ‘Integrity Group’. They opposed the first female Speaker Patricia Etteh, after being paraded for financial mismanagement, which led to her resignation before the emergence of Dimeji Bankole. After being elected for his fourth term in 2011, Lawan’s political odyssey nosedived, taking a negative twist. His sobriquet became the opposite. Lawan was bestowed with an appointment as the Chairman of House Committee to investigate the federal government on fuel subsidy. At that very moment, Lawan never knew the office that came as a blessing in disguise, would eventually sink his political dynasty. According to reports filed by Lawan and his committee members, lots of fraudulent activities were detected. A whooping $6.8million was paid for petroleum products subsidy that were never delivered. Farouk’s political career received a jab when the human in him came to the fore. His integrity was put to test when he allegedly solicited for bribe from Femi Otedola. Farouk reportedly demanded for $3m as kickback to cancel the name of Otedola’s companies from his report before presenting it to the House. He was later paid $500,000 by Otedola in cash. On collecting the slush funds, Lawan was caught on a planted secret camera. Afterwards, his political career crumbled like the biblical wall of Jericho. When Lawan, saw that he might be indicted by the footage, showing how he collected bribe from Otedola, he quickly played a fast one, claiming he collected the cash to expose blackmail and was going to inform the committee and House about it. He was arrested alongside his cohorts, suspected for bribery scandal and charged to court. Ever since his ordeal with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the political empire, he struggled to build over the years, failed to resurrect. His loyalists and followers deserted him. They withdrew their support for him as he failed to return to the Lower Chamber in 2015. According to a close source stated he is struggling with his dwindling political career. “Farouk has lost his political clout to misadventure and political misfortune. He is still struggling for political relevance. With the way things are going now, I’m not sure he can ever bounce back. That stain on him has crashed him politically,” the source stated. It was further gathered that the former legislator is desperate to bounce back from his political woes but every attempt has hit the rocks.