Marriage is not supposed to be a wrestling contest, but it may require some ‘holding down’ at some points in the union to ensure that the husband and wife remain faithful to the ‘for better for worse’ vow. The occasional struggle, not necessarily physical, to hold each other to submission must have informed the topic of this piece which was the subject of a hilarious and insightful pidgin radio discussion programme I listened to last Sunday on Faaji FM of the Raypower Radio Network.   Most of the callers offered what the presenter, Josiah Wampa, considered vague answers to how they have sustained their marriages over the years. “Love, Prayers, Care. All these one na big grammar, make una tell the thing we una de do gangan take hold your husband or wife down wey he or she no say he no do again,” Wampa said. The real practical answers then came in torrents. “I dey satisfy my husband with anything wey he want anytime, anywhere.” “I dey call my husband the name wey the mama dey call am and I know how and when to talk to him to get what I want. For the thing wey husband and wife dey do for night I no dey kere, I dey try well well. “I dey buy my wife gifts and dey give am money because without money, no love. I know the food he likes and prepare it very well. I de dey patient for my wife even when na she offend me and she go come beg me later. “I don’t get angry when he gets angry. I know his mumu button and know when to press it,” the callers continued to the satisfaction of the presenter who hilariously responded: “Yes, these are the practical things. Even Bible say, prayers without work no go work.” So how does my own madam Rokusbaby hold me down and make me continue to love her even more than when we married in 1992? Among many other things, one of the very simple one which young couples should know is knowing what their spouses like and providing it. My wife has a way of listening to me talk about what I like and surprising me with it without informing me. One of my favourite food which I am not sure I have eaten at home but mention once in a while how I enjoy eating it in restaurants is the Eba prepared with yellow garri in its firm mould. A night ago, my wife surprised me with my favourite at dinner. She had to go out of her way while returning from work to buy the yellow garri. Did I enjoy it? Hmmm.. yes I did, but she owned up without me saying so that she knew she didn’t exactly prepare it the way the ‘Ajokuta ma mumi’ people do. That she got me my favourite was more than enough than any other thing. I just love her for that and many other things she has done to show me practical love and care and will do anything for her. Talk of mumu button! What I’m not sure I will do for her is to like a singer said is slap an agbero for her case. I will prefer somebody else does. One thing I have also learnt to do over the years is listen to my wife for as long as possible even if I am not in the mood to. Women like it. They always have stories to tell and you will be injuring their emotions if you don’t have time. Even if you have to pretend, hear their most times genuine desires, aspirations and sometimes tales by moonlight out and respond to what they are saying. Listen and offer an advice. Be their gist partner and laugh out loud when there is need to like you used to do before many other things caught your attention. A marriage counsellor said one of the reasons a woman whose husband bought her an expensive car will not mind sleeping with her driver, however ugly, is because he willingly listens to all madam’s stories and even offers advice and a shoulder to cry on when the husband thinks all she needs is the luxury and not attention.