The Ondo State Police Command have arrested one Simeon Anyaegbu in connection with the alleged armed robbery and gruesome murder of a Catholic Priest, Reverend Father Godwin Ofonyelu and his younger brother, Obikwelu Ofonyelu. Anyaegbu was apprehended last week Tuesday and brought to Akure three days after by men of the State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Port Harcourt, Rivers State  following a tip-off. The Catholic Priest and his brother were allegedly set ablaze with their car by the suspect while travelling along Owo-Ose–Ikare Akoko road on their way from Lagos sometimes in 2015. It was learnt that since the suspect was arrested one week ago, it was expected to be charged to court,but police men in charge of the case were alleged of complicity. The family has now raised the alarm over the delay in charging the suspect to court by the police. It would be recalled that in 2015, a group of armed men ambushed and killed Rev. Father Godwin Ofonyelu, 40 years, and his brother Late Obikwelu Ofonyelu, 36 years, along Owo-Ose road. Anyaegbu who is of Umuajana Village, Ebenebe, Awka North Local Government, Anambra State was alleged to have masterminded the armed robbery and the killings of the two men because of the land dispute in Anambra State. Christian Ofonyelu, who is the father of the two dead siblings, called for justice on the gruesome murder of his children. He also raised the alarm over threat to his life and other family members by one Simeon Anyaegbu, suspected to be behind the death of his children. It was learnt that the deceased were coming from Lagos when hoodlums waylaid them between Ose and Oba-Akoko and shot them several times while the vehicle in which they were travelling was said to have consequently burst into flames. In a petition addressed to the Deputy Commissioner of Police(DCP) Ondo State Police Command Akure,Ondo State,dated August 19,the deceased father, through his legal counsels said  “this is is to inform you that one Simeon Nonye Anyaegbu of Umuajana Village, Ebenebe, Awka North Local Government, Anambra State has confessed to masterminding the armed robbery and their killings because of the land dispute he has with our client.” The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Femi Joseph who confirmed the arrest of the suspect, said the police would follow due process in investigating the case. The Police spokesman added that the case would be charged to court at the appropriate time.