Nsa Gill, Calabar  The trial of journalist and rights activist, Agba Jalingo suffered another delay on Wednesday after he pleaded not guilty to the amended charges and the prosecution counsel applied for an adjournment. Shortly after taking his plea on the amended charges, the prosecution Counsel, Dennis Tarhemba, a Deputy Superintendent of Police asked for a short date to continue the trial. The prosecution counsel said he was not ready for the case Wednesday as he equally had to attend another case at the Appeal Court but the defense Counsel, led by Adeyinka Olumide-fusika SAN faulted prosecution argument. Olumide-Fusika SAN argued that “it is untrue. Totally untrue as the Appeal Court was not seating at the time.” Noting that it’s just one of those ways the prosecution counsel had been using to further delay the court from commencing the trial proper. The led counsel to Jalingo mounted arguments on why no further delay should be entertained and in the course of any at the instance of the prosecution; his client should be granted bail. At a point, an argument ensued between the presiding Judge, Justice Simon Amobeda and Fusika and he quickly ordered the court to stand down for 10 minutes, which was later extended before the Judge returned to rule on the defense counsel application for bail in the instance of adjournment at the instance of the prosecution. Justice Simon Amobeda in his ruling refused to grant the application of the defense counsel and stated his readiness to take the case every week until it was dispensed with. He warned the prosecution counsel that any further delay will attract an unpleasant decision from him “and heavens will not fall”. He adjourned the case to 5th and the 6th of November for the trial to commence. The first charge against Jalingo which bordered on cultism in an attempt to force Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State to resign has been amended to be an act of terrorism perpetrated against the Federal Government. The initial charges preferred against Jalingo bordered on terrorism, treasonable felony, cultism and attempt to topple the Cross River State government The Judge had earlier on October 23, 2019, granted leave for the prosecution to amend its charges. Citizen Journalist Agba Jalingo pleaded “not guilty” to the four charges. It would be recalled that the Judge had earlier granted the prosecution application to have her star witness testify under a mask Under the conditions, the public and the press will not be allowed into the Courtroom when the witness is testifying, Justice Amobeda ruled. He also held that the witness will testify behind curtains in a cubicle and to a camera. The defendant and his counsel will also not be privy to the name, alias or any other detail of the witness.