Osagie Otabor, Bénin  Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has explained why his administration did not sack any teacher. Governor Obaseki said he rather opted to up-skill the teachers by making the right investment through the Edo-BEST initiative. Obaseki who was represented by Commissioner of Education, Mr. Jimoh Ijegbai, spoke at the NPDC/Seplat Pearls Quiz Competition/Prize Giving Ceremony. He stated that his administration was ready to partner professionals, non governmental organizations (NGOs), research institutions and entrepreneurs to improve the life chances of children through the application of science, technology and innovation. Governor Obaseki stated that changes happening within the education sector were spearheaded by the existing teachers adding that the results have been so dramatic. Chief Executive Officer SEPLAT, Mr. Austin Avuru represented by General Manager Western Assets SEPLAT, Mr. Chima Njoku, said the programme was designed to rekindle the spirit of academic excellence and healthy competition in Nigeria youths by motivating, encouraging and rewarding the scholarship spirit in them. Avuru listed projects delivered to schools through the initiative to include language laboratory, three roofing projects, decked block-of-classrooms, interlocking stones for an entire school premises designed to stave off erosion, five computer laboratories in different schools and four brand new school buses. He said the NPDC/Seplat JV Pearls Quiz is an annual competition for all secondary schools in Delta and Edo States and the objective is to improve the academic standards in both states which are their hosts. “The programme aims to rekindle the spirit of academic excellency and healthy competition in the youths by motivating, encouraging and rewarding the scholarship spirit in their young minds while also inculcating the benefits of team work in them.” Out of the 862 schools that participated in the exercise, Don Bosco Science Academy, Ekpoma, took first position and received N7million while Peniel Academy, Agbor, Delta State took second and got N3m. The Deeper Life High School, Opete, Delta State took third and received N1million. Students and teachers were also rewarded with laptops, cash prizes, and learning materials, including stationary.