More chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State have cautioned activists believed to be supporters of Chief Donatus Nwankpa, who have been leading campaigns against the re-nomination of Chief Nwogu Nwogu as the Commissioner representing the state on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). One of the APC chieftains, who frowned at the recent attacks and petitions against Nwogu’s appointment, is Dr. Emmanuel Ndukwe, the Chairman of the Governing Board of Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). Dr. Ndukwe told The Nation that the recent antagonism by some elements against Nwogu was misplaced. He said: “It is unfortunate that Donatus Nwankpa’s group is not happy with President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of Nwogu as the NDDC commissioner representing Abia. “That is why they asked for the withdrawal of the well-deserved appointment purporting in an alleged petition that Nwogu is not a recognized member of APC. “We are contesting such reckless claim because Nwogu is a well-known APC member, a great grassroots mobiliser who worked for Buhari and delivered his units for APC and Buhari in the presidential election. “He has been a staunch Buhari and Chief Ikechi Emenike follower from ANPP to CPC and now APC. “He is a known Buharist in Abia. So it is ridiculous for some people everybody knows actually worked against the party in the last governorship election to turn round and begin to fight against Nwogu’s appointment. “Buhari knows what he is doing; he knows his true supporters and faithful party men. He rewards faithfulness.” He added: “When I served as the State Coordinator for Buhari Campaign in 2015, Nwogu served as the Zonal Coordinator for Ukwa West and he delivered his units then. “But these people, who frustrated APC in the last elections are today maligning Nwogu because of their selfish interest. “In the overall interest of Abia and APC, Ndukwe advises that “those after Nwogu’s job should strive for more appointments from the federal government instead of fighting to remove Ikechi Emenike’s followers that have been rewarded for loyalty to the party and to Buhari. “Mr President keeps records of loyalty and hard work and does not give appointment based on sycophancy,” he said. It would be recalled that as soon as Nwogu’s re-nomination by President Buhari was made public, oil producing communities in Abia State reportedly expressed relief that “the federal government has finally appointed a commissioner from the area to represent the state on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).” Trouble however started because Hon. Donatus Nwankpa, whose faction initially nominated to represent Abia State on the board, was rejected by the Senate on the ground that he is not from the oil producing area of the state as stipulated in the NDDC Act. So his loyalist are believed to be behind the youths that tried to protest Nwogu’s appointment since most of the top APC leaders in the state and recognised youth leaders have expressed satisfaction with the appointment. For example, the president of Ukwa Youth Initiative for Sustainable Development, Chinwe Uruakpa, was one of stakeholders that first responded to the appointment. He said “President Muhammadu Buhari has done the wishes of Asa land by appointing one of their own as NDDC commissioner representing Abia,” adding that Nwogu “has been working for the interest of APC in Ukwa West and Abia State in general.” Many other groups in Abia, like Coalition of All APC Youth Leaders, Ukwa West chapter, have also expressed satisfaction with the appointment. Speaking with newsmen in Umuahia, after a meeting of Youth Leaders of the party the Chairman, Hon. Obinna Ezere, thanked Buhari for the appointment and warned that youths in Abia APC will not tolerate any further steps from some sponsored elements to cause confusion in Abia State.  