Poised to reduce traffic gridlock across the state, the Lagos State Government will today meet with traders, commercial bus operators and others stakeholders. After the meeting, a seven-day abatement notice to traders, transporters and their unions in seven locations across the state, where traffic gridlock is due to trading and commercial transportation activities, will be issued. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Mr Olawale Musa said this at the sideline of a stakeholders meeting on traffic management. He represented Commissioner for Transportation, Frederic Abimbola Oladeinde at the event. Musa listed Ikorodu roundabout, Oyingbo, Yaba, Iyana-ipaja, Ketu, Ikotun and Ajah as the areas of major impediments. “In dealing with these identified locations, we will serve a seven-day abatement notice to all concerned locations effective after our meeting on Monday and thereafter prepare them (the stakeholders) for full enforcement of traffic laws and their attendant fines and penalties,” he said. Musa said the full force enforcement would commence at the expiration of the seven-day notice on October 18. According to him, 60 traffic gridlock locations have been identified by the state government. The state, he said, would not tolerate the disobedience of traffic law. He said the enforcement team would have its members drawn from road union members, traders across different locations, task force, Police, traffic management agencies and other stakeholders in the transport sector. He said: “The ultimate goal of the massive investments in transport sector by the state government has been geared toward ensuring free flow of traffic, road safety and socio-economic development. “Interestingly, in as much as all these plans and actions of the state government essentially indicate genuine concerns to address the perennial traffic problem in the state, it is important to admit that they have not been sufficient to entirely redress the situation. “In Lagos State, it is not uncommon to see vehicles illegally parked on either side of the road, some even drive in such a careless fashion that makes nonsense of traffic law  while others drive on or across the road medians, other human activities that complicate the traffic hassle in the state include; driving against traffic, making illegal U-turns, using reverse drive to cover long distance in order to beat traffic jam,  disobeying traffic lights and other traffic instructions, illegal trading activities  along our roads among others. “It is alarming to observe that many traders abandon their shops and display their goods on roads and drainage channels thereby compounding traffic situation in those locations.” Musa said the state government would soon implement the aspect of the traffic law which makes passengers a culprit in the violation of traffic law. He said that both the commercial bus driver and the passengers would be arrested and prosecuted if a bus drives against traffic. He said: “As a responsive government, it is not that we are not unaware of the fact that solving traffic problems in an emerging smart city like Lagos that houses two major ports, busiest international airports with concentration of largest numbers of oil tank farms is a herculean task but it is not insurmountable. “It is a task that will require the support, collaboration and cooperation of all the stakeholders by ensuring that you obey all traffic laws and regulations while you desist from any activity capable of undermining government efforts at improving the traffic situation; you must not drive on dedicated BRT corridors, you must not engage in one-way driving, you must respect and obey traffic lights, you must not display or sell goods on roads, medians and drainage channels. “As a government, we will remain committed to efficient traffic management and transportation system that will meet the need of the population of a fast growing smart city.”