The National Coordinator of True Nigerians for Buhari (TNB), Chief Ajayi Adekunle, has urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to live up to expectation to retain power beyond 2023. He advised the party leadership to find lasting solution to unemployment in the country. He said insecurity must be addressed by the government. According to him, if strong measures are not taken to secure the people, there will be no prosperity and governance. Adekunle said the surest way to secure the country was to empower the teeming population of youths. He said the TNB, which worked for the victory of President Buhari in the last election, was not taking these issues for granted. He said: “We are still committed to the ideals of the APC. We are still working for PMB. We are one support campaign group that believes it’s not enough to win the presidential election, but more importantly for him to be successful, that is why we are campaigning”, he stated. “The battle for party leadership position had been fought and won. We are now looking at the Nigerian masses. You build roads, you are not looking at who is in one party or the other, and it’s the generality of the masses. “When there is steady power supply, it’s for the masses. The APC government should do what it can to leave a foot print in the sands of time, so that we would say that when we were there, we really worked.” Noting that governance was not an easy business, Adekunle urged the ruling party to live up to expectation. “That’s why we want to still remain as a group to tell our leaders when they are erring, this is not what it should be, this is not what we promised the people”. “Your performance will make it easy for the next APC candidate. If you do not perform, we would be thrown out”, he restated. At the First Southwest Zonal meeting of the group, Adekunle assured that APC President Muhammadu Buhari would continue to serve the interest of all Nigerians. He said in a true democratic dispensation, tribe, language, religion or party membership are not barriers to the delivery of dividends of democracy to the grassroots. Adekunle, who is also a member of the Governing Council of the Agric Produce Kano State, and an appointee of the President, noted that the present administration was aware that there was so much work to be done and that’s why President Buhari had initiated programmes that would benefit the younger generation such as the N-Power, and the anchor borrowers’ programme. The N-Power is a social investment programme introduced by the federal government for job creation and empowerment initiatives. It is expected to help reduce unemployment by aiding them to create jobs and engaging them in activities while unemployed. While the anchor Programme is intended to create a linkage between anchor companies involved in the processing and small holder farmers (SHFs) of the required key agricultural commodities. 