Africa’s most preferred smartphone brand, Tecno, has unveiled another trendsetting device in the market. The device is the sixth generation of the brand’s camera-centric Camon Series and comes with a long list of added values and updates from its predecessors. The Camon 12 series comes in three sizes and colour variants – the Camon 12, Camon 12 Pro and Camon 12 Air. The colours are aqua blue, boudreaux red and midnight black. All these variants come in a nebula gradient inspired look – a design patterned after the starlight that reflects beautifully in light conditions making the device very attractive. Also, putting into consideration its 6.52 high definition (HD) Amoled Dot notch display and 7.88 thickness,  the device is very light and fits perfectly into the grip of  users. The Camon 12 comes with a 16 MP front camera flanked by a pair of dual flashlights to enable users take crystal clear selfies under lowlight situations – this a visible upgrade from its predecessor which spots a single flash light. Also, the focus on camera quality took a new dimension with the Camon 12. Tecno introduced a Triple AI Max Camera of 16+8+2 mega pixel (MP) which gives users the opportunity to take up to 120° super wide-angle shots – thus, with this device, capturing images of amazing landscape, cityscapes and indoor architecture has become stress-free. The 2 CM Macro photography feature included on the device makes it possible to take close-up shots without losing the smallest details on the object a user intends to capture. It also has the bokeh effect that helps users tackle background issues by placing a clearer focus to the object to be snapped as against the background. In terms of battery, the Camon 12 packs an irremovable 4000mAh battery with super-fast charge, and can stay on standby for 24 hours after a single charge. The device is powered by MediaTek’s Helio P22 chipset which makes possible Smart AI imaging, AI Camera, reliable connectivity and power efficiency – trust me, with all the power packed in the Camon 12, the device would not get hot while performing powerful functions due to this ‘new premium chipset which sells at a sweet price point.’ Another feature is the rear-mounted fingerprint scanner, Face ID unlock, PIN and pattern featured added to the device to help users maximise privacy. The Camon 12 sells for N47,500 at any authorised Tecno dealer store across the country. There is more. The purchase of Camon 12 comes with European raffle draw ticket.