Since the exit of former Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode from office months back, his deeds and some other activities during his tenure has continued to generate mixed reactions and controversies. It should be recalled that weeks ago, it was all over the media that the Epe home of the former Lagos state Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode was raided by the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes commission (EFCC). The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) reportedly raided Ambode’s two houses in Lagos on 20 August as part of its investigations into N9.9bn ($27.3m) discovered in three bank accounts linked to him. Akinwunmi Ambode who is currently being hunted down by the country’s anti-corruption commission, has also been summoned by the Lagos State House of Assembly to clarify some financial activities carried out during his administration. Here are the six things to know ahead of the Lagos State House of Assembly probe on Wednesday: 1. The Lagos state House of Assembly revealed in a recent advert about the five ‘sins’ allegedly committed by the former governor of the state, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode. 2. To clarify the whole issue and shed more light to the on-going investigations, the former governor is expected to appear before the Lagos state House of Assembly by 1pm on Wednesday. 3. It should be noted that this will be the second time the former governor will be summoned by the house. 4. Ambode was first summoned about weeks ago alongside former government officials, including the former commissioners for Finance, Economic Planning, Justice and Attorney General, and Permanent Secretary, Economic Planning. 5. The Speaker of the assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa constituted a 16-man ad-hoc committee under the chairmanship of Hon. Fatai Mojeed (Ibeju-Lekki I) to probe the procurement of 820 high occupancy vehicles, bought by the Ambode administration under its Bus Reform Initiative (BRI). 6. On Wednesday, Ambode will be requested to appear before the house to clarify the following: * Unauthorised discounting of promissory note * Purchase of 820 buses by his administration without due authorisation * Misappropriation of Special Expenditure Funds * Improper implementation of the Appropriation Law * Non-adherence to the Financial Regulations of the state.