The Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) has congratulated Lt. General Alani Akinrinade, who is 80 today. The group described him as “a military-democrat, and soldier of democracy and civil liberties. “The group noted that, Akinrinade was an ambassador of democracy in the military, who secured the Second Republic as the Chief of Defence Staff under President Shehu Shagari. It said he was never tempted to overthrow the civilian administration. ARG in a statement by its National Chairman, Wale Oshun, recalled how the fire of democracy burning in Akinrinade propelled him to participate in the activities of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), which fought for the restoration of democracy. Oshun described Akinrinade as a foremost patriot and nation-builder who from his youth had been fighting for the unity, stability and transformation of Nigeria. He said: “As a Yoruba, Afenifere is proud of having Akinrinade as one of our illustrious ambassadors to the Nigeria Project both as a serving soldier and as a front line statesman he is today.” He added: “Akinrinade is a beacon of integrity, an embodiment of the whole and ever shinning Yoruba culture and values which have continued to stand him out as first among equals, an achiever that both his juniors, peers and even seniors keep seeing as a mentor and as a model provoking them to higher heights. Every where he goes, everything he does and everything he says, he radiates and emits the salient, inherent and innate Yoruba Omoluwabi which appears to have made him almost faultless in everything.” Oshin commended the Osun State-born officer for his un-waiving commitment to the emancipation of the Yoruba nation and cultural values, especially his support to the Yoruba Academy and the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN). Akinrinade was born on October 3, 1939 in Yakoyo near Ile-Ife and schooled in Offa Grammar School, now in Kwara State before enlisting in the Nigerian Army in 1960.. He was at various times Ministers of Transport, Industries and Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Resources. Before he was appointed Chief of Defence Staff in 1980, he had served as the Chief of Army Staff.