•Extortion at roadblocks is a problem that must be dealt with ALLEGATIONS that some N306 billion has been extorted at checkpoints from citizens living in Nigeria’s south-east and south-south geopolitical zones over the past 50 months underscore the vital importance of ensuring that it is brought to an end. A civil rights group, the International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety), claims that the amount represents the estimated total of security shakedowns between August 2015 and October 2019 at about 6,300 police and 600 military checkpoints dispersed across the two regions. The figure updates the group’s December 2018 estimates of N100 billion allegedly extorted at checkpoints in the five states of the south-east. Intersociety’s report claims that N250 billion was taken at police checkpoints while N56 billion was extorted at military-run checkpoints. The civil rights group does not offer a methodology of how it arrived at this figure. It does not state why it chose to begin its investigations at August 2015, since checkpoint extortion obviously did not commence on that date. Nor does it explain why it chose to limit  itself to two out of the country’s six geopolitical zones, as if they are the only areas to experience the phenomenon. In spite of this, however, the report’s implications are grave. For once, an attempt has been made to put a figure on a despicable practice that has become a deeply troubling fact of contemporary Nigerian life. By putting checkpoint extortion into actual figures, Intersociety has helped to crystallise the extent and depth of a criminal activity that has crippled the country’s attempts to come to grip with its extensive security challenges. The report comes in the wake of other similarly damning investigations into the activities of the country’s security forces. In August 2010, Human Rights Watch (HRW) published “Everyone’s in on the Game: Corruption and Human Rights Abuses by the Nigeria Police Force,” in which it detailed the corruption, abuse and impunity which have come to dominate police procedure. In June 2015, Amnesty International published “Stars on their Shoulders, Blood on their Hands: War Crimes Committed by the Nigerian Military,” alleging the extra-judicial murder of an estimated 7,000 men and boys in the campaign against Boko Haram, and the unlawful killing of a further 1,200. Military and police extortion at checkpoints are a perversion of the aims of security operations. Instead of carrying out their supposed functions of deterrence, monitoring and rapid response, these checkpoints actually serve to facilitate the perpetration of bribery, extortion and the associated human rights abuses that accompany them. The tragic irony of this situation is that state governments in the two regions have pumped huge resources into military and police formations in an effort to increase security. They have bought vehicles, supplied equipment, installed closed-circuit television systems, and launched new security initiatives. To have their citizens further subjected to blatant extortion on top of this is truly disheartening. The readiness of security forces deployed in the south-east and the south-south to behave like an army of occupation is not unrelated to the Buhari administration’s lamentable heavy-handedness in addressing security issues in these regions.  The array of ominously-named security operations ongoing in both geopolitical zones stand in stark contrast to the absence of similar initiatives against militant herdsmen in the nation’s middle belt and elsewhere. Citizens in the south-east and the south-south are thus left with an unenviable choice: that of succumbing to the extortion and maltreatment of those supposedly sent to secure them, or remaining vulnerable to the malevolent forces that threaten them. If this situation is to be comprehensively resolved, it must be treated with the utmost seriousness by the military and police hierarchy, as well as by the Federal Government. If indeed the rate of extortion is as widespread as Intersociety claims, there should be substantial evidence supporting their allegations. It must be gathered and offending soldiers and police officers disciplined according to laid-down regulations, not only in the regions but across the nation because the problem is a national one.