Our Reporter Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Ogun State in the last general elections, Senator Buruji Kashamu, has said he is delighted at the Buhari administration’s efforts to bring succour to ordinary Nigerians by freeing local governments from governors who have castrated them. Kashamu, who spoke in an interview, said President Muhammadu Buhari meant well for the country. He said: “It is an open secret in Nigeria that governors had castrated the local governments by depriving them access to their statutory funds. This has turned into a serious economic strangulation at the grassroots, which prompted me into making the declaration during my electioneering that I will never touch local government funds if elected as governor. “I salute President Buhari for having the rare political courage and patriotism to save the Nigerian masses through the NFIU monitoring of local government funds.  I strongly believe that sooner than later the people will feel the impact of this initiative.” Kashamu also said he had not abandoned the PDP, explaining that there must be an end to campaign and for governance to thrive. “After an election, any genuine political gladiator must partner with the government for the development of the society and the advancement of its people. That is why I am in politics. It is about my people’s welfare and certainly not out of want of what to do,” he said. On what he does now, he said: “A lot has been happening. As you are aware, I am an entrepreneur and an employer of labour. I have been in business for decades before I ventured into active politics about a decade ago. So, after my stint at the Senate, I simply returned to my businesses of cotton ginnery, hospitality, real estate and entertainment.” Kashamu said he went into the election expecting victory, adding: “Nobody will reasonably commit so much into a cause like I did with the intention of losing. My participation in the election was more of a struggle against impunity, injustice and the overbearing attitude of some of our political actors.