Osun State Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, on Thursday warned the newly-inaugurated members of his Executive Council to shun acts capable of undermining the corporate integrity of the government and the state. The governor also warned that his administration would not tolerate corruption, maintaining that he would not hesitate to wield the big stick where necessary against any official found wanting. The governor, who spoke after the swearing-in ceremony and oath-taking by the  commissioners and special advisers at the State Secretariat in Osogbo, the state capital, advised the 35-member Executive Couhcil to do away with frivolities and work as one formidable and impenetrable team. He also advised them to be bound together by the sole objectuve of delivering on the Developmental Agenda of his administration. Oyetola called on them to see their appointment as clarion call to serve humanity and support the administration to uplift the state.  He said: “Our Administration is a product of God’s Promise, the benevolence of the people and our Mandate. The Almighty God and the people have delivered their own part. The ball is now in our court to deliver on our promise. As heads of ministries, you are our delivery channel. I charge you to harness the available human and material resources to fulfill our bond to the people. “This administration has zero tolerance for corruption and opacity. We shall, therefore, not hesitate to wield the big stick where necessary. “Ensure that you discharge every duty with utmost probity, accountability and transparency as these are the elements that will deliver stellar service in the face of extant limited resources and earn the trust of the people.” The governor also said cabinet members would be assessed from time to time for optimum performance. Speaking on behalf of the newly-inaugurated exco members, the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, lauded the governor for the confidence reposed in them to serve the state. She assured the governor  that the people would get diligent service. “We will not disappoint you. We will put in our very best to support the administration and uplift the standard of living of the people of the state.  We shall take to the lessons garnered at the retreat to effect positive change across sectors,” she added. The Deputy Chief of Staff in-charge of General Administration, Mr.Adejare Adebisi, implored all members of the exco to see their appointment as a privilege to impact meaningfully on the lives of the people of the state. The governor announced portfolios of the members. At the occasion were the Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi; the First Lady, Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola; the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Timothy Owoeye; Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Gboyega Famodun and the state’s Accountant-General, Mr. Sunday Igbaroola. Others were traditional rulers, including the Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi and the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun, among others.