El-Rufai, the son, arriving a public school, provokes a storm. El-Rufai, the father, faces the resultant blitz, of praise or blame. It’s the making of El-Rufai and f(r)iends! The governor may have bucked a sickly trend — of the Nigerian ruling elite keeping own children off the leprous public schools they run. That ought to come with some well-earned praise — for the governor’s action is welcome pinch, on the conscience (or lack of it) of his ruling peers. Yet, reaction has focused less on the action per se — noble, if you ask Ripples.  El-Rufai’s fiends would rather raze him for their perceived colour of his politics; and their sworn evil of his motive. It’s all perfectly contemporary Nigerian: it’s not enough to do good or evil.  What matters is the perception of friend and foe.  Donald Trump’s alternative facts syndrome is finding safe local anchor. Strictly, it’s ugly to fair-minded eyes.  Facts are nothing. Bias is everything.  It’s the paramountcy of shadow over substance. Yes, it’s true: Nasir El-Rufai, governor of Kaduna State, does not suffer fools gladly, as the Brits say, of that clinical putdown. Some say that is because he has a sharp, acute, piercing mind that is rather impatient with those who waffle and dodder, no thanks to a wobbling and blunt mind. Others spurn that as crap.  El-Rufai, they insist, is just a brat with zero emotional intelligence. That dire challenge, they add, clothes him with combative and arrogant pride.  So, he holds others — particularly those who disagree with him — in contempt. He may indeed be brilliant — they reluctantly concede his razor-sharp mind — but it’s brilliance without humility or charity, which is a waste, they jeer in final triumph! Indeed, if you have read El-Rufai’s The Accidental Public Servant, you would marvel at his self-projection as clinical and severe, battling against all environmental odds to do good!   You then wondered if blood flowed in his veins! Now, was this a mind courting controversy as a political weapon?  Or just a single-minded dynamo determined to do his bit, whether anyone liked it or not? So, when the news hit the waves, that El-Rufai just enrolled his son Abubakar, 6, to start primary one in a public school, Capital School, Malali, in Kaduna, with the camera in tow, all hell simply broke loose, among friends and foes! In all the hullabaloo, however, some salient points got conveniently glossed over. To start with, the entry age into public primary schools.  To many parents today, it’s infra dig to enrol a six-year old — too old for primary one, they would bawl! — even if that is the entry prescription; just as a holiday is inconceivable without the so-called “summer classes.” The all-knowing, all-busy adults have decreed childhood and its sweet pleasures out of their children; the career-pushing parents have expunged play, fun and spark from their kids’ holidays! Therefore, it is rather refreshing that a governor, in 21st century Nigeria with all its empty conceits and grand pretences, is using his own blood to reiterate this sanity. Yes, little Abubakar is a product of some elite pre-primary schooling.  But that his father isn’t leveraging that for a higher class would appear total, solemn submission to the rules.  That is a leadership model that should excite everyone. Then, the inviolability of promises, by public servants. For whatever reason, the governor made a solemn promise: when his son turned six, whether he was still governor or not, he would enrol him in a public primary school. Everyone moved on. Not a few forgot. Most probably would not have remembered, had the governor played dumb, and allowed his promise to quietly slide. But should anyone dare remind him, to walk his talk, he would probably have put out some cant. But again, El-Rufai remembered — and kept his word.  That ought to earn due praise.  Leaders’ words ought to be their bond. Indeed, Olusegun Obasanjo always brags: my  word is my bond.  Let’s just say, El Rufai has just acted that, with little or no fuss — though the cameras were in tow, which seem to have enraged not a few! Obasanjo!  That name echoes the many battles of El Rufai in the public space, birthing a hardy and controversial public figure, more feared than loved! In The Accidental Public Servant, El-Rufai’s Obasanjo years ministerial memoirs — and a high-flying and very visible minister at that — the future governor gave his president the short-shrift: Obasanjo’s denial, of an attempt at an illegal “third term”, was a fib! “No third term – no Nigeria”, he quoted the president to have bragged inside Aso Rock, in February 2006.  Raising that “smoking gun”, El-Rufai declared, with utter irreverence, the president had tumbled, from the high pedestal he once held him! Not a few thought that was harsh — and brash.  Others felt it was plain ingratitude — to a president that offered El-Rufai the world.  Yet others craved more grace, no matter what. But an unfazed El-Rufai won’t waffle: it’s honour or nothing! Your word ought to be your bond! In another high-octane war, a Pentecostal cleric, the Edo-based Johnson Suleman, once crossed swords with El-Rufai, over some religious edict, in Kaduna State. When the push came to the shove, the pastor threatened a pastoral fatwa — a holy curse that threatened the governor with near-instant death!  It was a new low in ecclesiastical rascality! But it was the pastor that ate crow.  El-Rufai has not only lived, he had gone on to claim a second term!  But the man of God, it was, hobbled and humbled by a scandal!  See how the holy stumble? Of course, “second term” reminds you of Shehu Sani, the former Kaduna Central senator that also rumbled with the governor — but lost out on second term (replaced by another Uba Sani), even after the ruling party tried a stalled cohabitation.  El-Rufai could prove a formidable, unforgiving adversary! Poor Shehu Sani!  He has been apoplectic, since the El-Rufai-son-goes-to-school story broke; spinning tales of alleged deceit; of how the governor allegedly spent “N195 million on a particular school … take your son and the media to that school and think you have done anything different.” Sani went on Kaduna’s gubernatorial binge of worthier governors: a Balarabe Musa that shunned Government House, during his short governorship in the 2nd Republic; and an Ahmed Markarfi, whose children, he claimed, also attended that same school, without Markarfi bringing down the media roof!  Nasir’s was all comical stunt for 2023, see? But as poor Sani fumed, it was clear who stole the thunder; and who harvested the anger!  A grape never tasted so sour!  El-Rufai and fiends! Indeed, El-Rufai is as controversial — and combative —  as they come.  He especially loves to shut up the hyper-educated southern loud mouths, who sadistically glory the North is dumb; so it ought to listen, while they thunder! Nor does he necessarily hide the political Machiavelli in him.  He once rued the North as comparable human development laggard; but also relished its blind advantage as captive voting bloc, warts and all! Yet, on this one, El-Rufai has earned due and legitimate praise.  If every governor takes his cue, and enrol their children in public schools — primary, secondary and tertiary  — there would be added vim to fix crumbling public education.