Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited (SIPML), a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, has announced its plan to sponsor this year’s Art X Lagos. SIPML is sponsoring Art X Modern, a new section dedicated to celebrating pioneers of African modern art from the 20th century. Art X Modern will comprise three galleries: Bloom Art and Mydrim Gallery, which are Nigerian, and Gallery 1957 from Ghana. It will feature Uche Okeke and Obiora Udechukwu as well as Prof. Ablade Glover from Ghana, among others. SIPML will host a public talk. Stanbic IBTC Pensions Chief Executive Mr. Eric Fajemisin said the company is committed to promoting the art sector. He said: “Our interest in promoting arts is hinged on the belief that creativity and intellect can serve as sources of livelihood for individuals who decide to make a career out of their passion for painting and drawing. In other climes, art is cherished, and patrons sometimes pay a fortune for works of art that are considered collectors’ items. We want to promote a culture which ensures that artists are appreciated for their ingenuity and adequately rewarded with the premium and royalties that their works attract.” Fajemisin added that the company decided to host the Art X Modern section to ensure that artists get the recognition due them during their lifetime. “Being Nigeria’s largest pensions manager, we have the responsibility to ensure that our customers retire well, so that they have something to fall back on post work-life. We are also promoting that principle which holds that those who contribute actively to enriching lives and enhancing our creative industry get their due, even after leaving active work life.” This year’s edition of Art X Lagos will hold at Federal Palace Hotel from Friday, November 1 to Sunday, November 3, 2019. This year’s Art Festival will feature 23 gallery booths including Nigerian gallery exhibitors such as: The Space, Bloom Art, Nike Art Gallery, Retro Africa and SMO Contemporary, among others. The roll call of artists who will showcase their art includes: Abe Odedina (Nigeria / UK / Brazil), Soly Cissé (Senegal), Sam Nhlengethwa (South Africa), Tizta Berhanu (Ethiopia), Peju Alatise (Nigeria) and Lady Skollie (South Africa). ART X Lagos is West Africa’s first international art fair, designed to showcase intriguing and innovative contemporary art from the African continent and diaspora.  