Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers on Thursday morning stormed a boarding secondary school in Kaduna, taking away six female students and two staffers of the school. The private boarding secondary school known as, Engravers College, is in a Kakau Daji village of Chikun local government area, a metropolitan L.G.A. Kaduna State Police Command has confirmed the incident, saying that, teams of Anti-kidnapping, SARS, and conventional police have been deployed for possible rescue of the victims. According to the PPRO, “The Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo who confirmed the kidnap in a statement Thursday afternoon said, IGP’s Intelligent Respond team (IRT) has equally been contacted for technical support. “The Command received an information through DPO Tall Gate, in the early hours of today 03/10/2019 at about 0310hrs that, some armed men gained entry into the Engravers College, a Boarding secondary school in a remote area near Kakau Daji village in Chikun L.G.A and took away two staff of the college and six (6) female students to unknown destination. “On receipt of that information, the Command immediately mobilized combined teams of Anti-kidnapping, SARS, and conventional police to the area for possible rescue of the victims and arresting the perpetrators of the unfortunate incident. “IGP’s Intelligent Respond team (IRT) has been contacted for technical support. “The Command therefore, is using this opportunity to reiterate its call on all the private school proprietors within the State to liaise with their nearest Police formation and promptly report incidents or suspicious persons around schools to forestall future occurrence of ugly incidents. “On this note, the Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command, CP Ali Aji Janga pcs is assuring the general public that, the Command is doing everything possible to secure the release of all the victims unhurt. “He equally called on the good people of the State not to relent in giving the Police prompt and useful information at all times.” He said.