AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna  IN justification of the ongoing partial border closure, the Nigerian Customs Service said it has arrested one illegal immigrant attempting to enter Nigeria with a pistol. It also said it has in the last few days arrested 146 other illegal migrants and also seized 18,759 bags of foreign rice along the borders. The Customs which said some of the illegal migrants were coming into the country to cause havoc by engaging in criminal activities such as arm banditry, kidnapping among others, said one of the illegal immigrants was caught with a pistol. National Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the service, Deputy Controller Joseph Attah disclosed these during a sensitisation engagement with rice farmers and other stakeholders in the Kaduna. Attah stated emphatically that the partial border closure was aimed at ensuring that dangerous items don’t come into the country and not meant to create hardship for Nigerians. He said, “We arrested 146 illegal migrants within a period of one month. Imagine if just 46 out of the 146 arrested were coming into the country with the mindset to create havoc, to kidnapp, for armed robbery, to snatch vehicles. You can imagine the positive effect this action has already brought to Nigeria. “We also arrested an illegal immigrant with a pistol. What is he coming into the country to do with a pistol if not to commit crime. “We also seized 18,759 50Kg bags of rice, arrested 131 bags of NPK fertiliser which can be used to make explosives. We intercepted 50 cartridges. We also intercepted 4,765 jericans of vegetable oil and also stopped two tankers loaded with PMS about to be smuggled out of the country.” He said. He also added that, there is need for Nigerians to stop encouraging Asian rice farmers by only patronising local farmers so that they can also growth which will help promote the economy of this country. In his remarks, the Secretary of  Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Ishaya. G. Audu commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the decision to close the borders and for providing job opportunities for local farmers in the country.   