As part of efforts to ensure that pupils of Ewutuntun Senior Grammar School, Oshodi, Lagos have unfettered access to learning, the school’s Class of 93 recently donated 30 sets of classroom furniture to the senior arm of the school. Presenting the chairs and desks last Tuesday, the association’s President, Dr Edino Ezekiel, noted that the gesture was to give back to the school which moulded them, to ensure it continues to rank among the best schools around. “We are giving back to the school because the school made us what we are today.  This is our root, and we will make sure it does not suffer even if it is being neglected by government in some areas. “We know government cannot do everything, that is why we are striving to make the school a standard institution that can compete with any private school,” he said. While promising to extend the gesture to the junior arm, Ezekiel said the association was formed to support the school in all aspects, noting that they had donated computers, printers, built a borehole and even sponsored some students to leadership programmes. Other members of the Class of 93 in attendance included Calistus Nzeh (Chairman Board of Trustees), and Fatai Sanni (Head boy 93 set). In her speech, principal of the school, Mrs Grace Oderinde, thanked the alumni for their continuous support and goodwill towards the school generally. On his part, the outgoing Principal, Mr Ayo Afolayan, praised them for the donation, adding that the school had lost chairs and tables to a fire incident. He said: “I thank the 93 set for their various donations to the school. This is not the first time they would be donating to us. Now, they are giving us new sets of furniture to replace the burnt ones.” Also, Sanni, Headboy of the 93 set, noted that the alumni would continue to work to ensure the development of the school.  He urged the pupils to study hard, noting that the association would institute sessional awards to encourage exceptional ones among them. Victor Oyebode, popularly known as Boy Alinco, who was invited by the old students for the event, urged the pupils to be good citizens who would change the face of the country. He advised them to be hardworking and choose a legacy that would make them distinct. The school’s Acting Head boy, Philip Akapo, thanked the alumni for their intervention. He said  inadequate furniture had been a major challenge in the school.