PROPERTY owners and residents from Igbogbo/Bayeku in Ikorodu, Lagos State whose buildings were demolished in December 2017 by the administration of former governor Akinwunmi Ambode, on Monday protested at Alausa, Ikeja seat of government, demanding for compensation. Pa Jacob Arogundade and Taiwo Folarin led the protesters. Arogundade said of the 700 properties destroyed, including churches and mosques, only 96 people were paid compensation in 2018 by the Ambode administration while other property owners were yet to be compensated. He said, “The last administration only paid compensation for about 10 per cent of the houses and shops demolished and left the remaining 90 per cent suffering for about two years now. “We are appealing to our listening governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu to look into the issue of payment to us the poor and forgotten people of Igbogbo community whose properties were demolished by the last administration in the state in a haste”. He said homes and families have been separated, education of children adversely affected and many now living in churches, mosques, schools and uncompleted buildings for almost two years now. “The most pathetic of all are the aged ones, we mean people that are 80 years and above who rely on rents from those demolished shops and rooms for their living, a source which has been taken away from them without notice,” Arogundade said. According to a letter addressed to the governor, the group said they had been promised compensation immediately the new administration came on board and they fulfilled their own side by voting massively for the new governor, but that it is surprising that more than 100 days after assuming office nothing has been done. “Your Excellency, we have all seen the list of compensation with our names publicly displayed in room 22 of the Ministry of Lands and also in the accounts office room 35 ready for payment but waiting for your approval”. They appealed to the governor “in the name of Almighty God to have mercy on us and approve payment so that we the people of Igbogbo and other Lagosians will continue to pray for you and your government…”, they stated. Responding on behalf of the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Tobun Abiodun commended them for the peaceful protest but appealed to them to be calm and patient as the matter would be looked into at plenary by the House.