Dupe Ayinla-Olasunkanmi  Sola Sobowale and Adesua Etomi  emerged winners for the movie, King Of Boys, a Nigerian political thriller film written, co-produced and directed by Kemi Adetiba at the 15th Africa Movie Academy Awards, which held last Sunday at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. While Sobowale won the ‘Best Actress in Lead Role’, Adesua Etomi went home as ‘Best actress in a Supporting Role’. In the movie, Sobowale was the mother of drug lords, while Etomi acted as her cold-hearted daughter. Actress and producer, Kemi Lala Akindoju, Lorenzo Menakaya and comedian, Funnybone were hosts of the event. Adetiba, who was far away in Amsterdam while the award took place, took to her Instagram to share in the success of the movie. “Before I go on, let me tell you a quick story. This time last year, we released @kingofboysmovie in the cinemas… And the rest is history,” she said. “Lol, No. It didn’t quite happen like that If only true stories could be summed up in “happily ever after”. The truth is,  October 26, 2018 was supposed to be our release date for KOB. We were dealing with insane tech issues that forced me to release a statement apologising that we would not be releasing that day. “It was one of the lowest moments of my life and I felt I failed everyone that had dedicated their time to this film or believed in me to execute this “dream”. In fact, we actually did not fully get into all Nigerian cinemas till the next weekend because of this delay. “This is easily Film suicide, if you understand how these things work. I was already getting the “no matter what happens Kemi, you did your best” sympathetic messages as it would be right to think this delay will serve us a brick in the box office. But with all our hiccups and hang ups, and putting a three hour movie in the cinemas… You guys delivered a N245m box office hit!!! So these awards belong to us!!! We are going to share it together. Whenever you see a picture of the AMAA award or an announcement of it online, comment under with “Yes… we won!!!” I give you every permission to do so because you all made this happen. But you can’t keep the physical award OHHH. That’s where I draw the line. “I love you guys thank you for this. Thank you to the AMAA organisers for a stellar event. We are truly honored. I unfortunately am in Amsterdam working, so couldn’t make it, but my people came in full force and I could feel the spirit from here. So, on the anniversary of KOB’s One Year cinema “release” I would like to dedicate this award to everyone  that starred in the film, worked on the film, watched the film, spoke of the film or even typed the words King Of Boys anywhere in the last couple years. Thank you all for making this movie what it is today,” she added. The AMA Awards are presented annually to recognise excellence among professionals who have contributed to the African film industry. It was founded by Peace Anyiam-Osigwe and is run through the Africa Film Academy.