•Gen Akinrinade, at 80, is worthy of a nation’s gratitude He has seen it all, wartime and peacetime, politics and governance, scoundrels and heroes, heroics and villainy. He has since the 1960’s stood on the side of nobility. He staked his honour and energies not only as a soldier but what scholars call an Aristotelian man of affairs. Today at 80, it is without controversy that we call General Ipoola Alani Akinrinade not only an officer and gentleman, but also a patriot of the first rank. When he joined the army in the 1960’s, he expected to restrict himself to the unobtrusive glamour of a man of uniform. Soldiers like him marched into the battlefield because a civil war erupted. A 30-month fratricidal blood boil that ensued claimed many citizens on both sides. Nigeria became a model of underdevelopment with starvation, butchery and hate being the narrative of a young nation. Akinrinade as major and lieutenant-colonel served in the army, and independent stories showed him a loyal officer in the service of a nation. He never hated the Biafrans while fighting for the collective soul of a nation he signed up as a soldier to serve. The story is told in a book, A Tragedy of Victory by General Alabi Isama, in which rather than merely shooting down a Biafran officer who took to his heels through the marsh and bushes of the Niger Delta region, the then Major Akinrinade sprinted after him, in spite of a risk of being gunned down by a Biafran straggler, and personally caught the soldier and arrested him. The man, according to accounts, became his friend even after the end of hostilities. He was at the head of negotiations in the febrile intrigues of battle to secure the surrender of the Biafran forces while the head of the Third Division, or the Third Marine Commando, then Colonel Olusegun Obasanjo, was on a wild goose chase in Biafra. Akinrinade was then a lieutenant-colonel. He served as a soldier and officer of the Nigerian Army after the war, and rose to become chief of defence staff after a short stint as chief of army staff. He was also a general officer commanding of the first division. As an officer, he left the army as lieutenant-general. Since Nigeria was under military rule, he served as minister in a number of portfolios, including agriculture, water resources and rural development (1985- 1986), industries (1988 -1989) and transport (1989). During the 1976 attempted coup that cost us the life of the head of state, General Murtala Muhammed, he set up a military watch around the hideout of General Obasanjo, who was billed to take over as head of state. He did that of his own volition to protect his boss from any murderous mischief by irredentist soldiers. Obasanjo eventually ascended the post of head of state. His patriotism burst open when he set his face against his military peers by joining the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) after the Ibrahim Babangida regime annulled the historic June 12 election of 1993. It was a career suicide of sorts. He did it by rising above insular loyalty to embrace democratic ideals. He had evolved as a soldier into a republican virtue. He put his life and resources into it, and joined those fighters who left the country for sanctuary outside. His home was attacked with a bomb he was fortunate to survive but lost valuables, including documents about his soldiery. Gen. Akinrinade is a soldier’s soldier, and his service and wisdom will continue to illuminate the country for years to come.