•New ministry could facilitate the emergence of a welfare state ONE of the more significant aspects of President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 Independence Day anniversary speech was his announcement that the Federal Government’s National Special Intervention Programmes (NSIPs) will be moved to the newly-created Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. For an administration that has been widely criticised for a perceived lack of tactical flexibility and its glacial pace of policy implementation, the importance of this measure cannot be overstated. For the first time in Nigeria’s history, a purpose-built ministry now exists to address the vexed issues of social welfare, disaster relief and human development. There can be little doubt that the country is in dire need of such a ministry, given the depth, pervasiveness and complexity of the problems confronting it. Over a decade of militancy, insurgency, communal clashes and environmental disasters have created 1.8 million internally-displaced people (IDPs). Unemployment rates of 23.1 per cent, with over 30 per cent joblessness among the youth, have led to a toxic mix of increased crime, rising levels of violence and growing social distress. The new ministry could help to tackle this crisis by doing three things: properly coordinating the government response to disasters; ensuring that its various social welfare programmes complement and reinforce one another; effectively liaising with other ministries, agencies, parastatals and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) so that their efforts have maximum impact. In practical terms, this means that the ministry must ensure that its humanitarian and disaster relief programmes are more efficient and result-oriented than they are at present. Now that they have been incorporated into a single ministry, it should be possible to reduce redundancy, stem corruption and tackle waste. Similar goals must be set for the NSIPs, including the Social Housing, N-Power, Conditional Cash Transfers, National Home-Grown School Feeding, and Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programmes. However, the creation of a new ministry is only the first step in a long and difficult process. If it is to achieve its objectives, it is vital that its functions are clearly spelt out, properly defined, and comprehensively structured, with key performance indicators delineated by timelines and deadlines. The new ministry is all the more vital given the N500 billion proposed by the Federal Government for its social intervention programmes in the 2019 budget. This is by far the largest service-wide allocation in the budget, and now that it has been consolidated into a single ministry, it is crucial that these funds are managed transparently and competently. The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development must not become another cesspool of rampant corruption and blatant impunity. In spite of the criticism levelled at it, the Buhari administration is noteworthy for its laudable focus on social intervention programmes. It has expanded the school-feeding programme into a national project that has reached some 8.7 million children. Its Conditional Cash Transfer Programme gives N5,000 monthly to 297,973 households. N-Power has employed 500,000 youth graduates in education, health and agriculture. If they are sustained, these programmes can coalesce into the foundation of a viable welfare state in which the most vulnerable citizens are offered a safety net that enables them to live with purpose and dignity. The creation of the new ministry is the logical outcome of the Federal Government’s emphasis on succouring its poorest citizens. In this regard, it is surprising that these efforts do not seem to have received the publicity they so richly deserve. While government cannot be immune to criticism, it is well within its rights to trumpet its achievements, especially those in social intervention. The new ministry could resolve this anomaly by accelerating the institutionalisation of the National Social Intervention Programmes. In the hands of a capable minister and committed civil servants, they will become as well-known and as beneficial as the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme, which, in spite of its imperfections, remains a veritable tool for fostering national unity. We hope too that the new ministry will continue with the enthusiasm with which Vice President Yemi Osinbajo handled the social intervention programmes.