Vice Chancellor, University of Calabar Prof Zana Akpagu, has identified education as a veritable tool for national development. Akpagu said no country can achieve meaningful development without investing in education. Akpagu stated this at the institution’s Senate Chamber during the ninth annual conference of the Faculty of Education. It had: Inclusive education, entrepreneurship and national development, as the theme. According to him, no country can attain real national development without emphasis on formal and informal education. Akpagu underscored the need for the citizenry to be educated and trained in entrepreneurial skills to enable them become employers of labour through job creation. “The citizenry needs to be educated for skills development through concerted efforts on entrepreneurship to create wealth and instill balanced development amongst young entrepreneurs,” said Akpagu who was represented by Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academic), Prof Uche Amalu. He described the theme of the conference as apt. Akpagu, who also underscored the place of research in the development of any institution, added that any institution that fails in that direction cannot function effectively. In his welcome address, the Dean of the Faculty of Education, Prof Simon Akpama, said the faculty’s determination is to sustain sacred academic tradition in a knowledge-driven economy in tandem with global best practices. Akpama urged participants to dissect the theme and also emphasise the synergy between inclusive education and entrepreneurship to midwife national development. Also speaking, former vice chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Prof Chigozie Asiabaka, described inclusive education as the fundamental principle that children must learn together. Asiabaka, who was also the keynote speaker, spoke on the topic: ‘Inclusive education, entrepreneurship and national development.’ He explained that inclusive education has also evolved with different nomenclatures such as normalisation, mainstreaming and integration. Asiabaka stated that inclusive education focuses on supporting all learners, educators and the system to address the full range of learning needs. He enumerated benefits of inclusive education to include: creating opportunities for children with varying abilities when motivated; encouraging involvement of parents in the education of their children; fostering a culture of respect; and providing for all children opportunities to develop friendships with one another. Asiabaka stressed that inclusive education focuses on providing education for all, irrespective of inabilities, adding that education can be formal or informal. He also said inclusive education provides equal opportunities for learners irrespective of handicapping condition or severity. Similarly, Prof. Samuel Killian Bassey from Cross River State University of Technology, said equipping learners in an inclusive education system with self-employable skills can ginger national development. The conference also featured presentation by special education students.