All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole has promised not to exchange altercations with the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, in the media. Oshiomhole, who made the promise while addressing reporters in Abuja, also faulted those who had been attacking President Muhammadu Buhari for his trips abroad. The APC stalwart recalled that the most travelled Nigerian President is Olusegun Obasanjo. The party leader was responding to questions from reporters on a recent comment attributed to Professor Sagay. Oshiomhole said he had so much respect for the Professor of Law, whom he described as an elder statesman, adding that he would prefer to speak to him in person and get to know what his grouse about him was about. Professor Sagay was reported to have said Oshiomhole’s hard stance was causing the APC to lose ground and that more might be lost if he refused to change his combative approach. “All I can tell you is that I have a lot of respect for Professor Itse Sagay. I do remember very well that he was one of those who said I should contest for President. I respect him; he’s a very consistent fellow. He believes in what he believes in and he pays the price for it. “So, I have a lot of respect for him. If he has said those things, I’m not going to reply him through the newspapers. I will find out what he said. Then, I will call him and know what the issues are, what he’s not comfortable with. He is my brother and my elder statesman,” Oshiomhole said. On the criticism of President Buhari over his trips abroad, the APC National Chairman said: “If you check through your newspapers and play back some of your electronic coverages, you will find where Gani Fawehinmi (of blessed memory) took time to calculate the number of days President Obasanjo was out of Nigeria, visiting foreign countries. “He even tried to calculate the number of hours he was spending in air, compared to the number of hours he was spending on Nigeria’s soil. So, how can you …suggest that President Buhari travels more often than other persons? That is not correct.”