If the government’s desire is to reduce carnage on the roads, the argument about who has the mandate to regulate drivers’ licence is needless and avoidable, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Road safety experts have carpeted as needless, the query on the Federal Roads Safety Commission’s (FRSC) power to regulate the training of drivers or the issuance of drivers licence. The Chairman, Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NIIT) Zaria, Olorogun John Onojeharho in the Punch last Friday, had queried the FRSC’s right to issue licences. He alleged that it operates quack driving schools to train drivers. But the agency said the FRSC Establishment Act 2007 as amended, gave it the statutory right to train and certify drivers. Its spokesman Bisi Kazeem, debunking the “erroneous insinuation,” at the weekend, said drivers’ certification is part of the FRSC’s responsibility. “Our responsibility is to ensure that drivers, motorists, and motorcyclists education are trained on how to operate their vehicles before they apply for the National Drivers Licence,” he said. He said FRSC has no driving school but certifies privately run driving schools to ensure compliance to standards. He said FRSC derives its mandate from Section 10 (3)c of the FRSC Establishment Act 2007: “To educate drivers, motorists and members of the public generally on the proper use of the highways.” Put in broader perspective, according to Kazeem,”education and training are interchangeable where learning or education is synonymous with training, which means a process by which someone is taught a skill that is needed for an art, profession, or job.” According to him, the FRSC, as the agency charged with the safety of lives and property on the roads has not only been educating fleet operators on the minimum safety standards, it has continued to regulate the establishment and certification of driving schools that are registered to train drivers on the operation of vehicles and the proper use of roads. The beginning Prior to 1988, the Federal Government had no concrete or sustained policy to address the carnage on  the roads. Earlier attempts to manage carnage on the roads were limited to isolated attempts by some states of the federation and institutions. One of the earliest pioneers of road safety initiative, according to Wikipedia, was the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) between 1960 and 1965. Following on its heels, was the Nigerian Army’s Annual Road Safety Week which started in 1972. The National Road Safety Commission (NRSC), established in 1974, was the Federal Military Government’s first real attempt at promoting road safety. It was however short lived. In 1977, the military administration in old Oyo State, established the Oyo State Road Safety Corps (OSRSC), which instilled some road discipline and achieved significant improvements in road safety in the state. The Corps was disbanded by the military government in 1983. In February 1988, the Federal Government established the Federal Road Safety Commission through Decree No. 45 of the 1988 as amended by Decree 35 of 1992, referred to in the statute books as the FRSC Act cap 141 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (LFN), passed by the National Assembly as Federal Road Safety Corps (establishment) Act 2007. It has, among other statutory functions, the duty of making the highway safe for motorists and other road users, eliminate or minimise accidents on the highways and advising the Federal and state governments, including the Federal Capital Territory Administration and relevant governmental agencies on the localities where such works and devices are required, and educating motorists and members of the public on the importance of discipline on the highway. Its other responsibilities are: Clearing obstructions on any part of the highways, educating drivers, motorists and other members of the public on the proper use of the highways, designing and producing the driver’s license to be used by various categories of vehicle operators, determining, from time to time, the requirements to be satisfied by an applicant for a driver’s licence and designing and producing vehicle number plates. It is also mandated to standardise highway traffic codes, educate drivers, motorists and other members of the public generally on the proper use of the highways,  give prompt care and attention to victims of accidents and conducting researches into causes of motor accidents and methods of preventing them and putting into use the result of such research. The FRSC is also to determine and enforce speed limits for all categories of roads and vehicles and controlling the use of speed limiting devices, cooperate with bodies or agencies or groups in road safety activities or in prevention of accidents on the highways, making regulations in pursuance of any of the functions assigned to the Corps, regulate the use of sirens, flashers and beacon lights on vehicles other than ambulances and vehicles belonging to the Armed Forces, Nigeria Police, Fire Service and other Paramilitary agencies, providing roadside and mobile clinics for the treatment of accident victims free of charge. Other mandates are to regulate the use of mobile phones by motorists, regulating the use of seat belts and other safety devices, regulating the use of motorcycles on the highways, maintaining the validity period for drivers’ licences which shall be three years subject to renewal at the expiration of the validity period. Needless controversy A safety expert who prefers anonymity, carpeted the NIIT chief’s unprovoked jab at the FRSC. According to him, the law which empowers the Corps to regulate safety could not have excluded from it the power to certify trainees. The Chief Executive Officer of Arrive Alive Road Safety Initiative (AARSI) Mr Ike Okonkwo said the FRSC has become a global brand that should be supported to continue to do everything to promote road safety. Okonkwo, who regarded the antagonism by the NIIT chief as needless and avoidable, said the impact of the FRSC is such that at the global summit of the United Nations (UN) in 2011, the UN, among other resolutions, urged member nations to emulate Nigeria and have a focal agency in charge of road safety. According to him, 1.3 million people reportedly died on global roads in 2011, and such an agency was to lead moves to reduce it by 50 percent in a decade. Okonkwo said AARSI, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) owned by Chevron, First Bank, Zenith Bank and Diamond Bank, has been working with the Corps  to keep the roads safe, adding that FRSC has maintained the lead in educating, training and certifying drivers wishing to drive on the roads. Can motorcyclist fly plane Safety Without Borders Executive Director Mr Patrick Adenusi wondered why anyone would fight FRSC over the certification of drivers. According to him, if no one would fly a plane whose pilot is a motorcyclist, why should anyone not be concerned that drivers who would ply the roads are trained and certified to use the roads. “If FRSC says it won’t do it because they are not empowered by law to train drivers or issue drivers licence, then the number of people dying on our roads, which is put at 5,000 could as well continue to rise.” He said arguments for pulling the rug off the feet of FRSC are self-serving. “No one should pick any hole at who regulates drivers in Nigeria,” he said, adding that over the years, the FRSC has continued to serve as quality control by ensuring that driving schools churn out only trained drivers, while those seeking renewals were mandated to undergo retraining to ensure that everyone keyed into the agenda to reduce road carnage. He said in his relationship with the Corps over the years, he has never heard the Corps own or run a driving school as alleged by the NIIT chief. According to him, though issuance of drivers licence is within the purview of the Motor Vehicle Administration Agencies (MVAA), the tripartite arrangement evolved over time, which saw the FRSC, MVAA and VIO manage the training, and certification of drivers should not be jettisoned. “The tripartite arrangement of driving licence issuance, which has always seen the FRSC, VIO and MVAA work together, has been working perfectly for Nigeria. In other jurisdiction, motor vehicle administration is saddled with drivers certification and drivers licence issuance, but our MVAA here are not as engaging and skilful as MVAA administration in America, which explains why FRSC should continue to play the leading role in sanitising the process through which drivers are certified to use the road and which type of vehicles they are certified to use.” According to him, “One should not forget that the main reason for certification is to reduce  deaths by road accidents, which going by WHO estimates of 30,000 deaths yearly, would have seen a growth rather than a reduction of global death statistics as a result of accidents.