The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, has promised to protect the interest of the state, if elected. He promised to pay bursaries to students in tertiary institutions. Diri, who spoke while interacting with students of the Ijaw National Academy (INC), in Kaiama, Kolokuma-Opokuma, during a programme organised by the Alfred Kemepado-led Bayelsa Forward Movement (BFM), said, the payment would depend on improvement in the economy. Most tertiary students in the state have urged government to pay them busaries. But, Diri, who fielded questions from the students at the main hall of the school, noted that Dickson at the commencement of his administration paid bursaries, but was compelled to stop the scheme due to the economic downturn. He said: “We will explore the possibility of granting scholarships to the best students from this school and other schools. University education is expensive. Some of us while in the university enjoyed some level of scholarship. In our days it was called bursary. “We will pay some levels of bursaries to our students in tertiary institutions. We know that the sitting government also did it until there was a downturn in the economy of Nigeria. Because we are people faith, we are believing that by the time we are coming in the economy will be better off and there will be more resources available for us to do that.” Diri said to consolidate in the academy, founded by Dickson, he would introduce vocational studies and skill acquisition scheme to raise successful entrepreneurs in the state if elected at the poll. He added: “Our plan for education is to consolidate and if we are going to consolidate on Ijaw National Academy, the issues here is that even when you graduate, there is no job. Some of you when you get into the school, you are misinformed or misdirected and some of you via into some social vices. “We want to raise entrepreneurs. We want to bring you up not only as lawyers and politicians, but we want to see our children who are coming up to be like Dangote. We want you to be big time businessmen and women. That is the revolution that we will add to the already existing one.