Alao Abiodun On the 30th of June 2019, ‘Omashola’ with his full name as Omashola Kola Oburoh was unveiled as one of the 21 Housemates of the 2019 Big Brother Naija show. Early on in the show, he formed a strong chemistry with fellow housemate Isilomo, and he also trended on social media after he was spotted swimming in a Jacuzzi. From his funny reactions to events, to his regular hot gist and then his “Warri street!” mantra, Omashola can be described as everybody’s guy. The Delta-born housemate spoke majorly in pidgin English during his sojourn in the house. Omashola making the final five cannot be described as being lucky, rather it has been because of his die-hard fans who have been voting painstakingly to keep him in the house till the final day. No doubt about it, the Warri guy was seen almost everywhere with almost everybody in the House. Since stepping into the House, he has made a mark as the Housemate who has mingled the most, even though he remains single. Also, he could have got lucky with Venita too, but he could not control his love at first sight. Like every other member of the Pepper Dem Gang, Omashola had his own time of anger in the House. If we have forgotten other fiery moments he has been involved in, we really can’t forget his outburst after is coins were stolen. His “I no dey okay o!” is still fresh in our memories. In this piece, here is what you need to know about Omashola; * Omashola Oburoh was born 8th March 1981, aged 38. * He is a graduate of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic. * Omashola is a Model and Entrepreneur from Delta State. * He loves playing basketball and cooking. * Omashola is an entrepreneur. A model who is signed up to Boss model, Johannesburg, South Africa. * Omashola is also one of the managers at Sumo night club. Omashola revealed that liars irritate him the most while also stating that he was going to invest the prize money and triple it in less than a year. Putting his life’s motto “If you want it, go get it – don’t just sit down” into action this year, Omashola got down on one knee and proposed to his girlfriend. But the worst happened; she turned him down!