Vincent Ikuomola, Abuja  The planned regulation of the broadcast industry and the social media is not meant to gag the media or stifle free speech, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Kai Mohammed has said. Mohammed, however, said that the government would not sit by and allow hate speech to become free speech.
He spoke on Thursday at the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) annual lecture series in Abuja. Guest Lecturer, Prof. Kursim Leonard-Fwa, spoke on ”Extremism: A Threat To National Unity”. The minister also noted that the Government was perturbed by the critism that the plan has generated; stressing that no responsible government will sit by and allow fake news and hate speech to dominate its media space. He said, “Since announcing our plan to sanitize both the broadcast industry and the Social Media, there have been varying reactions from Nigerians. I must say this is welcome. It’s exactly what we want: National discourse on the responsible use of the airwaves and the social media. But, for the umpteenth time, I want to say that responsible and ethical journalists, and indeed all patriots, have nothing to fear. Only anarchists and non-patriots, the purveyors of fake news and hate speech, need to worry. “This Administration has no
intention to gag the media or stifle free speech, but it also won’t sit by and allow hate speech to become free speech. ” As I have said at many fora, no responsible government will sit by and allow fake news and hate speech to dominate its media space, because of the capacity of this menace to exploit our national fault lines to endanger our national unity. So, while we welcome the support of most Nigerians who have reached out to us on the need to clean up the air waves and the social media, we also note the criticism of those who oppose our efforts. Make no mistake, however, we are committed to ensuring a responsible and ethical use of our airwaves and the social media.” He also commended FRCN for the choice of the topic for this year’s annual lecture. ” I have no doubt that today’s
lecture will go a long way in helping us to understand even more the dangers posed to our national unity by unmitigated extremism. “This topic could not have come at a better time, and I thank the FRCN for zeroing in on the issue of our national unity. Whether in the area of politics, ethnicity or religion, extremists are tugging at the very core of our national unity. The tell-tale signs of extremism are all too glaring around us, whether it is the secessionist agitations, growing ethnic nationalism, religious extremism or even banditry and insurgency. “As a matter of fact, the situation was so dire when we came in for a second term that we at the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture decided that out first Town Hall Meeting will be devoted to the issue of national unity. Other exigencies have delayed this, but we remain committed to having a Special Town Hall Meeting on National
Unity before the end of this year in order to foster a national dialogue on this all-important issue, so we can X-ray the challenges that extremism poses to nation-building and then fashion out a blueprint for preventing extremist carnage. This lecture by the FRCN is a good start, and I am eager to share in the thoughts of our Guest Lecturer for today. “Before then, let me quickly say that some of the tools of choice for extremists to propagate their dangerous ideas include unbridled propaganda, fake news and hate speech. These are very potent tools in the hands of extremists, whether they are secessionists, ultra-nationalists, religious extremists or even insurgents. And that explains why, since 2017, we have been campaigning against fake news and hate speech. Last July, we launched the National Campaign on Fake News and Hate Speech, and we have recently upped the ante by moving ahead to inject sanity into our broadcast industry. The power of radio and television, including their wide reach, means that we should not allow extremists to turn these powerful media platforms into catalyst for conflict”, he said.