It is sad, tragic really, that the most powerful nation on earth, one of the most politically advanced and sophisticated, should be the one being governed by a virtual illiterate such as Donald Trump. Trump is arguably the most ill-equipped and unsuitable for the high office of all the past presidents of the United States, at least in recent memory. He has neither military background nor public service experience prior to being catapulted to the highest office in the nation. How, in the name of all that is noble and decent could Americans entrust the world’s greatest nuclear button to so vacuous a mind! Whatever happened to their vaunted political sophistication, you may wonder. Well, democracy has its shortcomings after all. A Donald Trump in any Third World country would not be considered abnormal at all. Since assuming office in January 2017, America’s foreign policy has revealed his infantile knowledge of the complexity of world politics. And whenever he is confused on how to proceed, he resorts to sheer braggadocio and verbal bullying, as if he can make the rest of the world conform to his juvenile tantrums by merely waving America’s military might. Like the bully that he is, he once openly threatened North Korea with nuclear annihilation, until he discovered that Chairman Kim Jung-Un does not take kindly to threats. After Kim Jung-Un angrily fired off a few more ballistic missiles to prove his point, a scared Donald Trump scampered home and turned attention to his usual punching bag, the news media that won’t throw nuclear bombs! A basic characteristic of illiterate bullies like Donald Trump is that they are often at a loss what to do and how to react when their bluff is called. Never able to anticipate a day when their bluff would be called, they are ill-prepared and simply lapse into incoherence and confusion once someone stands up to them. Iran has stood up to Trump! Experience has shown that Trump is all bluff and bluster, no substance! And having bluffed his way through a crooked business life, he is now scared silly because the game of politics is a different business entirely, that world politics is much clumsier and treacherous, that even so-called powerful states generally have an imperfect control over situations outside their territories. Due to poor intellectual preparation, Donald Trump is grossly incapable of processing information; he is susceptible to acting whimsically, and always resorts to his natural default setting: winging it. A remorseless and compulsive liar who would claim victory where none is obvious, Donald Trump shows he is not only congenitally immoral but frankly amoral as well. After the failure of his initial fixation on North Korea, on which he had threatened fire, fury and nuclear annihilation, the bully turned his attention to Iran, a country he imagined would be easier to intimidate. Unlike North Korea, Iran does not possess nuclear weapons but instead immense national pride predicated on ancient Persian civilization that is centuries older than the United States and its Western cronies. Like North Korea, it also does not take external bullying lying down. Since Trump’s ill-considered pull-out of the JCPOA, a multilateral treaty intended to prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and force it to respect to its commitment to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, he has tightened sanctions against the country and blackmailed many other countries to conform, in the vague hope that these actions would engineer his much desired regime change in Tehran. Well, Iran like Venezuela has turned out a harder nut for Trump to crack. In recent months, Iran has matched America wit for wit, word for word, action for action and threat for threat. It engaged in a tit-for-tat action over seizure of its oil tanker by British forces in the Strait of Gibraltar at the behest of Donald Trump by seizing a British oil tanker in the Persian Gulf. It successfully shot down a US military drone gathering intelligence over its territory, and signalled its capability and readiness to affect the flow of oil and maritime trade through the choke point which is the Straits of Hormuz. Though it has denied its involvement in the recent drone attacks against Saudi Arabia’s huge oil infrastructure, Iran-made weapons and Iran-supported Houthis in Yemen were implicated. In his speech before the UN General Assembly on Wednesday September 25, Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani indicated that a foreign attack on his country could ignite a war that would incinerate the entire Middle East. This is no empty threat, for Iran has both symmetric and asymmetric capabilities to start a regional war. Looking Donald Trump eyeball to eyeball, Iranian leaders have not blinked, unlikely to blink, and have firmly stated their unwillingness to enter into any dialogue whatsoever with Trump unless and until he returns fully to the JCPOA and remove all sanctions. This is unlike North Korea whose leader met twice with Trump, which allowed him to claim some sort of Pyrrhic victory. Iran on the other hand is a much tougher cookie to deal with. The Iranians have unmistakably given indication that they possess capabilities that even the reputed greatest military power on the planet must sensibly consider before taking actions against their country. Indications are that Iran is eminently capable of combusting the entire the Middle East and putting America’s allies and interests in the region in jeopardy if attacked. In recent weeks, Iran’s actions have threatened not just the geopolitical neighbours alone but global economy at large. Iranian weapons were reportedly used to bomb and cripple Saudi Arabia’s gigantic oil infrastructure. Even though Saudi Arabia parades impressive US-made military weapons and radars, they were of no effect in the face of outside attacks. In the wake of the recent devastating bombing of Saudi Arabia’s massive oil-processing infrastructure, Trump characteristically thoughtlessly blustered that America was “locked and loaded” to respond, only to eat humble pie a few days later when confronted with the realities of Iran’s deterrent capability, i.e., to cause such extensive and unconscionable regional havoc that no one wants. All he can do for now is send more US troops to Saudi Arabia to help the Saudis defend their oil industry which they couldn’t do by themselves even with their huge military arsenal. Now the Saudis are no longer starry-eyed about what American power can do in the Middle East; they are now treading cautiously. It seems that Donald Trump, the illiterate bully who believes that all you need to effect a regime change in any country is wave America’s military might, has finally met his match in Iran! What will Trump do next? It is hard to predict with any confidence, after all we are dealing with an impulsive, erratic and unstable personality, not some cerebral and analytical mind who can easily be second-guessed. What is clear though is that Iran is ready to go for broke if attacked. Any war in the Middle East would definitely not be in anyone’s interest. The costs and consequences are simply beyond contemplation. Let us just pray that President Trump does not stupidly spark a conflagration that would incinerate the entire region.