The Federal Government may not be able recover the N913 billion spent in the power sector by way of intervention over the last six years, it was gathered at the weekend. The Business Representative of TREDIC StarCore in Nigeria, Abayomi Olushola Falana, said there is no hope of recovering the huge cash, if the sector continues with its sloppy performance. TREDIC is a Canadian-owned firm proposing a 23 micro nuclear power stations deal with the Federal Government to improve  electricity supply in the country. The deal is valued at $2.3billion. Speaking on the side of a power forum in Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, Falana said the government, in line with its power sector intervention programmes, gave out the money in two tranches of N213 billion and N700billion, between 2014 and last year. He said the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan bailed out the sector with N213 billion, while the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, provided N700billion to help improve the growth of the sector. Falana said: “Jonathan’s government had in 2014, provided the sector with a lifeline of N213billion while Buhari gave the sector N700billion three years into his tenure as president of the country. Unfortunately, the funds failed to achieve its purpose, as the situation in the sector worsened.” The funds, which he said, were meant to improve activities in the generation and distribution segments of the sector, were not judiciously spent, as the operation of the sector nosedived further. This, he said, is evident by the inability of the power generation companies (GenCos) to generate electricity above 4, 000 megawatts(Mw) in the last five years. “More worrisome is the fact that generation went to its abysmal level of below 3,000 Mw  in recent times. The electricity distribution companies (DisCos) were not improving either. In fact, evacuating power from the grid is an albatross which DisCos  now contend with as power supply reduces by the day,” he added. He  said the recovering the huge cash is herculean. He urged the government to change its strategies, by encouraging activities in the off-grid arm of the electricity industry, adding that by so doing, Nigeria would be able to accelerate the growth of the sector and the economy.