• Army chief’s call for spiritual warfare against terror is in order An unusual seminar reflected the Nigerian Army’s multipronged approach to the war on terror. The focus of the September 30 Spiritual Warfare Seminar at the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja, was indeed thought-provoking: ‘Countering insurgency and violent extremism in Nigeria through spiritual warfare.’ It is reassuring that the programme didn’t signal the army’s abdication of its responsibility on the battlefield, but highlighted the spiritual dimensions of physical warfare. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, who was represented by the Chief of Administration, Maj. Gen. Sani Yusuf, said: “It is easier to defeat Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists than their ideology because while we degrade the terrorists and their havens, the narrative of the ideology grows the group. Therefore, communities, families and groups should join in the fight and narratives to reject and prevent the ideologies of the terrorists and extremist groups.” This call for a collective effort against extremism is in order. It is true that religious terrorism is driven by a mindset. It is also true that the war on terror is essentially a war against a mindset.  It may be said that while physical warfare targets terrorists, there is a need for psychological warfare to combat the mindset that drives terrorism. This is where the collective conscience comes in. However, beyond collective responsibility, there is certainly an important role for religious organisations in the war against extremism. Buratai said:  “Religious bodies and organisations in particular, which interface regularly with the grass roots, should be in the forefront of this spiritual battle and fashion out ways of stepping up their roles. It is a well-known fact that terrorism and terrorist groups cannot be totally eliminated by mainly military actions. This means focusing our efforts on the underlying narratives through ideologies employed by these terrorists to lure innocent citizens into their fold.” Indeed, religious organisations are in a position to influence behaviour by denouncing extremism and promoting religious tolerance and religious harmony. This is where the spiritual warfare that the army called for comes in. “The need to defeat the ideologies of Boko Haram and ISWAP is based on the awareness that it is the ideologies that enhance their resources and help to recruit new fighters to their fold and as such, kill their ideology and the terrorist movement withers and dies,” Buratai stated. No doubt, there are religious organisations that encourage extremism.  A case in point is the Islamic centre at Rigasa, Kaduna State, which the police raided on September 26. More than 300 people, many of them in chains, including children, were freed by the police. One of them, Hassan Yusuf, said to have a PhD in Energy Economics, said his relations had dragged him to the centre two years ago. He was quoted as saying: “My extended family accused me of converting to Christianity…they think they are helping me because, since I became a Christian, I am supposed to die. But bringing me here according to them is to deradicalise me instead of death.” This disturbing picture reflects intolerance, the kind that fuels extremism. The centre’s involvement shows how institutions can encourage extremism. This should be discouraged. While the army’s spiritual warfare seminar is helpful, it shouldn’t distract the military from physical warfare. The war on terror is a war that must be won. Those on the battlefield must concentrate on physical warfare. The Nigerian society should not accommodate religious extremism, or extremism of any kind. In the final analysis, the authorities should deal with the socio-economic conditions that encourage extremism, particularly poverty and ignorance. The troubling Boko Haram insurgency needs an effective military response; in addition, it requires a constructive approach to overcome destructive extremism.