 The lawmaker representing Badagry Federal Constituency, Hon. Babatunde Hunpe, has appealed to the Federal Government to establish a polytechnic in the city. He made the plea in a letter he wrote to the Minister of Education, Alhaji Adamu Adamu. Hunpe stated it was disheartening that since 1955, western education had not progressed beyond the secondary school level in Badagry. He said that the request, if granted, would reduce crime among youths, as residents would be exposed to education. The legislator said: “It will help the border town in reducing crime, as the inhabitants will be exposed to the prospects in education and will also be distracted from crime-related activities. “Again, since almost all ethnic nationalities are represented in Badagry, the federal polytechnic will be of benefit to all Nigerians. “The history of western education in Nigeria is linked to Badagry, as the first primary school in Nigeria was established in Badagry in 1843 by the Anglican missionaries. “It is, however, surprising that Badagry did not experience secondary school education until after a hundred years when Badagry Grammar School was established in 1955. “It is sad that since 1955 to date, western education in Badagry has not progressed beyond the secondary school level. “Sad still is the fact that the impact of the Federal Government is not felt in this regard, despite the immense contributions of Badagry to history, growth of the economy and cultural heritage of Nigeria through its people, land borders, coasts and tourism potential.” He said the establishment of a federal polytechnic in Badagry would be a kind gesture by the Federal Government to give back to the community. “For immediate takeoff of the polytechnic, the good people of Badagry are ready to release a vocation centre situated at Igbogbele village. “It is a site with 10 classrooms on six acres of land. “Philanthropists are also ready to donate some structures to serve as office accommodation for principal officers and others. “A private property owner