 A Corps member serving in Delta state and four others with Army camouflage uniforms , have been apprehended by the Anambra State police command for defrauding someone 1.2 million naira. Also, arrested were 41 alleged cultists, three child stealing syndicate and 25 others at different flash points in the State. Despite the arrests by the Command at the weekend in the state, one of the influential Catholic Priests in the state, has been kidnapped by unknown gunmen in Awka, Saturday. Though, the state police public relation’s officer PPRO, Haruna Mohammed, did not confirm the kidnap Saturday, rather, said he would confirm and get back to the reporter , but The Nation gathered, the Priest was kidnapped at Ngozika estate in Awka. The kidnap of the Catholic priest came barely  three weeks after the launch of operation Kpochakpu II and acquisition of CCTV cameras in the state by Governor Willie Obiano. In a statement by the command which was made available to reporters by the PPRO, out of the 71 suspects arrested, 41 were suspected cultists, 5 were suspected fraudsters including two with military camouflage uniforms and one Youth corper serving in Delta State. According to the statement, “The syndicate were arrested by the Command Special Anti cult unit in conjunction with UNIZIK Campus Anti cult following intelligence report” “Suspects allegedly abducted one Oledimma Macdowal and defrauded  him of #1.2 Million Naira. “Consequently, among the remaining twenty five suspects, three are child stealing syndicate while twenty two others were arrested at various black spots and criminal hideouts in the State. “The operation is still ongoing until all the criminals in the State relocate or refrain from criminal activities.” He said all cases were under investigation after which suspects would be charged to court for prosecution. However, he said the Commissioner of Police John B. Abang, appreciated the continuous supports by Ndi Anambra towards providing useful information to the Police. Mohamed further said that the CP, had assured the Public that the Command would not relent in it’s efforts towards providing safety and security in the State.  