DLM Advisory Partners, a subsidiary of DLM Capital Group emerged as winner of the award for Deal Advisor of the Year 2019. This award was presented to DLM Advisory Partners during the seventh BusinessDay Banks & Other Financial Institutions Award (BAFI), held at the Intercontinental Hotel Lagos. The BAFI Awards was organised by Business Day Media to celebrate excellence and innovation within the financial sector. The Deal Advisor of the year award won by DLM Advisory Partners was due to its role in advising Primero Transport Services Limited, in its capital raising of N16.5 billion, seven-year bond with a fixed semi-annual coupon of 17 per cent. This was a deal viewed as complex and challenging, however, DLM Advisory Partners was able to proffer the best financial advice, using its securitization financing mechanism and expertise. Securitization is a new financing technique in the Nigerian market, and can only be executed by financial institutions with creativity and in-depth expertise. DLM Advisory Partners has proven by this award to be a market leader in providing securitization financing solutions; being the only financial institution to have successfully executed this mechanism in the Nigerian Market. Commenting on the award and DLM’s role in the Primero deal, the CEO of the DLM Capital Group Sonnie Ayere said “DLM is glad to be able to assist Primero raise funds to increase the number of its buses in Lagos. We feel the pain of commuters in Lagos and we are glad to have designed a solution which has in no small measure, helped to ease the movement of Lagosians and Nigerians at large. I want to further emphasize that DLM Capital Group is a developmental investment bank that supports economic and social development, with the aim of driving GDP growth and impacting everyday lives. We thank BusinessDay for recognizing the work we do and we will continue to be innovative in providing financial solutions that have developmental impacts” The BusinessDay Banks & Other Financial Institutions Award (BAFI) 2019 was well attended by top financial players, industry leaders and key stake holders in the Nigerian Financial sector.