The Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Edo State has called for a probe of the N30b Benin Water Storm Project begun by former Governor Adams Oshiomhole. It said the project was supposed to curb erosion menace in the state State Chairman of the of the party, Chief Dan Orbih, called for the probe after conducting on-the-spot-assessment visit to the Storm Water Project site in Egor Local Government Area of the state. Chief Orbih said the project has become a permanent habitat for mosquitoes. Orbih described the Storm Water Project as a hoax because ‘it was mere erosion control project’ He said Edo people were tired of the blame game between the godfather and the godson over projects in the state Orbih said Governor Obaseki has no right to abandon the projects inherited from his predecessor. He warned Obaseki to stop the blame game and complete the project for respite to return to the people of the area. His words, “Starting from the Specialist Hospital project to the crisis in the state House of Assembly and now the Benin Water Storm Project, it is all blame game. “I call for a comprehensive probe of these projects . From the time they acquired the N30b bond, those who facilitated the bond, those who were paid the commission of N1.5b and those who are now shifting blame for the disaster here. “They have been part of this project and they must account for the public fund that have been wasted here. There is no storm here, there is no water storm project, there is no earthquake, nothing. It is all deceit. “They have constructed a gutter that has become a permanent habitat for mosquitoes. “As we approach 2020, which is an election year for the people of Edo state, we call on Edo people to watch very closely the blame game by the APC actors in Edo state between Adams Oshiomhole and Godwin Obaseki. “It is very obvious that there is something that is wrong with this government. It is the duty of government to carry out project that will be in the best interest of the people but here we are, a project that they informed the state will cost about N30b, there are now talking about N150b to complete this project. “They have also come out to say it will take another 30 years for them to be able to complete this project and at a time none of them probably will be alive to answer for the failure of this project. “I want Edo people to look at this government, look at the failure of this government and urged them to put an end to this disaster. I can say quite clearly that we need to change the narrative in Edo state politics, the deceit and the distortion of fact must come to an end.” Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Omuoa Alonge Oni-Okpaku, had earlier said Governor Obaseki is committed to completing the project. Oni-Okpaku said work on the project was on course to address flooding and erosion in Benin City. According to her, “The Uwelu East and West Storm Water Masterplan Project is about 70 per cent completed. Currently, the drains along the powerline is cleaned up. “Proper concrete is used in constructing the drains to allow for proper flow of flood in the channel towards Ogba River. The project is still ongoing.” The Benin Storm Water project was designed to tackle flood in different parts of Benin City and environs. It was begun by former Governor Oshiomhole and it was a project with a mix of deep channels, canals and underground receptacles, will on completion, de-flood hitherto flooded areas in the city. Flood water are to be channelled through the deep canals to Ikpoba and Ogba Rivers.