October 1st, every year is a time to raise awareness on the impact of an ageing population and the need to ensure people grow old with dignity and continue to live in the society as citizens with full right and style. In Africa like other parts of the world, the role played by older persons both to their families and the community where they live, cannot be over-emphasized. No wonder the United Nation set out a day (October 1) to celebrate the older persons while at the same time chart a course for their betterment in the society. In ensuring fairness and justice in all ages, the United Nations has developed a slogan of “Leaving No-One Behind” which necessitates the deep understanding that age matters for suitable and sustainable developments and that the population should be shaped into the key changes in the world. According to the UN, if our ambition is to “Build the Future We Want”, we must address the population of over 60 which is expected to reach 1.4 billion by 2030. The theme for this year International Day of Older Persons is The Journey to Age Equality. The 2019 theme is aligned with Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 10 and focuses on pathways of coping with existing and preventing future old-age inequality. SDG 10 sets to reduce inequality within and among countries and aims to “ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of the outcome,” including through measures to eliminate discrimination, and to “empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status.” Often, disparities in old age reflect an accumulated disadvantage characterized by factors such as location, gender, socio‐economic status, health, income etc. Between 2015 and 2030, the number of people aged 60 and over is expected to increase from 901 million to 1.4 billion- In this regard, trends of ageing and economic inequality interact across generations and rapid population ageing, demographic and societal or structural changes alone can exacerbate older age inequalities, thereby limiting economic growth and social cohesion. The objectives of this year International Day of Older Persons are: To help draw attention to the existence of old age inequality, and how this often results from a accumulation of disadvantages throughout life -and highlight intergenerational risk of increased old-age inequality. To bring awareness of the urgency of coping with existing and preventing future old age inequality. To explore societal and structural changes in view of life course policies: life-long learning, proactive and adaptive labour policies, social protection and universal health coverage. To reflect on best practice, lessons and progress on the journey to ending older age inequality and changing negative narratives and stereotypes involving “older age”. In addition, this year celebration is expected to focus on the care sector as a contributor of decent work, lifelong learning, proactive and adaptive labour policies, universal health coverage and social protective measures for older people.