A doctor at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, Alabi Oyedeji, Monday, told an Ikeja Special Offences Court, that a twin sisters (names withheld), 17, were allegedly defiled by their school principal, Samson Adeyemo over a period of two years. The defendant, who was the principal of the school located in Beckley Estate Abule Egba, allegedly had sexual intercourse with the sisters between 2015 and 2016, when they were in SS1 students. Adeyemo, 30, is standing for allegedly having sexual intercourse with 17-year-old twin sisters and impregnating one of them before Justice Sherifat Solebo. He was alleged to have lured the twins to his office on separate occasions, had sexual intercourse with them, until one of them got pregnant. Dr Oyedeji, a consultant at Mirabel Centre, LASUTH, told the court that the twin sisters confirmed to him that their principal had sexual relationship with them from 2015-2016. According to him, the school principal, in the course of having incessant intercourse, impregnated one of the twins. Led in evidence by the State prosecutor, M. S. Oshodi, the doctor said, “The principal, on several occasion, had sexual intercourse with the twins and one of them tagged, ‘Victim X’ became pregnant. Their mother got to know about it, during an attempt to terminate the pregnancy. “It was in the process of terminating the pregnancy that Victim X found out that the same principal was equally having an affair with her twin sister, tagged Victim Y. ” This was what Victim X verbally told me. However, during the general observation of the victims, I discovered that they were both clinically stable”, he said. Dr Oyedeji told the court that further examination of the twins showed that other structures of body like the urethra was normal. But the vagina entrance had tags of hymen that was fragmented. ” The tags of hymen found at the vagina entry proper suggests a repeated forceful penetration into their vagina. I also took blood and urine samples of the victims, including appropriate screening test,” he said. One of the twin sisters, (Victim X), had testified in court that the school principal kept a camp bed inside his office which he used whenever he wants to have sex with her. Victim X told the court that she aborted the pregnancy through the help of her mother, who took her to a nurse. ” I was still in SS1 when the incident happened. On that day, I was in my classroom when the principal entered and asked if my class teacher was around. I said no. He then ordered me to follow him to his office. “When we got to his office, he started calling me sweet names before removing my school uniform. He thereafter had sexual intercourse with me and instructed me not to tell anyone. “He continued having sex with me over a long period of time until I became pregnant. “I didn’t even know that I was pregnant until one of our neighbours noticed some changes in my body and informed my mother. “When my mother confronted me and slapped me several times, I told her that the principal has been having sex with me inside his office. “My mum immediately called the principal and asked him, and he admitted impregnating me. He then told my mother that we should keep the baby but my mother refused. “The principal begged my mother not to abort the pregnancy but she refused and took me to a nurse to remove it. My mother told him that she cannot allow me carry a baby, at a tender age”. She said it was the defendant that made money available for the abortion. “As a result of the abortion, my parents withdrew me from the school and enrolled me at the defendant’s father’s school, where I wrote my WAEC exams,” Victim X said. Justice Solebo has adjourned the matter till November 18, 2019.