Adesoji Adeniyi, Osogbo/Rasaq Ibrahim, Ado Ekiti/Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta/Damisi Ojo, Akure  PROMINENT South west leaders are demanding  immediate action on the security challenge in the region. They are not happy that almost three months after the killing of Mrs. Toyin Olakunrin, daughter of elder stateman, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, her killers have not yet been apprehended. Second Republic senator Chief Ayo Fasanmi, says the nation’s security situation is worrisome. In a telephone chat with our reporter  the octogenarian said : “I am always worried in a  situation where we can’t sleep with our two eyes closed. “When I paid Chief Fasoranti, my good friend, a condolence visit, I spoke about the need for us together and to be united in the interest of this great nation, no matter our different political affiliations. “Nigeria as a nation must come first before our own interests because  some people are powerless in this country who can’t afford to get security in  their houses. “And notwithstanding, I will advise all our security agents to please do more in their duties.” The Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders(YCE), Dr. Kunle Olajide, expressed sadness over the delay by the police in apprehending the killers of Mrs. Olakunrin. Olajide attributed the ugly development to poor intelligence gathering. He said the security agencies in the country are embarrassingly underfunded and underequipped when compared to their counterparts  in other climes. “It is unfortunate that three months after Mrs Olakunrin was murdered, we have not heard anything definitive from the Police. And this is what allows for a lot of suspicion,” he told The nation by phone. “It is not complementary for the police but we must realize and appreciate the problem of the Nigeria police. “They are not adequately funded. They probably don’t have modern forensic medical laboratory. That is why often time they have to send samples and specimen abroad for proper forensic analysis. And I think we ought to have gone beyond this in Nigeria 59 years of post-independence”, he said. Olajide suggested more budgetary allocation for the country’s security agencies to improve their efficiency and effectiveness, noting that the ultimate responsibility of any ideal government is protection of lives and property. “I think everybody must support this administration. First and foremost eradicate corruption in our system, pay attention to our security agencies, fund them adequately and improve the welfare of the officer, so that they can have commitment to their responsibility. “It is only after that is done that we can now hold them responsible for lapses in their performance of constitutional responsibilities.” Former deputy governor of Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Kaka said justice should be done quickly on the matter. Kaka urged everybody involved in the handling or investigation of late Funke’s case to ensure that there is justice and that the perpetrator(s) do not get away with the crime. The former Deputy Governor said  he would refrain from saying anything much except to “demand that there should justice” concerning the matter. A community leader in Oba-Ile, Akure North Local Government Area of Ondo State, Otunba Omoniyi Omodara said” it is very sad and irritating that up till now there is no clue about the brains behind the killing  of Mrs. Olakunrin. “How on earth can the security  agencies find  it difficult to unravel her killers after almost three months “I suspect something must have gone wrong somewhere.” He hoped the situation will not be a repeat of the  Bola Ige saga. Ige,Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice in the Obasanjo administration was shot dead in his Ibadan residence on December 23,2001 by unknown gunmen who have not been found almost 19 years after. A member of the Police Community Relations Committee(PCRC) in Akoko, who is also a Public Affairs Analyst, Alhaji Ibrahim Kilani however said the inability of police to fish out the perpetrators of Mrs Olakunrin was a fallout of their  lack of modern equipment and gadgets for them to do thorough investigation. He said the federal government had not done enough for police in area of modern equipment and logistics to make them achieve.