 A septuagenarian, Benedict Adeyemi on Friday revealed that some persons he suspected to be security operatives were planning to arrest his daughter over a same sex allegation. Adeyemi, a retired civil servant, raised the alarm in Ile Ife, Osun State, during a chat with journalists. He explained that his daughter, Titilayo Ajilore and her children had been subjected to constant threats following a false report made to the police by her brother in-law, Olalekan. He said Olalekan accused Titilayo of making love with her childhood friend, one Linda Okafor who squatted briefly with her in Lagos. He said his daughter’s travail began few years into her marriage when her brother in-law, asked her out, a request his daughter turned down. “Earlier before Titilayo framed up same sex allegation, during her first pregnancy, her husband’s family members insisted that her first child be incised on the head and chest, as was their custom, a position which was strange to her husband because the man left home at age, 15 to cater for himself after the demise of his father in 1983. ‘’My daughter’s mother in-law had advised her to run away with her pregnancy to prevent the family from carrying out of any ritual on her baby, after birth. Her mother in –law gave the advice because she lost her own first child, Jonathan Ajilore after some rituals were carried out on the boy when he was an infant, hence, my daughter thought of how to protect her child from the said incision/rites by running out of the country with the pregnancy. As if adding salt to injury, Olalekan also became despicable by insisting on going out with my daughter against her wish.’’ He said his daughter, who was carrying a pregnancy was once hospitalised for several days after she was beaten up by thugs on the instruction of Olalekan. Adeyemi said he had been receiving threatening phone calls from several anonymous callers to produce Titilayo, shortly after some security operatives visited his home in Ile Ife, Osun State late last year, when his daughter fled her Lagos residence with her children. “I even learnt that about two weeks ago, people suspected to be security operatives were at my daughter’s former residence in Lagos, still asking for how to get her, from neighbours. Those at the top echelon of our security outfits in Nigeria should come to my daughter’s aid, before she is  prosecuted and jailed for same sex act, an offence she did not commit.”