Belemaoil has upped the ante on how oil firms should impact their communities. Its Corporate Sustainability Responsibility is model. The firm’s Ag. Managing Director, Pedro Diaz in this interview with Group Business Editor, SIMEON EBULU, underscores Belemaoil’s approach in leaving its footprints on its operational areas, including approaches to restoring the environment from years of oil exploration, among other issues. There has been some interesting developments around OML 25. What has changed? OML 25 is a Unitised Block which BELEMAOIL is part of, we have interest of 10.7 per cent. The interest that we do have is to support the  federation in its activities to increase oil  output. That Block has 35,000 barrels potential into the tank and for a long time, there has been a conflict between the local host community in which Belemaoil is part. So we offer facilitation to allow the former Operator to reactivate operation. What we do basically is to mentor the current Operator to understand the way and how we have been successful in operating OML 55 under the Belemaoil Model which is engaging the host communities to participate within the main activities that the oil extraction is associated with. So that is pretty much the support that we have given and in the future, we would see how much we can support the Operator. The host communities expressed so much joy that the issues that surrounded the stoppage of production along that line have been resolved, and even went beyond the euphoria of the moment to say that they don’t mind if in the event of any disengagement, that Belemaoil  should be given the Right of first refusal, so in my own judgement that means the community has bought into your model in the area? There has been a very strong reason behind that, for the fact that in the last 40years, the previous operator has been extracting reserves and wealth from the area, and with their evident result on ground and Belemaoil  has only been operating in OML 55 for three years, and you can visit the area associated with the host communities and see the results for yourself. We have not only been  promoting the peoples’ development,we have also been developing different infrastructure. It is a pity that communities in that area  have not enjoyed portable drinking water. It is not the same as having a bore hole, a real pure treated water which Belemaoil has done along with NNPC as JV Operator. So basic things like supporting the local students and promoting and giving some scholarships, and helping widows in general, integrating the local entrepreneurs to the operation that allows Belemail to be estimulator  within the local communities and to be a good neighbour. That for me dovetails into the issue of restiveness in the Niger delta. What’s your take? Again, you know if the people don’t have a source of income, they see the resources coming out, they definetly would be doing the things that are not really productive, but if you give them the opportunity to work in  activities that are not really high skilled, but you assure them a source of income, they would be occupied doing productive activities. We have trained some of them in  maintenance of wellheads with our contractors, so every time we hire a specialist contractor  we allow them to join some people so they can get trained in their abilities, so in the future they may be able to get a job. Basically, we don’t want to ignore the presence of the communities in our operation. That is heartwarming. There are issues around these communities that border on Corporate Sustainability Responsibilities that are germain  for some of us who have a link to the Niger Delta. How did you manage to become so acceptable in your host communities? The main reason is the spirit that the Founder of the company has. He is a man from the soil and from the very  beginning, he wanted to change the narrative of the oil extraction in the region. The other aspect that is also important to mention, is that the foreign operators are not necessarily maintained for the rest of the life of the assets, they are inclined to minimizing cost and maximizing revenue. We are looking more to maintaining the activity allowing the service to be sustainable, but at the same time looking more  to developing the infrastructure and assist the people that surround us, so if the  people have a better level of life, at the same time they also have jobs, the narrative would be different. So in another side, you will expect the community to be friendly enough to support us on the crude theft activity, bunkering activity which is a day-by-day criminal activity in the Niger Delta. That is interesting. One thing that excites me is your name -BELEMAOIL It means ‘LOVE’. The meaning  of Belema is love, and we want to walk-the-talk by giving love to the people and at the same time receive love from the people and maintain harmony in the activity, but in the past it was completely different, it used to be ‘them and us.’ We want to be completely together extracting the oil from the Niger Delta. This seems to me to be a distinctive approach from the IOCs, right? Well, you just said that they are International Oil Companies. They go to countries and this is not the first country. Nigeria is matured enough, it has 60-plus years  of history exploiting the oil, and it allows local labour force to be able to have enough skills to mature in handling the business, not to mention that indeed there is need sometimes to have some individuals that add value with their experience, because a lot of Nigerians travel abroad and work overseas and eventually they would see the attractiveness of the business and they would return. You know there is nothing better than being at home and supporting the business at home. So in a nutshell I would say that the opportunity for more local indigenous companies has come, and less and less participation of the international companies. You just kick started my next question. How friendly is the environment for Belemaoil to thrive and for other indigenous oil companies to join? I would say that, we don’t have friction at all, the relationship is very cordial, we have proven that in three years. We haven’t had any shut down or unrest, we have been able to manage any  particular crises, we are conducting right now a massive seismic campaign which involves a massive area and we will continue to perform with no stoppers, it is happening successfully. The climate is very cordial. I want to ask you about the support, if any that you have received from the Nigerian Content Development and Management Board? We have received interactions with them, but we have our own community development group along with the Army and Navy, which has maintained the harmony in the region, but the robbers are still around, they have not been eliminated completely, but that is something that is being taking care of. The crude theft and bunkering is there. I want you to be more specific on the Content Development Board. Belemaoil in essence, has added more and more to the local labour force. And we have been promoting not only training, so they monitor us in the local content. I want to say that our level of contracting and participation is, maybe in the neighbourhood of well over 70 plus percent. So we only bring materials from abroad that are not manufactured here, or services that we don’t have here or are very little. I know you said you started about three years ago and it’s quite a short time for one to do an extensive assessment, but that notwithstanding, what’s the level of support you are giving to your contractors? Well, we have maximized the support to local contractors. Those contractors that are not involved, maybe because they don’t have proven evidence that they are qualified. But for as long as they comply with regulations of contracting and follow the procedures, we would give opportunities to all of them, especially contractors from the area which is beneficial for the company based on our module. However, it is important to mention that Belemaoil has gone beyond the Niger Delta. It has been giving support to communities in the north. We have built water facilities in the north, we have built roads, mosques and also university facilities. We have participated and we have donated ambulance and so many other activities just to share the benefits of the extraction of oil. Let me bring you to how impactful a company should be to its community. I guess you must have stayed long in the Niger Delta or heard about it. Look at the state of infrastructure of the area, vis-a-vis the volume of contribution in terms of revenue to the national wealth. How does it compare? That is work in progress. We are trying to change the narrative like I mentioned. But in the past, you have not looked after their infrastructure and basically you have abandoned the oil and gas sector to develop the areas in the capital cities, but not in the rural areas. So I think we have passed a message and there is a return from that. The return is evidence that there is no stopping liberation or disturbing pressure and that allows us to have a steady revenue for the federation. So imagine two years with these facilities that were shut down, how much money represent 35,000 barrels per day for all that period of time. So I am pretty sure that the money gotten in that period of time would have been able to settle many needs that the Belema community and surrounding neighborhood may have. I will come back to that, but let me go to the environment. I read your Mission Statement whilst coming in which says your company wants to be producing in an environment that is economically friendly and socially responsible. Have you kept fate with that? It may be a recurring statement, but Belema is committed to the environment as part of its commitment to the society. The local host community is a fishing community and the fishing activity has been impacted by the exploitation of oil and it has reduced the fishing activity. What we are trying to do basically (this is in progress), is to change the extraction mode. The gas utilisation is to eliminate the flare, producing methanol for the kitchen and diesel for the boats and we would export gas to the local market. And for the produced water, instead of continiung with the production mode that was in place before, or by design, we are changing that to process water at very little pollution level and we are implementing a disposal mechanism to eject the water back to the reservoirs. As we speak we are making studies to do that to return the water, not to the swamps or the sea, but to the reservoir. Again, this is a good approach, but let’s talk about the harm that has been done. What efforts, (not only Belemaoil) but the industry made  to clean up and address the harm? To mitigate the harm, it will take a joint effort. There are new technologies, but to attack the result of so many years – for now is to stop the contamination associated with the oil activity and then we would focus on remediation – and that has to be done in  conjunction with the oil operators, because as you know, we are a business and the company needs to be allowed to succeed. So if the foreign operators maintain their activities in-country, they need to take their share of the responsibilities too Is there any serious cooperation in the industry right now? Well, that is a role NNPC as a major stakeholder will play. To integrate the indigenous and international operators to create a joint effort to maximise the repair of the damage resulting from all these years. We hope they do it well. Can I ask the challenges you have faced so far? One of the major challenges I would say, is crime. The other major challenge is aging of facilites. We inherited facilities that require high maintenance to promote professionalism. This can be a message to the regulators to ensure that any asset that they are handing over, or relinquishing to the local indigenous operators must comply with a minimum level of professional maintenance. So when the indegenous company takes over, there isn’t huge amount of money to be spent on maintenance in order to take the asset to acceptable level and defer the revenue It’s like you buying a used car, but in this case the exploration has been paid for. It’s a challenge that we face. let me ask you about sustainability of some of the corporate social actions taken. Sometimes you throw a bit of activity at the people and you move on. How sustainable are the things you are doing for the communities? Well, we have our complete team that maintains and supports the continuity on scholarships from the very beginning and we plan to integrate the scholars with the working force of the organisation. We don’t have the size, or resources to receive high recipients of our scholars but we definitely will suppory them when they graduate from their discipline. On the infrastructure side, we follow up the execution and do not allow incomplete projects. So we would execute the projects and ensure that the projects are completed and after that we monitor the performance to ensure the people benefit in the long run. Just to mention that we have also taken over some of the activities done by previous operators and we have provided generators and supplied diesels. In the past, generators were given but no diesel, so we supplied diesel and maintenance. So we have taken over operations and activities from others and made them work. Before I move on, it’s important to know whether these activities were part of your original programs or were they imposed on you by the communities? Well, it is a little bit of both. We received requests from the communities through meetings where they expressed their needs and based on our discretion and ranking of needs, we accommodated – definitely power, water, services that are intricate part of the human being. We also have done medical campaigns for vision, dental and the paediatricians to do vaccinations. Those are areas that were not taken care of before. We have done also food distribution campaigns in the Christmas time and in the IDPs in the North, we also have provided some support for feeding. It’s already becoming obvious from studies and from the resources that have been  discovered so far, that Nigeria is basically more a gas-based nation than fossil fuel. Is this true? Well, the survey is around 70 per cent gas resource and we are developing the assets and field development plan based on that. So, yes indeed we’ll have some oil associated, but our plans are to explore the gas and the associated potential. How long do you think this will take to be actualised? Well, we have a plan for five years for now that will allow us to integrate our gas to the network, the domestic network. We also do have a plan for monetising our gas. The other issue I want to talk about is refining. You know that Nigeria is the 6th largest oil producer globally. How is it that we can’t refine oil for domestic consumption? Well the Federal Government has embarked on the campaign to rehabilitate local refineries, the private sector’s also doing that and we’re not there yet, but it is possible that in the long run we look into that, but at this stage we’re focusing more into the production development plan. What we’re doing is changing the crude handling scheme  and bringing a floating installation ship that will allow us to stop using the Bonny Terminal and that would help us reduce losses associated with the liability of using Joint Venture services. Are you speaking in the context of FPSO? It’s not going to have processing FPSO, it’s similar but it’ll receive dry crude oil. It will work as a terminal in front of the Nigerian waters, about 20-35kms in the ocean and we plan to start operation, maybe early next year. That’s a very cherry news, it’ll cost a lot of money? Well, it’s the amount of losses that we have by the unreliable operation of the Nembe Creek Trunk Line (NCTL)  that justified the investment. That brings me to the issue of pipeline vandalism and oil theft. How are you going to overcome that? Well it’s work in progress. Everyday  Belemaoil has included the surveillance programs with local communities, so we provide the people with local contractors to hire people to provide surveillance to our facility. That has resulted in important reduction of the crude theft, not 100 per cent though. However because we’re the only ones doing it, we’re connected to the main strong line and the others are not necessarily doing it, the crude theft associated with the joint line is  distributed among the injectors. That is an area of concern. Can you make a projection of the future of the oil and gas industry? Well my vision is oil is going to be there for a long time, but the business is not necessarily going to be there. So the plan is to accelerate the production and develop the areas that the economic development occurs because the new alternative energy are there- the sun, the wind and others. We need to explore as much oil as possible now because we don’t want to end in 2050 with a lot of reserve not being able to sell. There’s goingg to be some market for countries like India, China and some African countries that would be consuming, the price would be very low, but to sell very high. That’s the message that we need to produce oil today. I asked that question because for Nigeria, the concern is that we’re making so much money from oil now, but we’re not really seeing the plough-back effect,  the multiplier effect of its impact on the other sectors of the economy. So if we can’t do that now like you’re projecting 50 years from now or less, where does that place us? It all goes down to the management and the wealth. You see countries like Dubai, even the Middle East they have identified the formula of how to convert the wealth from the oil into the economy. In my point of view, it’s something that is more dependent on the people of each individual country that have to drive that. You can see countries that have very huge potential in the oil that are in very sad situation and it’s just because of the mismanagement. I want to sign off with this question. Within your locale of operation, how are you actualising this, so that in five years short term, 10 years medium term, 20 years the people in the oil bearing communities, even though they are not directly involved in oil business, will find alternative sources of income and have the benefit of the resource that God blessed them with? Well just to give you an example. Belemaoil is committed to following the mandate from the Presidential Office to relocate its main office and operational facilities to the host community. So we’re going to have office in Kula, Idama and that will allow us to have physical presence and will stimulate the local activities. We plan to develop the Belemaoil Pacific Island which is going to be a building with not only accommodation, but offices. It’s a new development that in the future will  definitely stimulate the economic sector in the area. You need to develop the area to stimulate that. In Idama we plan to have presence so instead of operating by remote we plan on operating from the area. Those are activities that are in the plan, then we do have a complete set of projects for the host communities and along the time, more and more projects would be executed and would definitely stimulate the role of the local people within the sector. Who are you? Who is Pedro Diaz! I’m somebody from Venezuela. I’ve been in the Oil and Gas sector for 36years, worked for the state company of Venezuela for 20years. For the last 16years plus, I’ve been around the world in different roles, worked in the Middle East for 10years and US, Columbia, Argentina, Mexico, mainly in the gas processing production project management. I go where the oil leads. My family lives in the US and I left my country 17years ago.