It kicked off with a premiere that turned out to be a healthy laugh-out-loud moment for select viewers at the 4DX Screen of the Silverbird Cinemas, Ikeja City Mall, Lagos. Season two of the high energy, pan-African game show, is set to be bigger than the pioneer season with more contestants from more countries taking part for a chance to win the $20,000 grand prize. In the next eight weeks, 30 Maltavators, fuelled with Malta Guinness vitamin goodness, from Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia and Cote d’Ivoire, will go head-to-head as they put their physical and mental abilities to the test to see who has what it takes to win the big prize. In the first episode, the first 10 Maltavators started their journey to greatness by participating in obstacle challenges – Power Up and Sharp Shooter and The Vitamizer. Nigeria was represented by the ever-determined female finalist- Ogechukwu Eudora Nwangwu, a development worker from Imo state, and Emmanuel Obienyi Ugochukwu, a fitness fanatic and Go-Getter determined to go all the way to clinch the ultimate prize. Senior Brand Manager, Malta Guinness and Premium Non-Alcoholic Drinks, Ifeoma Agu, who described the show as life-changing, stated that Malta Guinness is, through the show, fuelling the greatness of Nigerians while encouraging them to stay energetic and positive. In an interview with the media, Agu noted that “I am happy that we continue to make contributions towards encouraging Nigerians to stay energetic and positive while staying fuelled with the refreshing vitamins contained in Malta Guinness. Similar to the last season, the Maltavator Challenge Season 2 TV Show will match six energetic Maltavators from Nigeria against other 24 Maltavators from Ethiopia, Ghana, Cameroun and Cote d’Ivoire. They will be put through series of physically and mentally challenging games and obstacles courses at the end of which only one winner will emerge. “Last year, we awarded the grand sum of $20,000 to the winner of the challenge. We remain committed to this social investment as the winner for this season will also go home with the whooping sum of $20,000. Other participants will receive gifts and consolation prizes,” she explained.