The astronomic rise of Dayo Isreal is not new to those who have come in contact with him; his passion and drive for success, has made him a goldfish that has no hiding place, breaking impeccable records and gaining global recognition. The Ibita Ofin Lagos Island born lawyer has shown leadership traits and greatness right from his tender age, which has helped sustained him till this moment. His resume and wealth of knowledge are quite intimidating for his age. As a young chap, he was selected by the United Nations to represent all delegates to the UN General Assembly Special Session on Children on a special CNN Live Interview in 2002. For his contribution to Africa Diaspora Development, he was specially invited by Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh to a private reception at Buckingham palace. He was awarded by the Mayor of London, for his developmental role in Africa with the Person Earnestly Working for Africa (PEWA) award. Interestingly, his blistering performance on the world stage, landed him a job at the National Assembly of Nigeria (Office of Senator Omoworare – now Chairman Senate Committee on Rules and Business). A former student council chair at London Metropolitan University, he was responsible for Strategy Development, Project Design and Evaluation. He also created and maintained relationships with Strategic Global partners such as the World Bank, VSO, British Council and other International Organisations. He is reaping what he has sowed in sweat. In 2016, he tried to clinch the All Progressive Congress (APC) primaries to win the party’s ticket to contest for Lagos Mainland Local Government Chairmanship. He lost out and accepted the outcome in good faith. In 2019, he also tried to clinch the APC ticket to represent Lagos Mainkand at the Halowed State Assembly but also lost the ticket. Little did he know that there is reward for loyalty, consistency, hard work and dedication. Few weeks ago, Governor Sanwo-Olu announced him as a permanent board member of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB) under the chairmanship of Hon. Wahab Alawiye-King. His wealth of knowledge in education and development, we learnt, clinched him the role for the team member. He is currently working assiduously with his team to further revamp and re-position the quality of primary and secondary education in Lagos State.