ANNIVERSARIES like the Independence Day celebration usually afford Nigerian leaders the opportunity to deliver an assessment of the ‘state of the nation’ under their watch. Yesterday, President Muhammadu Buhari got the fifth opportunity to tell Nigerians we are better off today than we were in 2015. Whether he succeeded in that endeavour is a moot point. He did try his level best to showcase what his administration is doing concerning the key areas of security, economy and corruption on which he secured a mandate in the last two election cycles. Only the uncharitable would say his government has done ‘nothing’ in the over four years of his incumbency. The issue is whether what is being thrown at Nigeria’s problems is being delivered in enough doses to make a difference. Some critics would even argue that, in certain instances, because wrong treatment is being applied, we are worse off economically than we were a couple of years ago. We are all experts at retailing what’s wrong with the country. So determined not to be part of the October 1 bore fest of regurgitating our failings, I read the speech looking for positives. And you would find a few – whether in the building up of a healthier foreign reserve, investment in some big ticket infrastructure projects, in attempts to diversify the economy, or even in the administration’s imperfect war against corruption. That said, the speech was a bit disappointing because beyond the ritual chest-thumping expected of every government in power, its rhetoric did little to inspire people to hope for a better day. Indeed, the message could have been the updated version of the ones read in the last two years. In the preamble, the president reminds us of his charge four years ago, that we may have voted for ‘change’ but it isn’t going to appear like a conjurer’s trick. He said: “We must change our lawless habits, our attitude to public office and public trust… simply put, to bring about change, we must change ourselves by being law-abiding citizens.” Accepted that even a government of angels would be challenged when confronted by a people uniquely gifted in circumventing every rule made by man. Still it is the burden of leadership to corral the most recalcitrant of followers and point them in the direction you want them to go. It goes beyond just seeing the fault of those you lead. We certainly have an attitude problem in the areas the president spoke of. But it would be more helpful if rather than the name-calling and finger-pointing, the president came up with a specific national reorientation programme that helps to reshape the people’s mindset. This is especially urgent because the younger demographic in this country are already headed in a direction that should alarm anyone concerned about the future. Almost on a daily basis the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) parades scores of young men in their 20s and 30s who have been arrested for internet fraud and other forms of cybercrime. Many have been driven into this activity by unemployment and lack of opportunities. Others have simply made wrong moral choices. In addition to whatever families, religious organisations and local communities are doing, the government should weigh in with its own solutions. The president didn’t really speak to this. Interesting, the accomplishments of the youths in the area of the arts and entertainment represent one of the bright spots for Nigeria in the last 10 to 15 years. Today, our pop singers like Davido, Burna Boy, Wizkid and others are world beaters who are competing against the best in America and Europe. They have achieved what they have with little or no government support. Perhaps the president, being an honest man, wisely chose not to ascribe their strides to any special thing his administration has done. But the government can build on what has been achieved through policy intervention to further boost the entertainment industry as a means of generating jobs. The same can be done in the area of sports which is a major employer of young people globally. Buhari’s speech never glanced in this direction. Equally disturbing is the fact that while acknowledging we have a crisis with our exploding population, he didn’t suggest anything radical was being done about it – beyond the perfunctory comment about creating jobs. He did, however, bemoan the abuses of social media to further hate and division talking, again, about individual rights needing to take a back seat to national security and interest. His remarks are interesting against the backdrop of the ongoing trial of Sahara Reporters publisher, Omoyele Sowore, the activities of pro-Biafra secessionists and opposition activists. Perhaps, the trial would throw up earthshaking evidence of the capabilities of a rabblerousing activist to topple an entrenched government. Still, one cannot help but view the case as further evidence of the lack of progress made in furthering civil liberties in the last few years. I have had the privilege of listening to heads of some security agencies go to the extent of labelling critical comments made against the incumbent president in the heat of the last election season as acts against national security. I would suggest that we face a greater security threat from the activities of Boko Haram/ISWAP fighters, kidnappers, compromised security agencies at our borders – even from the ailing economy – than from publicity-seeking agitators. I made this point in my piece titled ‘The trouble with the Buhari Doctrine’ written after the president controversially said last year that there were instances where individual rights must come second to the national interest. It bears repeating here: “Although Buhari has run to a certain Supreme Court ruling for cover, the trouble with the newly-espoused doctrine is that national interest is such a nebulous concept which is open to diverse interpretations, misinterpretations and manipulation by malevolent forces. “What is in the national interest of a country is often down to what the individuals who run it think it is. There are hardly ever any objective parameters for defining it. ‘National interest’ is what regimes hide under to clamp dissidents in detention. But the moment a more liberal administration takes over, one of its first acts is often the release of detainees – in the ‘national interest’ – in order to score points locally and internationally and shore up support.” Just a few points of cavil. Hopefully, someone out there would take notice and make adjustments.