Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja  The Director-General of the Musa Wada campaign organisation, Mr Tajudeen Yusuf, has predicted the defeat of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State and Senator Smart Adeyemi in the upcoming elections in the state. While Bello is seeking re-election as governor, Adeyemi is seeking to return to the Senate once again, to represent the Kogi West senatorial district. Governor Bello, who is contesting on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is being challenged by Mr Musa Wada of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Also, Adeyemi is challenging Senator Dino Melaye of the PDP for the Kogi West senatorial seat, following the nullification of the latter’s election by the Court of Appeal, which ordered a rerun poll for the district. But Yusuf said the two elections, slated to hold on November 16, will mark the retirement of Governor Bello and Senator Adeyemi from partisan politics. In a statement he circulated in Abuja on Monday, the campaign DG said lack of infrastructural development, impoverishment of civil servants and gross ineptitude of the Bello administration have pushed the electorate in the state to embrace the PDP and its candidates. Stating that the administration had set the state ten years backward, Yusuf said the PDP would put an end to the nightmares through the ballot, with the support of the Kogi people. The statement said, “Last weekend, people from the 21 local government areas across Kogi state gave the PDP a rousing indication of coming victory in the November 16 polls, with enthusiastic support of our campaign flag-off at the Confluence Stadium in Lokoja. “We thank all our grassroots activists, party leaders at ward, local, state and national levels for the success of the flag-off of our campaign towards putting Engineer Musa Wada and Hon Sam Aro in Lugard House and re-electing Senator Dino Melaye as senator for Kogi senatorial district. “In the face of all manifestations of desperation by Kogi APC, the PDP is increasingly certain of success in the November 16 polls and for this, we sincerely thank all our party leaders, grassroots activists and the entire citizenry of Kogi state whose determination to sweep out the outgoing governor and his grossly insensitive leadership only assures of a coming victory celebration for PDP in Kogi state. “The Kogi state APC tried to imitate us, but with their usual trademarks of deceit and falsehood. In the history of Kogi state, no governor ever presented a Greek gift in the form of a used Rolls Royce car to a paramount traditional ruler in whose domain the roads have been neglected for four years”