RESIDENTS and property owners in Magodo Estate, Lagos under the aegis of Magodo Residents Association (MRA) are worried by an alleged plot to demolish the wetlands section of the estate. They also called on the Ministry of the Environment to save their properties valued at over N10 billion from being washed away by erosion. The affected zones include Filling Edge, Green Valley and George Udom streets. There are no proper drains in the area, and storm water gathers in a large pit where sand was once excavated for development  purposes. The widening pit has put  70 houses in danger. The Nation also gathered that the Lagos State government  has already allocated all the lands surrounding the wetlands and the residents are not happy about the development. Their concern is that lives and properties will be callously exposed to danger if the wetland is destroyed. The association, on behalf of the Chairman Mr Jade Niboro is calling on the state government to cancel all allocation of lands on the wetlands. The Nation learnt that most of the houses on George Udom Street are on the highland and prone to erosion. Most of these properties are in  danger of being washed away by erosion. It was learnt that there are no natural drains to gather stormwater from a particular area. Niboro said, “We have different points from the estate where we have storm water collector like the one at Bashiru Shittu Street/Adetoro Adelaja Street. The next one is the one at the filling edge zone which is not constructed, so the whole water is absorbed by the soil which forms the hill where those properties are on. You can see that the soil is eroding gradually and if nothing is done to arrest the situation to construct a retaining wall, which the residents cannot afford because that’s the problem of the Ministry of Environment and drainage to construct a proper drain storm water collector, those properties would not survive another year, he added. Also speaking, second vice chairman, Mrs Kemi Omotoso said “We cannot allow the wetlands to be allocated for all the projects that we are begining to envisage and encounter. So we are still calling on the state government to wade in. When Governor Babajide Sanwo Olu came here during the electioneering, he promised us that nothing is going to happen to the wetlands but right now this is what we are seeing. So we are calling on the governor to please come in, and the ministry  involved to put a stop to it.” 