China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) has assured Nigerians of its readiness to deliver a world-class speed train service, the firm’s Public Relations Consultant Prince Abdulrouf Akinwoye said on Thursday. He said the contractor handling the $1.7 billion rail Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge rail project is committed to working with the Federal Government in building a resilient economy, assuring  host communities along the ongoing speed train project corridor of CCECC’s commitment to the the project. Akinwoye said the Chinese firm is not only interested in building the double track rail system for the standard gauge, but has been involved in improving the quality of lives of Nigerians. The consultant, who expressed the CCECC’s commitment to the completion timelines of the project said CCECC’s workforce and equipment in all the remaining three sections have been drafted back to Lagos known as section one, to enhance the contractor’s capacity to deliver. He said section one, with a design scope of 45km, from Ebute Meta to Iju, Toyin area, remains the most challenging, because it traverses a built up environment, with challenges ranging from  housing, gas pipelines and water pipelines criss-crossing the Lagos corridor, which needed to be relocated and protected. He said, “We are not unaware of the fact that the masses are complaining in some areas, but on the part of CCECC, we are committed to strictly comply with the Environmental Impact Assessment as well as the Social Impact Assessment of this project and we remain committed to ensuring that the masses does not suffer. As far as we are concerned in CCECC, we are socially responsible and we remained committed to partnering with the Federal Government to diversify the economy.” Akinwoye said besides constructing the tracks, the contractor is also helping especially the Lagos State government in constructing a drainage network, which according to him have helped in preventing the negative impact of the flooding in so many parts of the state. He listed areas where the contractor has constructed drainage network to include Ebute Meta, Yaba, Mushin, Oshodi, Shogunle, Ladipo and Ikeja, adding that movements along all these corridors would be considerably enhanced once the project is completed. “The kind of culverts and drainages we are constructing would take more than three decades, adding that despite the inclement weather and the rain which has almost been non-stop in recent times, CCECC has continued to proffer world class engineering solutions that would beat the test of time,” Akinwoye added.