Oseheye Okwuofu, Ibadan  THERE was pandemonium around Aleshinloye area of Ibadan on Thursday night when some people suspected to be armed robbers invaded the area and shot two motorcyclists. The unexpected attack was said to have sent the people around the area panicking and confused, while motorists and other road users made a u -turn and ran to safety. There were deafening sounds of gun shots, causing fear and panic in the area, before the gunmen disappeared with valuables. The incident, according to a source occurred at Cele Bus Stop around 9 PM. It was learnt that the armed robbers shot the motorcyclists who were in a bus stop to pick prospective passengers. The armed robbers were said to have went away with the victims’ motorcycles worth over four hundred thousand naira (N400,000.00) after they were shot. A source disclosed that the victims were immediately rushed to the University College Hospital (UCH), around 10 PM. He added that the victims were still at the emergency section of the hospital as at the time of filing this report. “Yes, there was an armed robbery attack at Alesinloye Market Road. Two people were reported to have been shot and have been rushed to emergency section of the UCH hospital. “I was there. I took my sister to the hospital. The spate of okada and bag snatching is on the increase. “The incident occurred around Cele area, along the road. There is another woman who was brought to the hospital. She want to cross the road when they snatched her bag. The incident occurred at Amuloko area.” Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the state Police Command, Mr. Olugbenga Fadeyi , a Superintendent of Police (SP), when contacted however said that he was not aware of the incident. Fadeyi who said he was on an official engagement outside the state, added that he had not been briefed about the matter. However, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the hospital, Mr. Toye Akinrinlola, confirmed that the victims were rushed to the hospital yesterday after they were shot. Akinrinlola on Friday maintained that the victims were in stable condition at the emergency section of the hospital. He said, “Yes. It is true. They are here. They were rushed to the hospital yesterday. They are in stable now. We can’t disclose the identity of our patients but, what I know is that they were rushed to the hospital yesterday and they are in stable condition.” 