The Police in Gombe has rescued a 7-year-old boy and arrested 16 crime suspects in Gombe State for various crimes. SP Mary Malum, the Public Relations Officer of the police command, said this while briefing newsman in Gombe on Thursday. Malum said the police arrested the suspects for kidnapping, culpable homicide, rape, criminal conspiracy, armed robbery and child abuse. She said that most of the suspects have confessed to the crimes and would be charged to court for prosecution, adding that some of the cases were still being investigated. “In the case of kidnapping, the police arrested one 19-year-old Mohammed Ahmed for kidnapping a 7-year-old boy by name Hassan Abubakar of Kumbiya-Kimbiya quarters in Gombe. “The suspect saw the victim in a mosque performing ablution and sent him to buy a sachet of pure water for him. He followed the boy and picked him on bike to his house. “He demanded for ransom of N3.5 million for the boy’s release and when the ransom wasn’t forthcoming, he decided to call the victim’s uncle to tell him that he found the boy. “Also, a 17-year-old boy was arrested in connection to a case of culpable homicide where he stabbed one Yusuf Sulaiman as a result of disagreement over sharing of food (masa). “The police recovered one electric iron, one machete, five knives, two iron rods, two school bags from the suspects,” she said. While assuring Gombe residents of the command’s resolve to fight crimes and criminalities, she advised members of the public to take necessary security measures in safeguarding their children and ward both at home and at schools. Abubakar Adamu, father of the rescued 7-year-old boy told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that he was happy that his son was back home. Adamu said: “I want to thank the police and everyone who prayed for my son to return home. I am very happy that my son is back home. “I reported the case to the police and they responded with investigation while giving me tips on what to do when the suspect calls and in the end my son is back home. “I want all parents to always pay attention to the whereabouts of their children and keep watch over them,” he said.