Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  Southern Ijaw, the biggest Local Government Area in Bayelsa State and home to the governorship candidate of the APC, Chief David Lyon, has promised to support the Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri. The people, who came out en masse in their various communities to receive Diri and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor, said Diri had the capacity to govern the state. They blamed the APC for the crisis that rocked the area during the last National Assembly election which resulted in the death of one of the PDP leaders and the Government House photographer, Reginald Dei. The PDP governorship campaign train was assured by the people during the rallies held at Korokose, Ekowe and Oporoma communities of bloc votes. Addressing the crowd in Oporoma, the Southern Ijaw local government headquarters, a former Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Friday Kombowei Benson, declared that there would be no negotiation of votes with other political parties in the area. He said Southern Ijaw local government area had benefited immensely from the Restoration government and PDP. Also speaking, the state chairman of the PDP, Mr. Cleopas Moses said the APC lacked the presence to win any election in the state. The chairman accused the APC of violence and brigandage, claiming the party was not prepared for the forthcoming election. He alleged that the APC was planning to secure victory through the back door in connivance with the agencies of the Federal Government. In his address, Ewhrudjakpo blamed APC for impoverishing the country, arguing that the country was not named poverty capital of the world when the PDP was at the helm of affairs. He said the exchange rate was nothing to write home about while the price of the foodstuffs especially rice is experiencing a geometric increase. While soliciting the support of the electorate from Southern Ijaw, the PDP candidate, Senator Diri said he would ensure the completion of Yenagoa/ Oporoma road started by the Restoration government.