Former Chief of Army Staff Lt. Gen. Alani Akinrinade has reflected on the 59th independence anniversary, noting that selfless leaders are in short supply. He said attention had been focused on some peculiar considerations, including ethnicity, religion and gender, instead of qualitative and selfless leadership. Akinrinade, who retired from the Army as Chief of Defence Staff in 1981 at the age of 41, said many Nigerians who are aspiring to leadership are not motivated by selfless service. He said if sefless service was the criteria for leadership recruitment, many soldiers and politicians will not aspire. The retired soldier lamented that the military departed from professionalism by meddling in politics. In his view, soldiers wrecked havoc on the polity through their activities, which culmunated into an avoidable civil war that led to loss of valuable lives and destruction of property. Akinrinade spoke with reporters in Lagos ahead of his 80th birthday holding at the Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Oyo State capital, tomorrow. The elder statesman reflected on his civil war years, career as a General Officer Comanding (GOC), Dimka coup, his retirement at a ‘tender’ age, his resignation from the Babangida government, Afenifere crisis, the June 12, 1993 election, the pro-democracy struggle by the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), and Chief Moshood Abiola’s death. He also spoke on the two decades of stable civil rule, national security, President Buhari’s style, indiscipline in the Army, former-President Olusegun Obasanjo’s letter-writing style and the battle for true federalism. Noting that Nigeria still has a long way to go, he said corruption has remained an endemic problem. He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to demonstrate firmness and consider the imperative of restructuring. Akinrinade said Nigeria needed a re-arrangement, warning that its avoidance could be dangerous in the highly divided and heterogenous country. He frowned at the avoidance of the 2014 National Conference report by the Federal Government, saying that it was not a wise decision. Akinrinade wondered why President Buhari, whose party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), later set up a panel on restructuring, decided to ignore the conference report. 