For Nigeria to address its lingering socio-economic challenges, there is need for the Federal Government to jerk up budgetary allocation to the education sector by over 20 percent, says Prof Taiwo Edun. Edun stressed that the 20 per cent should be progressively increased as each year rolls by. Edun, a professor of Sociology of Education at the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, stated this while delivering a paper at the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL), in Niger State. The event was the fourth national conference of Faculty of Education and Arts, with the theme: ‘The issues of access, quality and equity in Nigerian education system’. Prof Edun said it is unfortunate that Nigeria has been identified to have the highest rate of out-of-school children in the world, saying that in July 2019, the figure was put at over 16 million by the United Nations. He  maintained that unless urgent and deliberate steps are taken by relevant stakeholders to salvage the situation, the future of Nigeria’s education system will ‘forever remain bleak’. The OOU teacher advocated a fair distribution of the nation’s resources in order to address the problem of social inequality, while also enabling children majority of who are from poor homes access to quality education. Declaring the conference open earlier, Vice Chancellor Prof Muhammad Maiturare, represented by his Deputy (Academics), Prof Saba Mohammed, bemoand the cold shoulder given to education by successive authorities despite laudable recommendations that are being  offered by seasoned educationists, relevant stakeholders and key experts, from time to time. He praised the institution’s Faculty of Education and Arts for organising a national conference on a relevant topic that brought to fore some fundamental issues which could help develop the country’s education system. “I charge the participants and eminent speakers to come up with vital recommendations that would help reposition our moribund education system,” said Maiturare. Speaking earlier, the Dean, Faculty of Education and Arts, Dr. Salahu Muhammad Lawal, and the Chairman, Local Organising Committee (LOC) of the conference, Prof George Eweniyi, expressed appreciation for the unwavering support received from the management, which they said, facilitated the successful hosting of the conference.