By Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa  The Bayelsa State Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief David Lyon, has lambasted a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Keniebi Okoko, following his claims that he lacked the capacity to win the November 16 election in the state. Lyon, in a statement by his Media Aide, Chief Gift Ebiki, accused Okoko of suffering a post-traumatic disorder caused by his failed bid as a governorship aspirant to clinch the ticket of his party. The candidate in the statement said the way and manner Okoko was deceived by his party elders and defeated at the party primaries of PDP despite spending huge amount of money and other resources were enough to cause such trauma. He asked Okoko to beseech God and pray for quick recovery from the shock he suffered at the PDP primary poll to enable him accept the reality of a crushing and embarrassing defeat waiting for his party at the poll. Lyon said Okoko misfired for comparing him, “who is already cruising to victory following his mass appeal and popularity” in the state with the Candidate of the PDP, Senator Douye Diri, “who is battling popularity crisis”. He said Okoko had further shown his immaturity for allowing the state government use him as an attack dog even when it was crystal clear that his party especially the current administration had disappointed the state. Lyon said: “I am a well-nurtured, responsible and mature person, who will not turn logic in its head for political convenience. I have demonstrated value for human lives and will never allow myself to be used as an attack dog. “I urge Keniebi Okoko to tell Bayelsans how many people he has empowered in his community. Instead of using his wealth to create job opportunities for his immediate family and community, he uses his wealth to hire private jet to go to South Africa for birthday parties while his community people are in abject poverty. “Keniebi Okoko as far as I am concerned could not manage his present mental instability having lost his primary election because he has promised a lot of IOCs that he was going to be the next Governor of Bayelsa State. Unfortunately, he couldn’t have been elected as a councilor in his ward. “Keniebi Okoko has now been hired as an attack dog by Governor Dickson to cast aspersions against me saying I am not competent and could not cope in the midst of other governors. “I do not know the parameters for him to make that assessment. Every success I have in my life is by dint of my hard work and commitment coupled with the blessings of God and not from wives or parents who use their offices to provide silver linings to get contracts from IOCs. Keniebe Okoko, lacks courage to think on his own to make success in life. “I say emphatically that that am not contesting election with Douye Diri but am contesting the election with Governor Dickson and his inglorious Restoration team. I am properly groomed in community, local government, state and oil company politics before emerging as the governorship candidate of the APC. “I know that Bayelsans are wise enough to make a choice in the November 16th election, and I David Lyon will win the election by landslide”.