 THE Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) said it plans to support the increase of production of good and services for the growth of the economy. Its Director, Corporate Communication Department, Isaac Okoroafor stated this during a two-day consumer sensitisation outreach in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital on Monday. Represented at the event by the Assistant Director in the Department, Samual Okugbue, dircetor said no country grows with oil and gas revenue, hence the need to diversify the economy cannot be overemphasised. He explained that oil revenue is not organic because the technological know-how  and expertise that bring about the revenue are foreign and holds no local inputs that can grow stages of local economy. He insisted that developing the local industries such as the film making, textile/garment industries and other small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) in the country would bring about growth of the country and her citizens, create employments and boost the foreign reserve of the nation. “By producing goods locally, jobs will be created and the value of the Naira will appreciate and the chain effect is that the domestic economy will become vibrant. “How many Nigerians are employed in the oil industries? Nigeria has oil, but does not have the technology and manpower to bring it to the usable state, they extract it, send it to them, they refine and we go back to buy.  How has that affected our economy here? How many jobs has it created among others? This is the reason for the call for diversification of the economy. “But on the other hand, the source of income of the local manufacturers is organic;  every of the processes of their products is local, that us why CBN is driving the growing and production of cotton, rice among other agricultural and agro-allied products. We want the textiles mills to come back on stream, jobs will be created, importation of textiles will be discourage, to save the country of huge capital flight.” He expressed support for the ongoing boarder closure insisting that if the foreign companies that Nigerian businessman were patronising so miss the patronage, they should come and establish their companies and businesses in Nigeria. He insisted that the huge importation of agricultural products such as rice, chicken, textiles amongst others is suffocating the local economy. “We have to emulate the Chinese economy. When China began manufacturing people referred to their products as “fake products”. Today, China is leading in the manufacturing of most products in the world. Nigeria can become another China. “What our people are doing in Aba, Abia State is an encouraging example,” he said.