A non-profit organisation, Project Enable Africa, is creating jobs for the disabled. It is a community development initiative that advocates empowerment of persons with disabilities in Africa, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Disadvantaged young people across Nigeria can now run their own businesses and social change projects, thanks to a nonprofit organisation, Project Enable Africa, a community development initiative that advocates empowerment of persons with disabilities in Africa. Its Executive Director, Mr. Olusola Owonikoko, who visited the headquarters of Vintage Press Limited, said the organisation  has established an Inclusion Hub in Surulere, Lagos  dedicated to enabling people with disabilities get support services. The project, supported by the United States government through the Alumni Engagement Innovation Funds and the US Consulate Small Grant, is aimed at promoting access of young persons with disabilities to ICT skills and opportunities, saying the organisation through its Fellowship Programme, offers training opportunities to 20 selected young persons living with disabilities in the hub. A few of them, according to Owonikoko, have participated in  coding and computer skills workshops, adding  that the organisation  aims to promote technology sector careers among disadvantaged  Nigerians in digital roles. He said technology and innovation create opportunities to accelerate problem solving, enabling people and societies to thrive, adding that the organisation is working to ensure people with disabilities are not left behind in the digital revolution, with challenges, including impaired vision, and hearing challenges. He noted that technology and the acquisition of digital skills in particular can level the playing field for people with disabilities, adding that the NGO wants to ensure people with inpairments develop the skills needed to fill job opportunities created across the economic super structure. Owonikoko said students with disabilities have benefited from IT courses, stressing  that helping people with disabilities develop technical skills is a win-win. This is because it enables them to get jobs, build careers, gain personal independence, and overcome cultural stereotypes. He said the organisation has supported initiatives nationwide, including vocational training for physically challenged people. Guided by the goal to improve the labour force’s skill levels, Owonikoko said the organisation has launched a programme to improve the quality of technical and vocational education and training for disabled persons to have skills that respond to the labour market’s demand, and contribute to the nation’s economic development. At its centre in Surulere, disabled persons are exposed to core skills and competencies that they need for their future jobs and life-long development. According to him, Nigeria needs to do more to support people living with disabilities who want to run their own businesses. At present, he said,  it is hard for them to make a living, adding that helping them would benefit the broader economy too. Employability skills to meet business needs While the unemployment rate in the population of people with disabilities is worrisome, there is reason for hope.  This is because the hub is offering many examples of creative job training programmes and work opportunities for people with disabilities. With industry participation, he said disabled persons gain workplace skills before graduation, adding that it helps to address a recurring challenge where new graduates cannot get jobs while companies cannot find workers with the right skills.