The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Court of Justice has said that member-states must invest in ECOWAS court for a stronger economic integration in the sub-region. A member of the Court, Justice Dupe Atoki stated this at a press briefing on the sensitization mission of the court’s delegation to Lagos which held at Ikeja on Friday. According to him, if any community is desirous of having a rapid and more meaningful regional integration, it must be willing and prepared to invest particularly in institutions that will make people develop their potentials with dignity. “A fully fledged community court of justice with all its attendant jurisdictional roles is one such institution; the community’s goal for a stronger economic integration must pay the price now by investing in institutions that will guarantee its existence.” She also urged Nigerians to avail themselves of the availability of the court to protect their rights and that the reason for sensitisation was because there was a lack of full knowledge of the existence of the ECOWAS Court of Justice and its working. She said the court was collaborating with every relevant stakeholders in the country that could spread and provide adequate means for the citizens to know their rights. According to her, individuals can access the court by lodging complaints of violations of human rights, which they have experienced from member states. ”The headquarters of the court is in Abuja, and that is the seats of proceedings, that is where all complaints with regards to violation can be lodged by any individual who feel aggrieved by infractions of state governments,” she said. Responding on ways the court can ensure compliance, Atoki said that the judges remained function officials, once they had delivered judgement, adding that it is not the duty of the court to press government to obey court orders. She said once judgment has been delivered, the information is passed to the ECOWAS commission, who is responsible for bringing the judgment to the attention of the relevant member state for compliance. ”And to that extent, the judges have no role to play in the implementation of the judgment, other than to raise the concern and hope that this will be addressed by the relevant member states,” she said.