There was pandemonium when students of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (Futminna), in Niger State, tackled a tanker driver as a result of an accident that occurred around the school premises. An eyewitness told CAMPUSLIFE that the accident  occurred during the Students Union campaign in preparation for its election proposed to hold last weekend. During the students campaigning to other campus at Bosso, the tanker driver was reported to have hit a student while trying to overtake another car. Trouble started when the tanker driver remained adamant despite that the victim sustained serious injury and was quickly rushed to a hospital. “Instead of apologising to the entire students and settling the matter amicably, the driver fumed, saying’ ‘Is it not just one student out of many?’ The statement infuriated the already incensed campaigners who engaged the driver and the indigenes of the community,” the eyewitness said. A student, who identified herself simply as Mariam, confirmed the recalcitrance of the driver. She said: “When the incident happened, the driver did not feel sorry. This prompted the students to block the road, preventing other vehicular movement. Later on, other tanker drivers gathered and started all sorts of unfriendly acts. “They (drivers) threatened to burn down the students’ houses around, that is where the indigenes intervened that they would not fold their arms while their fathers’ properties  are being set ablaze, all because of the students. “It was later on that they started fighting the students with knives, weapons and even entered the school to destroy properties and burned down two cars.” Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, another student Adetoro Opeyemi said: “A student was standing on one of the campaign cars, and a tanker was coming from behind the car. Upon seeing this, the student jumped down from the car and the tanker hit him, this later caused a leg injury. “Students tried to stop the driver but he did not. After view minutes, he parked at a nearby filling station where the students rushed to him to explained what havoc he had caused. The driver’s reply got the students angry. Even though he escaped, all later turned to a fight between his fellow drivers, indigenes and students.” “The crisis started around 1pm on (last) Thursday and was later resolved the following day,” he added. Public relation office of FUTMinna Students’ Union Abdulrasheed Ibrahim, said it all happened when a driver hit one of the students campaigning around. “But before we knew it later that day, the drivers and the villagers have already joined to fight the students and started destroying properties including cars,” Ibrahim told CAMPUSLIFE on phone. He continued: “After the intervention of the government; the police came around and that worsened the whole thing. They were throwing teargas at the students which got many injured. Even the SU president and one of the vice presidential aspirants were wounded. “As a result of this, all academic activities have been put on hold for now, and instructions have been given that the tankers parked around the school should be moved away. The school is supposed to commence the semester examination in two weeks time, and the managements does not want to alter academic calendar,” he concluded.