The fear of the police is gradually becoming the beginning of wisdom for the members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) popularly known as the Shi’ites, writes GBENGA OMOKHUNU Since Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) leader Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenah, have been in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) since December 2015, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja and other parts of the country have known no peace. The El-Zakzaky and his religious group, with administrative headquarters in Zaria, Kaduna State, are generally perceived to be notorious, particularly in Kaduna State. Only travellers to Kaduna and Kano states who had encountered the members during processions that usually take over large portions of the major highways, can tell the story better. The movement began with a Shia Muslim university activist, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, who is said to have become so impressed with the 1979 Iranian Revolution that he wanted one at home. Later, Zakzaky went to Iran and ultimately became a Shia cleric. At home, he became the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria and turned it into a vehicle for proselytising and gaining followers in the 1990s. As a result of his activities, millions have converted to Shia Islam in a country where they were rarely known before. The group, again, clashed with the police in Abuja last Friday during its annual event to commemorate its Arbaeen trek. This sparked fears of another confrontation with the security operatives who dispersed from the popular Wuse market with tear gas and gunshots. Although no life was lost in the clash, several Shi’ite members were injured during the incident that lasted for about 30 minutes. Arbaeen is a Shiite annual religious practice usually conducted on the 20th Safar of the Islamic calendar to mark the 40th day of the murder of Imam Hussein, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad who was killed on 10th Muharram. Following the development, the Academic Forum of the Islamic movement expressed sadness over the clash. In a statement by Forum, signed by Abdullahi Musa said: “This year Arabaeen symbolic trek here in Abuja had been scheduled for Saturday, October 19, 2019. However, another evil plan, of which we were reliably informed, had made it a near impossibility, for the safety of the populace and public properties. “We discovered that the Police and other security agents had schemed to cause mayhem and violence to enable them to put the blame on Sheikh Zakzaky’s followers just like they did on July 22 at Federal Secretariat where they killed a senior police officer and a journalist. We decided to reschedule the procession, but in spite of the rescheduling, police attacked the peaceful solemn match, tear-gassing, arresting and molesting the trekkers.” Narrating the many clashes between the group and security agencies, he said, “The general public could recall the grave atrocities committed by the Nigerian Army in Zaria in December 2015 where more than a thousand followers of Sheikh Zakzaky were killed. Ever since then, the Sheikh, his wife and numerous others are under illegal detention. “In like manner, last year the Army killed more than 50 trekkers in Abuja during Arbaeen trek. We condemned all forms of tyranny and urged the public to unite and challenge oppression, the way Imam Hussain did during Yazid, as tyranny and humanity are mutually exclusive.” With the constant bloody clashes with security agencies, there have been calls for dialogue with the federal government to end the festering animosity. But Suhailah Ibrahim Zakzaky, daughter of the embattled IMN leader, said on Monday that only her father has the right to initiate dialogue with the Federal Government. Although the case between the Shi’ites and the government is in court, Suhailah said the government should dialogue with El-Zakzaky if the authorities are interested in peace. The group has continued to reject the terrorist label pinned on it by the federal government and which led to its prescription a few months back. Denying the terrorist tag, Suhaila said: “We are not the ones attacking the government. But on the contrary, we are subject to tyranny, oppression and aggression. We are only practising our religion as we understand it. So if the aggressors decide to stop the aggression and instead of dialogue with us, then we are ready to do so, under the directives of our esteemed leader, Sheikh Zakzaky.” Also, the Sisters Forum of the Islamic Movement recently raised the alarm that 23 of their girls are still in custody the custody of the Army and the following the December 2015 attack on the group in Zaria. The Forum urged President Muhammadu Buhari to order the release of the girls who the group said are languishing in detention in spite of life-threatening injuries sustained by some of them. The Sisters Forum also called for the release of Sheikh El-Zakzaky, his wife and some of his followers that are still in detention. Zainab Zakariyya, who spoke to reporters in Abuja on behalf of the Sisters Forum, said: “We would like to inform the general public that the families of 705 people that got missing over the course of the December 2015 massacre in Zaria are so anxious to have their missing children back 46 months after. Neither the Nigerian Army nor the Police is saying anything about the missing persons or their whereabouts. Even more distressing is the case of the 23 girls that were kidnapped. These girls were taken in broad daylight.” Continuing, she said: “Most surprisingly, the stage-managers of the massacre, particularly President Buhari, on whose table the buck stops, are keeping mum, and their flinty silence is quite deafening. Thus, from the orchestrators down to the killer-cum-arsonist troops and undercover agents, no one wants anybody to be informed about the fate of the missing people. But, if anything else, the government’s silence acquiesces to more conspiracies in the offing. “Nigerians and the international community are well acquainted with this massacre, where more than 1,000 innocent men, women, children, the aged and infants were killed within 48 hours in Zaria. Even pregnant women and nursing mothers were not spared; some were burnt alive, others gunned down, and the victims buried in mass graves so as to do away with conclusive evidence of the war crimes.” However, security sources who spoke with The Nation on the saga said the government will never succumb to the antics of the IMN over any procession or protest anywhere in the country, especially in Abuja. They said the government would not fail in its duty to protect lives and property. One of the operatives, who spoke with our correspondent on Wednesday, said: “The IMN should abide by the law and what the government wants. Their activities always result in violence. Look at what recently happened in Abuja where a senior police officer, a corps member and many people lost their lives during their protest. The Presidency has given strict orders to security operatives to act accordingly and not to take anything for granted. The Inspector-General of Police and other top security chiefs have also been briefed by the President on this issue. No group is bigger than the government.” To drive home its point, the government has drafted security operatives to flashpoints in different locations within the capital city, with orders to promptly quash any protest by members of the group. The question on the lips of many residents of the capital city is, when will the face of the end?