The misusages discussed in this edition are no less interesting than the ones earlier treated. And, to be sure, we can never exhaust the raft of observed misusages, especially as we come across countless more day in day out. The few we can, we will discuss, hoping to arouse sufficient awareness about the need for correct usage and to guide readers to be more sensitive to the phenomenon; hence, the consideration here of some more lexical bedlams arising from careless misusage. The world over Some mangled versions of this idiom we often see are: all the world over; in the world over; the world all over; and the world over. Below is one of such mutilations: It is not done in the world over. In the world over is incorrect usage. Correct usage is the world over, which is itself an abridgement of the full idiom the (whole) world over, meaning “everywhere in the world” (“Pop” Errors). Writers of TV and radio news bulletins should mind the clarification here, because, in our experience, they seem most prone to the gaffe examined here. Maybe they care less because they can always get away with it when such is served in the hypnotizing, mellifluous voices of their newscasters.  For clarity, see the correction below: It is not done the world over. Per/each If you thought these words were simple and familiar, wait for the lexical embarrassment that follows: Obama will help 10 million indigent students with a $10, 000 tax cut per each student for parents. According to “Pop” Errors, ‘This is syntactic chaos. The words per and each cannot be used together because they connote the same meaning in the context at issue. While each is “used to refer to every one of two or more people or things, when you are thinking about them separately,” per is “used to express the cost or amount of something for each person.”. Correct usage is thus either per student or for each student.’ And the book spells it out, thus: Obama will help 10 million indigent students with a $10, 000 tax cut per (or for each) student for parents. Personnel If there is any banana peel for writers, it is uncountable or mass nouns. Officialese has not helped matters, as writers in official circles misuse them with indiscriminate abandon. They are thus among the most notorious propagators of such errors, security actors in particular. Here is one such, of security provenance: We have 300 personnel of combined forces for this operation. The above is typical of armed forces dispatches. If we excuse them, we shouldn’t, as a general rule, excuse other writers, lest we condone the propagation and perpetuation of errors. “Personnel is not a countable noun, so it is wrong to talk of 300 personnel.” It refers to “the people who work for an organization or one of the armed forces.” Let the armed forces consider this: We have a 300-man contingent of combined forces for this operation. Pluralizing noun phrases and compound nouns This is one matter that deserves special attention, because, when faced with the tricky challenges of pluralizing noun phrases or compound nouns, many writers simply resort to their own rules or whatever lexical manipulation suits their whim. In the statement highlighted below, the writer ran into syntactic barb wires with the simple noun phrase pillar head. Particularly in peace-keeping operations, international development work, the world of international non-governmental organizations and the like, pillars are clusters of responsibilities for executing certain programmes, and for well-coordinated operations and accountability. The pillars are headed by senior officials; hence, the term pillar head. Pillars heads presented reports The author of this statement has just bungled his effort to pluralize the term pillar head by simply adding s to each of the words that constitute the noun phrase. That is because even good writers tend to find it extremely difficult to pluralize such terms. Terms of similar morphology that often fall victim are: head of state; chief of staff; chief of section; commander-in-chief; officer-in-charge and so forth. The rule is: pluralize the principal word in the noun phrase or compound noun (Murthy, as cited by “Pop” Errors). The principal word in the noun phrase pillar head is head. So, we apply the rule to the problem, and the plural of pillar head emerges as indicated below: Pillar heads presented reports. Add to that, these: Chief of staff – chiefs of staff Head of state – heads of state Head of mission – heads of mission Chief of section – chiefs of section or section chiefs Commander-in-chief – commanders-in-chief Sergeant-at-arms – sergeants-at-arms Officer-in-charge – officers-in-charge Permanent secretary – permanent secretaries Head teacher – head teachers Potential The issue concerning this term is the rampant confusion of potential and potentials, as depicted in the specimen incorrect usage below: We do not make provisions for bringing our children to their God-given potentials. This violates the rule which says, “When used as a mass noun to refer to the “latent qualities or abilities” of a person, as in this statement, the noun potential is not to be pluralized. However, you could pluralize it when using it as a count noun, as in the potentials of a new technology (Oxford Dictionary of English/AmazonKindle, as cited in “Pop” Errors). Here in this instance, we have in mind the “latent qualities or abilities” of children: So, we correct thus: We do not make provisions for bringing our children to their God-given potential. 