James Azania, Lokoja  The Wada/Aro Governorship Campaign Organisation has called on the people of the state to despite no more, saying that the November 16 governorship election will end all hardships meted on them by the All Progressives Congress-led administration. The Director of Public Communication, Wada/Aro for Kogi, Comrade Austin Usman Okai stated this on Saturday in Lokoja, following what he described as the mass reception and solidarity extended to the team in the capital, on Friday. According to him, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Engr. Musa Wada will end the persistent non salary payment of workers and pensioners in the state, adding that the era of suicide by Kogi workers is over He lamented the plight of Kogi workers and pensioners under Yahaya Bello’s administration, under the guise of endless screening and verification exercise. He said the new administration of Wada/Aro in November will guarantee prompt payment of workers in the state, as well as other entitlements. He expressed shock that Directors, Deputy Directors and even Permanent Secretaries came to their various offices in Kogi on Okada, for lack of payment of salaries and monthly imprest. He urged the workers to summon courage, not minding the threat of job loss and threat to life, to come out en masse by November to vote for Wada. Okai said that Kogi civil service have been bastardized by the current administration, while permanent secretaries were denied opportunity to ascend further in service. He said the Director of Accounts were not left out, but that instead of retiring after 35 years of service, the government is offering them Special Assistant on finance of their various MDAS. He described the current trend as a means to casualise workers at all levels and preclude on the job growth in the civil service in the state, rendering them useless in career development. “With the new administration of Wada/Aro in November, the ugly trend will naturally give way to rapid and unhindered career development in the civil service “It is very sad seeing that state workers can’t afford to pay hospital bills, domestic bills and basic necessities of life, leading to surreptitious deaths and suicidal activities. This trend must stop,” he asserted. 