A senior Lecturer in the Department of Mass Communication, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, (RUGIPO), Ondo State Mr Sunday Afolayan, has urged members of the institution’s Press Council (a body of student journalists in RUGIPO) to practise journalism within the framework of law to minimise hazards in their duties. Afolayan spoke as the week-long Press Week held on the campus. The yearly event featured tour to Fresh, 105.9 FM in Ibadan, a campaign tagged: Walk against suicide, as well as a novelty match, among other activities. Afolayan defined campus journalism as the ‘practice or act of gathering, processing and disseminating timely information within the four walls of an institution in order to satisfy the curiosity of other students on a public discourse. Speaking on the theme: ‘Campus journalism; Hazards and benefits,’ Afolayan said campus journalists cannot succeed in an environment where students are poorly informed by the activities on campus. He encouraged young practitioners to deviate from writing stories that could damage the hard earned reputation of the institution. Equally, Afolayan admonished them to report objectively and accurately, adding that this would boost the credibility of the media in RUGIPO. “The major roles of campus journalist is to inform the  students, educating the practitioners and the  school community through  publications, entertaining the audience, correcting the ills and social vices on campus and promoting the school culture,” Afolayan added. Afolayan explained that many journalists are bedeviled with intimidation from different angles. He Afolayan continued: “Intimidation can come from the school management which may deprive them from writing against ills on campus. “Also campus journalist may be subjected to censorship as the freedom of the press will be tampered with. “Any publishable stories will have to pass through the desk of the school management, to determine which one is good for publication and which one not publishable. “The management of any institution will always want publications that will boost the image of the institution. Other injurious information might not be allowed to go. This is because management knows what can build or destroy the image of the institution is in the hands of journalist which is your pen. “You are grooming yourself for the future. The reward may not be in monetary form but could sharpen your skill and intelligence which will fetch you more fame and wealth in the future. Afolayan said the practice of campus journalism could be hindered by factors ranging from dearth of funds, poor writing skills, management hostility, phobia for writing, poor reading culture among students, hatred, and negligence.