Omolola AFOLABI Veteran thespian Hafiz Oyetoro, popularly known as “Saka”, led other seasoned professionals and pro-gender enthusiasts to advocate against societal gender inequalities at a conference for social well-being. The symposium, which was held at the Lekki Conservation Centre, Lagos, was also headlined by broadcaster, Ekene Ezeji; Sandra Egboro, a lawyer, and The Nation newspaper, Evelyn Osagie. The importance of an all-inclusive society that is free from gender-based violence and prejudice was the focus of the event, themed “Society And Gender-Based Abuses”. It was organised by author and teacher at Chrisland International Schools, Festus Okwekwe. The two-prong programme, comprising an unveiling of the poetry collection by the convener, entitled: “Second-class Breeds”, also featured interactive session, diverse poetry renditions/performances, book/art exhibition and a tour around the pristine conservation centre. While speaking on the roles film play in social redemption, Oyetoro, recalled the death of his colleague, Ronke Sounde, who died as a result of marital abuse. Admonishing the participants to desist from unwholesome cultural and religious practices that undermine the value of any human person, he said: “Film, because of its didactic, informative and entertaining quality, can restore confidence in the victims of abuse and serve as a caution to intending abusers. It is, therefore, a constructive instrument for ensuring a redeemed society”. According to the convener, the event was meant to sensitise the public on the evils of gendered violence on the individual and the society at large. Holding the conference side-by-side his book presentation and the poetry performances by different poets, he stated, was intended to highlight the significant role creative works play in bringing attention to the ills in the society. Okwekwe said: “Just as the conference sought to address issues like sexual abuse, domestic violence, child grooming, negative cultural practices and gender equality among others, its theme was necessary to engineer collaborative efforts, active partnership in the participants. “The meaningful conversations expressed by the seasoned speakers inspires innovative ideas and actions that the public and government can borrow a leaf from. It is hoped that after the programme would re engineered a changed view towards gender equity. Furthermore my book, “Second-class Breeds”, is written to reshape and correct wrong notions generally accepted and believed by the society, such as what women represent in humanity.” For Ezeji, who is also a lawyer, “Gender Imbalance (Among Others): certainly, a conversation worth having”. Egboro, however, highlighted the position of Nigerian laws on domestic violence; while Osagie, who is also known on stage as “Evelyn D’Poet”, spoke on “Ending domestic violence through cultural reorientation: art/media in focus”. According to her, achieving an overall social well-being has been a major global challenge faced by different generations; and the arts and the media have been strong tools for social change. Osagie also serenaded the audience with her poem, “Women Arise”, which had its maiden performance at the American Consulate, Lagos – the theme of the poem is provocative and seeks a true social change. While calling for a united front by the women against all forms of human rights violations, she encouraged the audience to hold hands in a united stance and raise their voices against oppression as they re-echoed some lines from her poem. She said: “What we do in our little corner of the world goes a long way to change our world. Writers and the media have a huge role to play towards achieving social change. There is no force as compelling as the unified voices of angry women,” she said. For Mrs Brenda Unu, who read the book review, “Second-class Breeds”, is set on the experience of the African woman and her sacrifices to keep kith and kin. “Okwekwe in this collection again adopts a voice that is often characteristic of women poets in appreciating the heroism of women in the face of patriarchy. Through personal and collective experiences, he shares on the challenges of women and tries to re-echo women’s voices through the landscape of African literature. “He tries to soothe ruffled female feathers and presents a call for reform. His poems are attempts to pacify women in particular and persuade the society in general on some wrong notions commonly accepted and believed by the society. Okwekwe obtained his first degree in English and Literature from the University of Benin where he served as the Assistant Coordinator of Creative Writers’ Workshop for two consecutive sessions and later as a the Coordinator for a session. He won his first poetry prize, the Lagos State Echonews’ Poet of the Year Award in 2006. He works as teacher, an editor in Lagos,” she said. The conversations sparked off commendation from students, parents and teachers, especially of Chrisland International Schools.