Thanks to one particular WhatsApp group among the countless others I belong whose subject can range from nothing to just about anything under the sun, I found myself in a long drawn debate over the state of the nation, with particular reference to our institutions vis-à-vis the civic responsibility of the citizen, and the interplay of the two in the current morass in which the country has found itself. The particular forum, appropriately named Lagos- Ibadan Road Update, created in the wake of the on-going construction works being undertaken by the German firm, Julius Berger at the Lagos end of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, not only sought to provide regular, periodic updates on the hellish traffic situation to group members but for members an avenue for engagement on wider range of issues. For yours truly, the chat group has since become a must – a daily companion for the most part of the nearly four harrowing weeks on that traffic corridor. As one might imagine of such groups, discussions, more often than not, tend to veer into the railing against just about everyone deemed complicit in inflicting the needless pain on the “innocent motorist”: the federal government, the police and the traffic management agencies, and of course, the construction company – Julius Berger. It is as one might expect of the typical Nigerian Public Square where rules are not only expendable but readily dispensed with. If you discount the indulgence – by some- for disinformation, the penchant to trade fiction for facts, the bombasts, the uncivility of the language deployed to drive arguments, you probably have enough left to make sense of any issue in focus. And so it was that the chat group suddenly erupted on Sunday afternoon. This time, the big news was that the contractor, Julius Berger, had allegedly dug a giant canal on the alternative earth road known to have provided some succour in the last four weeks that the closure has lasted. What could be the basis – many had wondered? To some, the move was to discourage impatient motorists using the bye-pass to cut their ordeal even as it always turns out, that they end up further complicating the nightmare down the road. The big question was – whodunit? Was Julius Berger truly responsible? No one could be sure. A giant earth moving equipment allegedly sighted in the vicinity moments before the act would seem to suffice! Time it was once again, to call out the company for its ‘wickedness’, atrocious speed, indifference to the agonies of the road users and its evident lack of social responsibility given the scale of dislocation that have attended the construction job. Having been on the road for more than three years now, could the company not have made better plans not to talk of mobilization? How come, many ask, that JB couldn’t work 24 hours? Are they not being paid? This wasn’t the JB they knew; the one they knew would not only work 24/7 but at breadth-taking speed! The ranting went on and on… I perfectly understand the outbursts given the needless pains forced on the commuters on that stretch long arguably as the nation’s busiest traffic corridor.  If you have had the experience of enduring a minimum of four hours of stress in the terrible traffic in the course of eight hours work, you’ll probably understand not just the basis of their frustrations but why their anger is justifiable We must agree that Julius Berger has made a mess of the job. After all, it has been four weeks of hell on the highway. True, we may not have seen Nigerians dropping dead on the highway at this time; the same cannot be said of the slow, instalmental death which will surely come in the fullness of time. I mean, it would not matter if in the end, the stretch is paved with gold; the idea that a construction company in this day and age, could dispense with the niceties of good corporate behaviour and robust community relations/engagement obviously says a lot about how much premium the company places on the citizens. Ever heard of a doctor putting a patient through the rigours of a major surgery without anaesthesia? But that is what JB does to Nigerians! Yet, there is a sense in which our anger is misdirected. In treating Nigerians the way it does, Julius Berger may have in fact stretched outlawry to the limits; nothing however compares with the criminal indifference of Nigeria’s absentee government. Nigerians are supposed to be grateful that the government is finally minded to deliver the road; nothing, it would appear, matter after. The needless death and the public health issues from the lack of attention to details of planning and management are simply taken as necessary derivatives by a government that would rather mouth change than give it practical meaning! But then, if the Works Ministry is indifferent, the police, the FRSC and the other agencies of government deployed on the road are worse than pathetic. Good thing that they have not – at least not yet, set up tolling points; they have neither the sense of duty nor the understanding of what their duties demand at a time like this. When they are not indifferent to lawbreaking, some have proven to be abettors of indiscipline – the chief reason why chaos rule on the road.  Forget professionalism; we are yet to see evidence on display on that small stretch of the highway. At best, our uniformed men are mere bystanders! Nigerians are truly an impatient lot; not only that, they are certified wailers. They complain about everything under the sun – from the crass incompetence of their institutions to the legendary insensitivity of their government. The truth however is that they are no less complicit in condoning bad behaviour. Imagine how the antics of a few people, driving against traffic at peak traffic periods, turns the entire scene into bedlam. The next thing you hear is let him go – without so much as a demand for penance for the pains inflicted on other road users or the thought that this might constitute an incentive for others to follow the bad example. The trick is to tolerate and complain later! I would wager than a good number of motorists would readily present as a good case for the shrink. That is what the scale of chaos suggests. More than that however, it takes a high degree of permissiveness for bad behaviour for the chaos to endure. It is part of the intriguing mystery of how our society still manages to function – albeit minimally as a structured human entity. At best, the agony daily experienced on the Lagos- Ibadan expressway is a window into how we have sunk as a nation. Happy Independence Day celebration!