Since 2009, no presidential election has been overturned by the Supreme Court. Deputy News Editor JOSEPH JIBUEZE recalls how other challengers fell at the last hurdle. It is always an uphill battle to overturn a presidential election at the Supreme Court. Challengers and their supporters are always hopeful – typically optimistic – that their appeals would be the first to be upheld. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its standard-bearer in the February 23 presidential election Atiku Abubakar may have been buoyed by the historic ruling by Kenya’s Supreme Court in 2017. It was the first in Africa. The re-election of a sitting president was annulled. A new vote was ordered to be held within 60 days after the court found that the outcome Kenyan election had been tainted by irregularities. But Atiku is not the first to fail at the last hurdle. Analysts say it is always difficult to prove widespread irregularities at the Supreme Court. Judicial watchers agree that the Justices are not only concerned about strict law; there are social and political stability considerations at play in deciding whether to remove a sitting president. It is always an uphill task for any challenger. Following the return to democracy in 1999, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Olu Falae of the defunct All People’s Party (APP) contested against Chief Olusegun Obasanjo of the PDP in the February 27, 1999 presidential election. Obasanjo scored 18,739,154 votes to beat Falae, who polled 11,110,287 votes. Dissatisfied, Falae challenged Obasanjo’s victory. He urged the Court of Appeal to hold that Obasanjo, being a member of a secret society, Ogboni, was not qualified to contest. He said Obasanjo was also adjudged guilty of treason and treasonable felony by a tribunal. In the lead judgment read by Justice Dahiru Musdapher (now retired), the Court of Appeal dismissed the petition in its entirety. On the allegation of irregularities and malpractices, the Justice held: “No evidence whatsoever was offered in proof of these allegations….” Falae opted not to pursue the matter further. In 2003, Obasanjo was declared the winner of the April 19, 2003 presidential election. Dissatisfied, Muhammadu Buhari, then of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), challenged the result at the tribunal. The Supreme Court, on July 1, 2005, in a unanimous decision of a panel of seven justices, upheld the Court of Appeal judgment, and dismissed Buhari’s petition in its entirety. In heading for the Supreme Court in 2005, Buhari’s hope may have been raised by a minority Court of Appeal judgment by Justice Sylvanus Nsofor (now Nigeria’s ambassador to the US). Justice Nsofor held: “I find that the substantial non-compliance with the mandatory electoral law amounts to no election…The petitioner (Buhari) shall, therefore, be entitled to the reliefs sought. For all these, this petition ought to succeed and it succeeds accordingly. May Nigeria never and never again see a black Saturday like April 19, 2003. The presidential election is hereby nullified by me.” Then came the 2007 election. At the end of his tenure, Obasanjo backed former Katsina State Governor, the late Umaru Yar’Adua, as his successor. In the April 21, 2007 presidential election, Yar’Adua won with 24.6 million votes. Buhari, then ANPP candidate, and Atiku, then Action Congress (AC) candidate, challenged the result. On December 12, 2008, the Supreme Court, in a split verdict of 4-3, dismissed the petitions. Then Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Idris Legbo Kutigi, his successor Aloysius Iyorger Kastina-Alu, the late Justice Niki Tobi, and Musdapher (who also became CJN), dismissed the Buhari’s appeal and upheld Yar’Adua’s election. Former CJN Justice Maryam Aloma Mukthar, Justice Walter Onnoghen and Justice George Oguntade (rtd), gave dissenting judgments, holding that there was substantial non-compliance with the Electoral Act 2007, which vitiated the election. In the lead judgment, the late Justice Tobi held: “For the avoidance of doubt, I am not saying by this judgment that all was well with the conduct of the Presidential election conducted in 2007. What I am saying is that there was no evidence…to dislodge section 146 of the Electoral Act. In the sum, the appeal fails and it is dismissed. “Accordingly, Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan are the President and Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Differing with the lead judgment, Justice Oguntade (now High Commissioner to the United Kingdom) said: “The inevitable conclusion I arrived at is that the failure of the first respondent (INEC) and the Chief National Electoral Officer, Prof Maurice Iwu, to use serialised ballot papers bound in a booklet … shows that the 2007 presidential elections were not conducted substantially in accordance with the principles of the Electoral Act 2006. “In conclusion, this appeal succeeds. I hold the view that the failure of the first and second respondents to comply with section 42 (2) of the Electoral Act…is so grave that the said elections ought to be nullified…”I annul the Presidential Elections in Nigeria held on April 21, 2007 and order fresh elections within 90 days from today.” Following Yar’Adua death on May 5, 2010, Jonathan served out Yar’Adua’s tenure and stood as PDP candidate in the 2011 presidential election. Buhari was his main challenger, then of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). Buhari alleged widespread electoral malpractices and rigging in the 2011 general elections. On December 28, 2011, the Supreme Court in a unanimous decision, dismissed CPC and Buhari’s petition and upheld Jonathan’s victory. In a seven to zero ruling in favour of Jonathan and the PDP, the apex court declared that even where irregularities occurred during the election that gave Jonathan a fresh four-year term, the CPC and Buhari failed to prove them. Justice Olufunmilayo Adekeye, who read the lead judgment, said: “The judgment of the lower court is affirmed and consequently the third respondent (Goodluck Jonathan) …won the election conducted on 16 April 2011.” Reacting to the judgment, Buhari said: “This Supreme Court has proved no better than the Supreme Courts of 2003 and 2007…What happened in this year’s 2011 elections eclipsed all the other elections in the depth and scope of forgery and rigging.” Jonathan chose not to challenge the 2015 general election result. He conceded the election to Buhari, who was sworn in to succeed him on 29 May 2015. Jonathan said in a statement on March 31, 2015 that “nobody’s ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian”.