Damian Duruiheoma, Owerri  ONE of the most wanted killers and armed robbery suspects in Owerri, the Imo State capital, Chukwuebuka Esoga, aka Kaka, has said he took to crime in order to withstand constant intimidation by bad boys in the state. Esoga, 21, with an alleged  member of his gang, Kachi Nwalolo, also 21, and 11 others, were paraded before journalists by the state commissioner of police, Rabiu Ladodo. The suspect, who sustained gunshot injuries, said before he joined the gang he was always suffering at the hands of some boys around Douglas Road. “Intimidation by Owerri people led me to crime,” he said. “They were always intimidating me and taking my goods on Douglas Road. Everybody seemed afraid of them. So I decided to join one of the gangs so as to stop them, since being a hard guy is what people respect.” He requested that his mother be brought to him so he could apologise to her for not being “a good boy she had always wanted me to be. “Please call my mother for me. I want to apologise to her for not being a son she wanted me to be. Please bring my mother to me, I want to apologise to her”, he begged. CP Ladodo said the gang was operating in army and police uniforms, using taxis and buses. Ladodo added that apart from being armed robbers, the suspects were known for killing and abducting innocent persons. He said that apart from being on the police wanted list, the suspects had also been declared wanted by the state government. According to him, the arrest of the suspects was a major breakthrough for the command. The CP expressed optimism that residents and traders at the busy Douglas Road and other adjoining roads and streets in Owerri would now be able to have some relief. Some of items recovered from the suspects, Ladodo said, included guns, a Glo SIM card and three MTN SIM cards. “I present to you Imo’s most wanted armed robbers and serial killers in recent times. I am happy and walking tall because of this wonderful breakthrough. I commend the SARS commander, Victor Godfrey, and his team for an exceptional job. “The suspects have made confessional statements about their involvement in robbery and killings. We seek cooperation from members of the public in our commitment to fighting criminals to a standstill in the state.”