Olaitan Ganiu  AS WORK continues on   Oshodi-Apapa Expressway much to the delight of residents and commuters, an appeal has gone out for pedestrian bridges to be built at strategic places to ease the movement of people crossing the busy highway. Pedestrians are suddenly finding very high medians where they usually walked across to both sides of the expressway. At Iyana Isolo, for instance, there is no pedestrian bridge to access both sides of the expressway. One of such road users, Mrs Toyin Williams, on Thursday lamented that the demarmation is too high to climb. She said, “See as the pavement stained my cloth; this is not nice at all. It took the help of two men before I could jump over, it is like climbing a mountain.” Williams appealed to the state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to build bridges over those places Iyana Isolo. The Apapa-Oshodi Expressway is a federal project, which is why the Ministry of Works is handling its rehabilitation. But residents especially pedestrians are grappling with immense difficulties accessing the other side of the major road. They seem to think first of their state governor, rather than anyone else. A student of Lagos State Polytechnic, Isolo campus, near the Iyana Isolo, said, “I just want to appeal to our governor, to build an overhead pedestrian bridge to save lives.” Recently, a Lagos lawmaker, Mr Jude Idimogu also pleaded with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to construct a pedestrian bridge at Toyota Bus Stop, near Iyana Isolo Idimogu, a two-term lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly said the bridge, which would connect the popular Ladipo market, will save lives of residents in the area. “The kind of accidents and human lives that are lost in the area makes the bridge crucial. This place needs a pedestrian bridge and the former governor promised that it would be done. I just want to use this medium to appeal to the current governor, since governance is continual, to ensure the construction of a pedestrian bridge at Toyota Bus Stop on Mile 2-Oshodi- Apapa Expressway.