 A FEDERAL High Court in Lagos on Tuesday sentenced a South Africa returnee, Raji Issa Adio, to 38 years imprisonment for drug trafficking. Adio, 43, returned to Nigeria in 2017, before this year’s xenophobic attacks. Since September when 502 Nigerians came back home from South Africa following the attacks, a few of them have been reportedly caught on the wrong side of the law. Earlier this month, one was reportedly arrested in Enugu on charges of armed robbery. Not long after, another returnee was held in Lagos for allegedly robbing a man of his laptop computers. Justice Chuka Obiozor convicted Adio after nearly two years of trial. Prof Obiozor found him guilty of three counts of conspiracy and unlawful possession of 5.10 kilogrammes of heroin. The judge said, “The prosecution has been able to establish all the allegations as contained in the charge against the convict beyond reasonable doubt”. He sentenced Adio to 15 years imprisonment on counts one and three, and eight years imprisonment on count two. The sentences will run concurrently, meaning Adio will spend only 15 years in jail. The judge also gave the convict an option of N1.5 million fine on counts one and three respectively, but no option of fine on count two. The sentence will take effect from September 3, 2017, when Adio was arrested. The convict was arraigned by the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on December 7, 2017. He pleaded not guilty. During the trial of the case, NDLEA counsel, Mrs. Juliana Imaobong Iroabuchi, called witnesses and tendered 13 exhibits, including the drugs seized from the convict, his international passport, test analysis of the seized drugs and foreign currencies. Adio defended the charge through his counsel, Chief Lilian Omotunde. The NDLEA in the charge marked FHC/L/429c/2017, stated that Adio was arrested on September 3, 2017, during an inward clearance of a South Africa Airways flight to Lagos, at the E-Arrival Hall of the Murtala Mohammad international Airport Ikeja, Lagos. It said Adio concealed the heroin in the false bottom of his two travel bags. He was also said to have on or about September 2, 2017, while in South Africa conspired with one Segun and Eddie, both resident in South Africa and now at large, to import the banned drug to Lagos, Nigeria