Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) member Dr. Oluyomi Finnih, in this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, speaks on the zoning controversy, the challenges before the Sanwo-Olu administration and how the governor is tackling them, and other issues. How do you feel over Buhari’s victory at the tribunal? President Muhammadu Buhari won that election point blank. I am very delighted that we won at the tribunal. To that extent, all that we need to do is to move the nation forward without going to the Supreme Court. It is certain any further litigation will cause some distractions to the progress of the country. So, it will not be wise to spend useful time on court cases. I think we should think of how to make the country better, instead of further engagement in court cases. Do you expect Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to appeal the judgment? I am not a lawyer, but based on evidences before the tribunal, which I equally followed, there is nothing to be achieved beyond dragging the matter unnecessarily. To me, it is unnecessary and if Atiku Abubakar still has the ambition of ruling, he should look beyond now and project into 2023. He should look forward and stop looking at what happened in 2019. As far as I am concerned, the 2019 election has been won and lost. He should accept it and look forward. What is your view on zoning presidency? The country is a conglomeration of nationalities and the constitution recognises the different ethnic nationalities. That is why we have institutions like the Federal Character Commission and others. They will cater for every interest and make everybody have sense of belonging. Now, if the party has agreed that the presidency will be rotational, it has to be followed. And if from all indications, the choice of the next President is outside the Northern zone and it should be the turn of the Southwest in 2023, why not? Anybody arguing against that is not fair to the party, the nation and the politicians. How will you assess the performance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his first 100 days? You must understand that politics in this country is often etched on mudslinging and character assassination. Government has enumerated what it has done within 100 days. I am sure government has published all it had done. And that is why we, GAC members, are there to advied the governor. And from all records, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has done well. The PDP is just playing politics because what the government had done is in public domain. I don’t think it is right to start criticising, when available records showed performance. If you don’t feel like commending the administration, why don’t you keep your mouth shut? When you look at what he is doing at Apapa road, the clearing of drainage system and canals and roads rehabilitation, you will actually see that work had been done. Again, how can you start judging someone within 100 days in office? Honestly, what the man had done so far is quite commendable and government is doing very well from all indications. Quite honestly, the foundation for performance had been laid, we saw what Asiwaju Bola Tinubu put in place, what Fashola and Ambode put in place, I must say that development has been so rapid. I have no doubt that things are happening greatly in Lagos and it would move faster in due course. I have no doubt that at the end of the day; Lagosians will have reasons to celebrate. Do you think Lagos State governor is running an inclusive administration? I know there have been some background grumblings, but the truth is that you cannot transfer whatever aggression you have to another person. Politicians have quite a lot to give because it is not what it used to be. Nobody is exempted from the present administrations. And let us face it, if for instance in Lagos, where we have 25 million people and we want to choose 45 people as commissioners and special advisers, you must have a choice. You cannot please everybody because if you want to please everybody then you will not form your cabinet. I believe this is one of the problems facing some states in picking thier cabinet. They do not want to offend some people in the choice of picking cabinet, but not all will make the cabinet. That is what leadership is all about you must be ready to take decisions. Do you think Lagos State House of Assembly should probe former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode? It was not that Ambode was not allowed to contest, but it was that he was not allowed to enjoy automatic ticket. He had the opportunity to contest, he did contest and to that extent, it was the choice of the people that won. I am sure to that extend, he was satisfied that he lost the primary. So, whatever that was in the paper that the assembly is opening his file, I have not bothered to ask. Do you think the present administration will live up to the expectation of Lagos residents? As it is today, I believe that government is moving quite greatly. So far, he has shown signs of greatness to our party. He has taken  grassroot development as part of his responsibilities and has been consulting as well. These are some of the things that were problematic during the last administration because no matter how busy you are as governor, you have got people to deal with. So, you must mix with them and it is as simple as that. I believe the present governor has learnt a lot of lessons from the past administration. Why did Ambode fail to get a second term? That is certainly incorrect. At this level, what do you expect any governor to give to me? People have a way of interpreting things, it is important to know that there was a primary election and if he lost at the primary that is not the responsibilities of elders of the party. He has the opportunity of contesting and nobody stops anybody from voting for Ambode. If he lost the primary, it was simply the case of choice. Again, at no time were our followers complained against what happened. So, the GAC members did not remove Ambode from being the governor.  Perhaps it would not be fair for us to give automatic ticket because members are clamouring for internal democracy. There should no longer be imposition, let people go and contest their primary and if people are satisfied this way, so let it be. Everybody is talking about internal democracy and it is important that we listen to what the people are saying. 