Adebisi Onanuga  AN Ikeja Special Offences Court on Thursday sentenced an Islamic cleric, Afa Awojobi Ganiu to two years in prison for defrauding a United States-based businesswoman, Mrs Oluwatoyin Akinwole of N37.6million. Justice Mojisola Dada convicted Ganiu following a plea bargain agreement after being re-arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) before the Court. Ganiu, who was arraigned alongside a self-acclaimed oil marketer, Adesanya Olufemi Paul, pleaded guilty to an amended charge of stealing and obtaining money by false pretence. The duo were alleged to have defrauded the businesswoman, leaked her nude pictures on social media and thereafter reported that she committed suicide by jumping over the Third Mainland Bridge, Lagos in 2017. When the charges were read, during yesterday’s proceedings, Ganiu, who was the second defendant, pleaded guilty However, the first defendant, Paul, maintained his not guilty plea. The Alfa was thereafter convicted after he pleaded guilty to two out of four count amended charges of stealing against him. Ganiu’s counsel, Goddy Osuyi, in his allocutus, told the court that the second defendant has pleaded with the nominal complainant, Mrs Akinwole, to accept the property, a four bedroom flat, worth N13 million. He said  Ganiu was now sober and has truly repented. Delivering her judgement, Justice Dada noted that as part of his plea bargain agreement, Ganiu has agreed to forfeit a property, a four-bedroom flat he acquired as a proceed of the fraud. Justice Dada also noted that the convict was initially arraigned on November 8, 2018 and the prosecutor, S.O. Daji, had already called four witnesses to testify against him. “I have listened to the allocutus of the second defence counsel, Goddy Osuyi, and have also considered the plea bargain agreement before the court. “The second defendant is hereby sentenced to two years imprisonment as agreed in  the plea bargain. “The prison sentence should begin from the day of his remand by the court on November 8, 2018. This is the judgement of the court,” she held. It would be recalled that the businesswoman, in her earlier in her testimony told the court that her nude picture was extracted from her phone, put on social media. She also claimed that they framed her suicide story simply to deter and frustrate her from coming after them. She said, “My father even suffered stroke after seeing my nude pictures online. “They deceived me into believing that I would get a 150 per cent profit after a month of investment. “They kept extorting money from me on the claims that the ports needed more money to perfect the transaction before releasing the oil. This made me borrow huge amounts from friends just to make the deal work”. Narrating how she found out about the scam, the businesswoman told the court that one of Paul’s workers called her and informed her that the defendants never invested her money in any oil business but rather used it to buy houses and exotic cars.  