One way to ensure food security in the country is top galvanise concerted efforts towards supporting agribusiness, the Agriculture Group of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has said. Making this charge at the weekend was the Chairman of the LCCI Agric Group, Mr African Farmer Mogaji. Mogaji, who was the convener of the 2019 maiden edition of Agribusiness Africa Conference, held in Lagos, “We are trying to bring the private sector at small scale and medium, such that they can put in the right structure and we can get the sector moving forward. We plan to work with our participants for a period of three months to seek out the people who are serious that we can sail together. We want to serve as an umbrella body to help, most especially those youths ages 18-40 who need information and network. We plan to do within three months and then scale up with the few ones that qualify. “I don’t support how the border was closure to import of agricultural produce was implemented, however, for every adversity comes an equal or greater opportunity, provided we can find it. The border closure is going to create an initial challenge for food distribution and availability, however, if the private sector launches into it, that gap will be closed, so yes, the government has closed it, but we need to step in now. If Nigerians don’t jump into it, foreigners will and then still take it out after making money. This conference is our way of encouraging people to buy local, grow together and make profit together.” He pointed out that agriculture is not like other sectors and so, stressing the need to work the ropes as they lack coaching and mentoring. The Executive Director, Alder Consulting, Mrs. Subomi Plumtre, stated that with the African Free Trade Agreement, a lot of markets have become open adding that it was time to build a distinct identity and brand for agribusiness products, companies or organisations. She encouraged farmers or agribusiness professionals to go beyond just doing the quality work that they are doing and build a reputation especially online, attend conferences and build networks beyond Nigeria and attract funding that can be used to scale beyond Nigeria.