BY OUR REPORTER •The NLNG board should vary its judges next time The Nigerian Literature Prize has just been awarded for the children category, and this is perhaps the time for reflections on the tone and direction of what is regarded by many as Nigeria’s most important literary accolade. The choice of the winner of an award is not always expected to enjoy the consent of all, even in the high tower of the literary establishment. The Nobel Prize, regarded as the top prize in the world, has generated a lot of controversies for decades. This year alone, the choice of the Austrian novelist and playwright, Peter Handke, for the 2019 prize has drawn a firestorm of criticisms across the world for his endorsement of a tyrant. It also was condemned for its Eurocentrism. The recent Booker Prize, Britain’s preeminent accolade, also attracted some odium for choosing two instead of one winner. Some have seen it as pandering to racial balancing, a thing Margaret Atwood, a co-winner, subtly hinted at in her acceptance speech. Yet, the way a panel is constituted plays a great role in selecting a winner. The two prizes may not have got it right all the time, but they have tried to work on their  panel of judges to ensure fair choices as winners. In the Nigerian story, the problem has been a lack of variety in its choice of judges. For most part, it has narrowed itself to the ivory tower to pick the assessors. It tried to tweak it a few years ago by choosing a foreign consultant, who tends to bring a set of values, basically Western, to the evaluation of literature, which is essentially a cultural expression of universal truths. Academics should not be turned away from the panels, but they should be just one or two, while a majority should come from a broad section of society. The enterprise of storytelling is not the forte of literature teachers alone. Literature  is too important a matter to be left in the hands of professors of literature. A novel, a poem, or a play, is in the public domain, so the Board of the Prize, funded by the NLNG, ought to reflect a variegated world, or society. The Nobel panel is not made up of academics alone. There is only one professor in the committee, Anders Olsson, who is the chairman. The other three are writers, and they include Per Wastberg, Kristina Lugn and Jesper Svenbro. They have experimented with outsiders, whom they described as specialists, like the 31-year-old Mikaela Blomqvist, Rebecka Karde, both of whom are critics and Gub-Britt Sundstrom, a journalist and writer. The Booker Prize judges include writers, an editor, a journalist and even a composer. They include Liz Calder, a former fiction publisher and editor, Xiaolu Guo,  a novelist and film maker, Afua Hirsch, a journalist, broadcaster and former attorney and Joanna McGregor, a composer, pianist and recording artist. This sort of choices makes the prize winner a better reflection of society’s high taste. We are in no way calling for the dumbing-down of the prize, for there is a temptation to think so. We are aware that around the word, the mass of readers may not know how to distinguish high and low, or slip-shod output. But when the board chooses men and women of high taste, or of proven engagement and track record of appreciation of good writing, it will be hard to dispute, and we know the board has the capacity to do so. We are not calling for a Nollywood-style populism, but an interaction between town and gown of the highest tradition. Making it only an ivory tower affair leaves Nigerian literary assessment only in the hands of theorists, who may even be set in their ways, and may not recognise edgy experimentation or fierce elevation of form and theme. A writer writes, so he or she can judge as a writer. So does an editor whether of books or journal or the newspaper. So does a seasoned broadcaster. So does a fine artist. We cannot say a professor of software is a better judge of technology than, say, Bill Gates, or an agricultural scientist is necessarily better than a farmer on tractor. We call for a variety of judges for a more informed choice.