As Grace High School Gbagada clocks 25 today, Executive Director of the school, Mrs Iyiola Edun, has called on the government to reduce taxes private schools have to pay. Mrs Edun said at a briefing last week that rather than see schools as profit-making entities, the government should regard them as partners playing a complementary role in education service delivery. She said: “Government should check multiple taxation of private schools. Most schools if run properly, are still  broke by the end of July.  Smaller schools do not pay August salaries.  We provide our own water, electricity, security.  We spend N550,000 every five days on diesel.  We have school buses that have to carry about 11 different documentations – like radio/TV licence, emission etc.  The Federal Inland Revenue Service harasses us – if the school is registered as a limited liability.  They have been checking our accounts. “Government should see us as partners in progress.  In developed countries, they actually give private schools subvention because we are doing what the government is not doing.” Regardless of the challenges faced running the school, Mrs Edun said it had achieved a lot in its 25 years of existence. “We have achieved a lot because a lot of our students have gone on from here to fantastic universities all over the world.  They are holding down fantastic jobs.  We are celebrating excellence, resilience – that we are still here in Nigeria and have not run out,” she said. Mrs Edun said Grace High School started as a form of protest when many pupils of Grace Children School, its 51-year old primary arm, could not get into the Federal Government Colleges, aka Unity Schools, despite meeting the cutoff marks because of the quota system. “When we started the high school, it was like a form of protest.  Then most of the children aimed to get into the Federal Government Colleges but we found that some of the children with high marks could not get in because of the quota system.  Someone with two per cent from Zamfara would be admitted while someone with 60 per cent from Anambra would not get in,” she said. To mark the 25th anniversary, Mrs Edun said the school would hold its prize giving day today and a thanksgiving service/reception on Saturday.