Before the commencement of sitting at 9am, the courtroom was filled with lawyers and politicians. Notable among them, included APC’s National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, leader of a pro-Buhari group, Wakili Sarkin. From the camp of the PDP were its Chairman, Uche Secondus, it Vice Presidential Candidate Peter Obi, a chieftain of the party Ben Obi, former Foreign Affair Minister, Tom Ikimi and PDP’s spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan. All the politicians sat on the same side of the cort, unlike what always obtained in politcal cases where supporters of opposing parties sit in opposing directions. Many had anticipated a lengthy court session, but when the proceedings were brought to an abrupt end less than an hour after the lawyers adopted their briefs, the appellants’ camp appeared dazed, while the respondents’ camp erupted in jubilation. Speaking after proceedings, Olanipekun (Buhari’s lawyer) praised the court and commended lawyers in the case for their mature conduct. He said: “We want to appreciate and commend the Supreme Court for rising up to the occasion. That is the way it should be.The Judiciary has done well. “We, as counsel, have done our best. That is, counsel for all the parties have tried – both counsel for the appellants and counsel to the respondents. “But we, as lawyers, this is how far we can go, and I cannot say anything more than that.” Fagbemi (APC’s lawyer) noted that the decision by the Supreme Court had brought a final stop to litigation over the last presidential election. He said: “The chapters, paragraphs and lines, having to do with the 2019 elections, especially the presidential election has been laid to rest, until 2023. It has been a night of the long knives, but we thank God it ended peacefully. Lawyers in the PDP and Atiku’s legal team, Mike Ozekhome (SAN), said they would await the reasons and grounds on which the court dismissed the appeal. “At least, today, the baby has been delivered, not aborted. even if the baby is malfunctioning, that is not the issue. The point is that the baby has been delivered. “But, what manner of baby is it? What ingredients make up the being of the baby? We do not know yet. Those are the reasons the Supreme Court said they will tell Nigerians and the world for dismissing this appeal for lacking in merit,” Ozekhome said.