From Sam Ibok A natomical Society of Nigeria (ASN)President Prof. Theresa Ekanem is seeking the enactment of a law, which will license medical schools to acquire and use cadavers (dead bodies) for research and experiment. Ekanem made the call at the Senate Chamber of the University of Calabar (UNICAL) during ASN’s 16th Scientific Conference/General Meeting. The conference was themed: “Anatomy education: Implication for national development.” She said the law was necessary in view of difficulties encountered by anatomists in acquiring cadavers for experiment. According to her, ASN is already working on the amendment of the 1993 Anatomical Act to ensure licences are obtained to open departments of Anatomy. Ekanem, who is also the Deputy Provost of UNICAL College of Medical Sciences, decried the method by which cadavers were acquired in the country. She called for sensitisation of the populace on body donation. She said: ‘’The method by which we acquire cadavers is questionable. In the just-concluded International Federation of Association of Anatomist in London, United Kingdom, the issue of body donation was suggested and we must start sensitising the populace on body donation. ‘’Will this be accepted in our African culture and background? We need to amend the old law and ensure that licences are obtained to open departments of anatomy.’’ Ekanem described anatomy as a life science that has evolved with time alongside other sciences. He noted that anatomy curriculum had been reviewed to include entrepreneurship. She appealed to universities yet to implement the use of the new curriculum to do so, adding that graduates would benefit from the entrepreneurial courses. She recalled how UNICAL started the BS.c programme in Anatomy with the objective of training teachers to fill the lacuna caused by brain drain and lack of qualified teachers in the field. The institution’s Vice-Chancellor  and chairman of the occasion, Prof Zana Akpagu, described anatomists as ‘’critical stakeholders’’ in the medical profession. Represented by his deputy (Administration), Prof Lucy Udida, Akpagu said his administration was happy with the exploits of anatomists, describing their contributions to the health sector as ‘phenomenal’. The keynote speaker Prof Blessing Didia, who also spoke on the theme, described anatomy education as a vehicle for national development. According to him, about 1000 anatomists are trained in the country yearly, saying there is the need for the state-of-the-art facilities to advance anatomy education in the country. Didia urged anatomy educators on curriculum review. Didia said advanced economies have abandoned the traditional approach for a system-based and problem-oriented clinical approach to anatomy education, necessitating a curriculum that is adaptive to changing job market realities. Presenting a paper on the topic: ‘Anatomy Act: Present and future’, a lawyer and guest lecturer Nyekema Iyamba, admired the courage of ASN in its commitment to championing the cause of looking for an enabling law to regulate the practice of anatomy in Nigeria. The lawyer said the scope of the practice of Anatomy in the country had widened, new circumstances and challenges arisen, adding that the legislative arm of government should take a closer look at the laws regulating the practice of anatomy and to review it.