By Alao Abiodun  As controversies continue to trail the recent revelation of the BBC Africa Eye Sex-for-grades investigation, Ransford Gyampo, a professor of political science at the University of Ghana, has vowed to sue the BBC over its sex-for-mark video documentary. Gyampo, who was implicated in a 13-minute video documentary released, described the documentary as an entrapment, insisting that he was never involved in the act. He said the documentary could not establish anything against him. According to him: “I have been counseled to be silent on a matter of entrapment masterminded by a certain unscrupulous people, with the aid of BBC (African Eye) against me. “I have a lot to say about this matter. But I am suing the BBC for defamation tomorrow, so I will keep some of the facts to myself for now. Similarly, The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has threatened to sue the management of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) if the accused lecturer is not punished. In a thread posted on Twitter, SERAP called on the university authorities to immediately suspend Mr Boniface within seven days or face legal actions. “BREAKING: We’re today asking the University of Lagos authorities to promptly & thoroughly investigate allegation of #SexForGrades involving senior lecturer, Faculty of Arts, & head pastor of a Foursquare Gospel Church in Lagos, Dr. Boniface Igbeneghu. “We’re asking UNILAG to immediately suspend Dr Igbeneghu pending the outcome of any investigation & to identify ALL lecturers allegedly involved in this illegality & bring them to justice. “If UNILAG fails to do this within 7 days, we’ll take appropriate legal action to compel them,” the advocacy group wrote on its Twitter handle. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar said he had just read the story, saying the action was unacceptable and must be halted. “I have just read the story on #SexForGrades across public tertiary institutions in many West African countries. “This is unacceptable, and requires systemic strategies to put a deterrence to such behaviour. “As a society, we cannot allow a trend that is psychologically abusive to young women to thrive. In fact, that’s a direct opposite of what a sound educational system represents,” he said on his Facebook page.