We all love our air-conditioning systems. However, experts suggest that unfortunately, the homeowners are often guilty of making expensive errors that cause significant damage to their HVAC systems. Proper awareness of these mistakes will not only help the homeowners extend the life of their air-conditioning units, but also save them loads of money that they have been spending so far on AC repair. The simple tips mentioned below can help minimize the repair cost of your air-conditioning system. Maintain the exterior unit:  The exterior unit or the condenser of an air-conditioning unit does a lot of hard work by extracting all the heat and dissipating it outside. These outdoor units are exposed to the elements of nature and need cleaning from time to time. Heat and humidity always put the air-conditioners through a lot of stress while cooling a space. The unit’s performance and efficiency can suffer even more if the condenser is not clean. There is no need to worry because cleaning the condenser is a remarkably easy task. A monthly visual inspection followed by hosing off the machine should be sufficient. If you are looking to clean the unit thoroughly, follow the steps mentioned below. Finally, please ensure that there is nothing in the vicinity of the condenser to obstruct its functional efficiency. Clean the registers and indoor vents: The logic behind this task is the same as the previous point. It is particularly important to clean the intake register because all dirt particles accumulated there will ultimately get circulated all over the system. Failing to clean the vents regularly will have a drastic negative impact on the home’s air quality. It also causes loss of system efficiency and the air filters to get dirtier. If you can see clumps of dirt around the vents, be prepared for a surprisingly high electricity bill. Use a microfiber cloth to clean the vents and use the butter knife to clean the tiny crevices. You may also remove the vents and soak them in warm and soapy water for a minute or so. Don’t forget to dry the vents before putting them back in their place. Put a shade for the condenser: Though all condensers are designed to perform in heat, they are more efficient when the heat is less. Please remember that anything that forces the system to work harder will increase its repairing needs for the future. Therefore, put a shade over the outdoor unit to protect it from excessive heat. However, the shade must not obstruct the top or the sides of the condenser. Change the air-filters: Air filters provide the much-needed protection to your air-conditioning unit again mold, pollen, dust, and debris. If the air filters are blocked, you may face lots of difficulties such as Changing air filters is a simple process that takes no more than ten minutes to complete. Therefore, do remember to change the air filters from time to time without fail. Annual system tune-up:  This is a critical component of any air-conditioner maintenance plan. This should include the following activities.  