In a country where there’s so much to worry about, there are some many negative situations that can drive one into a state of constant stress, anxiety or depression. As individuals, we must be proactive and careful about our well-being, and also find ways to take care of our body and mind. We all know that trying to live and maintain a healthy lifestyle in Nigeria is quite expensive. Everyone wants to take the easy way out. These are a few tips and tricks that can help you maintain a healthy lifestyle without spending too much: * Eat Balanced Diet – Eating a healthy, balanced diet is one of the core elements of self-care. Our bodies require sufficient nutrients and hydration to exist and be in the right shape. Our daily food choices affect our overall health. * Exercise regularly – Exercise is not just beneficial physically, but also mentally. Regular exercise can improve your physical health, decrease your risk for serious health conditions, help you feel better emotionally, improve your sleep, help you feel more confident and motivated. * Getting adequate Sleep – Many young Nigerians suffer from sleep deprivation. For some, it is inevitable; returning home from work or school late, waking up early to beat traffic. For others, they’re simply unable to stop tweeting or watching movies until its well past midnight. Regularly getting a good night’s sleep is proven to improve your mental and emotional health, increase your lifespan and keep you alert and sharp. * Spend time around positive people – The people around you have a huge impact on your life. It’s important to consider the people you’re spending time with, the same way you think about what you eat and how you’re exercising. * Avoid Smoking or drinking irresponsibly – One of the hazardous situations that is injurious to one’s health is drinking and smoking irresponsibly, it affects one’s life span such that the body system of such individual is badly affected. * Routine medical check-ups – This is so important. Always try to go to the hospital once in a while to see how your body is functioning and if you are living right. It could be every six months