Police in Ogun State have arrested a 56-year-old fake doctor for allegedly conducting an illegal abortion that claimed the life of one Kehinde Olakitan. The suspect identified as Salahudeen Jamiu was arrested on October 24 at his clinic, Mojisola Maternity Clinic, after the woman’s husband filed a complaint at Onipanu Division in Ogun State. It was gathered that the husband of the deceased received a call from her friend Dupe OdebAunmi that she was on admission at the clinic. Before he could get to the hospital, the suspect and his accomplices had reportedly evacuated his wife’s body and dumped it in a building near his residence. The widower filed a complaint at the police station which triggered a manhunt for the fake doctor and his eventual arrest. The Nation gathered that it was after the suspect’s arrest the man knew his wife, a mother of four, was pregnant and had proceeded to have an abortion without his knowledge. It was learnt that Odebunmi, a drug hawker, was the one who introduced the deceased to the quack doctor for the procedure but notified her husband after the woman had died. Odebunmi, according to a police source, claimed she was not aware the doctor dumped the woman’s body near her residence. The  husband, it was learnt, told police that after hurrying to the clinic, he found nobody there and was shocked to find the remains of his wife dumped close their home. Confirming the incident, police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said both the doctor and Odebunmi were being interrogated. He said, “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Onipanu SP Magdalene Adeniji received the complaint and detailed detectives to track the operator of the maternity centre who was on the run at the time. “Their efforts yielded positive results when the suspect was arrested on October 24. He admitted that he carried out an abortion on the woman who was brought by Odebunmi and that in the process she died. “He confessed that he was not a trained medical doctor, and that he learnt the practice from the the street. He also admitted to have dumped the woman’s body near her house out of fear. “The corpse has been deposited at the General Hospital Mortuary in Ota for autopsy. The Commissioner of Police Bashir Makama has ordered the transfer of the suspect to homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for proper action. “The CP also appealed to the public to always patronise qualified health providers whenever the need arises instead of seeking medical assistance from quacks.” Meanwhile, the police in Lagos at the weekend arrested a man for alleged murder of a-year-old baby Nana Isiaka. The suspect, Isiaka Ayobami, a resident of 2, Ayo Ijaiye Street, Isheri, was alleged to have thrown the toddler on the ground in a feat of anger, smashing her head. He was said to be a mentally unstable son to the landlady of the house the child’s parents reside in. It was gathered that the incident occurred at 7, Ayo Ijaiye Street, while the suspect and the child’s mother were having a scuffle. According to Lagos command’s spokesman DSP Bala Elkana, the case was reported by the child’s father Alhaji Garuba Isiaka around 7pm on Saturday. Elkana said, “The man reported that he received a call around 6pm while he was at Berger from his younger brother Alhaji Mohammad Isiaka that Isiaka Ayobami forcefully seized his daughter named from the mother and hit her on the ground. “The baby’s head was shattered and she died on the spot. The suspect was almost lynched by a mob but was rescued by policemen. He would be charged to court for murder.”