Two domestic workers, Isaac Etiene, 22, and Emeka Akpama, 37, have been arrested by detectives attached to the Federal Criminal Investigation and Intelligence (FCIID) Ikoyi for allegedly breaking into their employer’s safe and carting away $55,000, £20,000 and N1.4 million totalling about N30.6million. The incident occurred at the Chevron Drive Lekki home of businessman Chief Emmanuel Umeohia on June 29, The Nation gathered. Arrested alongside the duo were a man Rilwan Adeniyi, 31, who allegedly helped them to unlock the safe, and the alleged go-between Usman Wasiu, 47, who were said to have shared from the loot. Etiene, a cleaner, and Akpama,   chef, were alleged to have conspired with some others at large and overdosed their boss’ wife with a sleeping tablet before stealing the couple’s keys to commit the crime. It was learnt that the cleaner who has been in the man’s employ for about five months was the one who saw him come back with the foreign currencies before his journey. According to the chef, the cleaner was the one who informed him of the presence of an electronic save in the couple’s room before they planned how to steal the money. “After I prepared stew that morning, I crushed the tablet I bought from a pharmacy and mixed it inside her stew. I had gone to the pharmacy and told them I needed a drug to help me sleep and I was given the tablets. “So, after crushing it, I mixed it in Madam’s stew and one hour later, she passed out. We took the key from her and opened their door. We collected the key to the save but we could not open the save because it had codes. “So, Lanre said he knew someone who opens safes at Lagos Island and he called Wasiu who brought Adeniyi. “When we opened the save, we took all the money inside. It was $30,000 and £15,000 that we saw. We shared the money. My share was $10,000 and £5,000. The total money I got in naira was about N5.5million. I bought some properties and kept the rest in my account which the police have seized. “The cleaner and the man who opened the save also got the same amount as I did. It was Oga’s son that came back, saw madam where she was lying and called her husband. He also drove her to the hospital,” he said. Etiene who denied he was around when the crime was committed, admitted he told Akpama there was save in the man’s room and that the next thing he knew about it was the money he received as his share. He said he bought a tricycle, household items from the money and kept the balance in his account. Asked what he would have done if he were the man whose money was stolen, Etienne said “I will leave it to God.” Adeniyi claimed he only knew they were stealing from the man after he opened the save and saw the money, adding that he was given $10,000 but someone among them stole his share same day. Wasiu claimed he knew nothing about the crime, adding that Lanre was the one who gave him N79,000 for helping them bring Adeniyi to open a save. According to the police, Umeohia had told all his domestic workers to proceed on casual leave before he embarked on an overseas trip not knowing that they ignored his directive. “This is a case of conspiracy, attempted murder, stealing and entry into a dwelling premises reported through a petition to the office of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Force CIID Annex, Alagbon close, Ikoyi.