Uja Emmanuel, Makurdi There is an unusual tight security in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, as the Election Petition Tribunal delivers judgment today in the petition brought by the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime, against the election of Governor Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since the tribunal fixed October 7 for the judgment, there has been heavy security presence in major streets of Makurdi. Security personnel have been patrolling streets in the capital, especially the tribunal venue located on Kaahim Ibrahim Road, opposite Benue State Immigration Command. A police source, who pleaded anonymity, told The Nation that the police command had put in place everything to forestall a breakdown of law and order during and after the judgment. Governor Ortom has expressed optimism that he will win at the Election Petition Tribunal. The governor, who spoke at the weekend while addressing the expanded caucus of the PDP in Makurdi, said people, voted massively for him during the March general election, making it possible for him to defeat his closest rival, Jime, with a wide margin. He said PDP won the governorship poll, 23 seats in the House of Assembly, eight seats in the House of Representatives and three senatorial seats, an indication that it is the party to beat. Ortom said not satisfied, APC took him and PDP to the tribunal and listed over 670 witnesses, but only 58 testified, which he noted was a minus for APC. He said PDP would show its strength in the coming local government poll by winning the chairmanship and councillorship elections. Ortom urged PDP supporters to go to the hinterland and canvass votes for his party. PDP state Chairman John Ngbede said the party was on ground. He added that he would, however, not undermine the opposition parties during the local government poll, as PDP would soon start campaigning at the grassroots to seek votes from the electorate. While hailing the governor for ensuring good governance in the past four years, he advised him not to be distracted by the ‘opposition noise’, but should remain focused in delivering the dividends of democracy to the people. Ngbede said transparency would prevail during the council poll primaries, adding that zoning would be used to avert acrimony.