Adejumobi Oluwatosin, popularly known as Tosin Bee, is a gospel signed under One Halleluyah Records, a label owned by The Redeemed Christian Church of God. The minister whose career has grown over the years tells his story, in this interview with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN. YOU have become one of the sought-after gospel musicians in the country. How do you see this? I see it as a privilege. I believe there are a lot of people that can do what I am doing and even better, but I’ve only enjoyed favour and mercy from God. I believe it’s a privilege and I cannot thank God enough for the grace. Change is the only constant thing and if you refuse to change, you can never make progress. Considering where I started from and now, I can boldly say that I have evolved in every sense of the word. I may not be at the top yet, but looking back, the difference is clear. How did you discover your passion for music? I discovered my passion for music about 24 years ago. Then I had some friends that were good in music. We were always singing round the neighbourhood just for the fun of it. After some time, I discovered how much I had on the inside untapped. When I moved to Ilorin for Advanced Levels, I met some new friends who had interest in music too. Then, we were always singing about campus life just to get attention, especially from ladies, until one day when a lady advised me that I could use my voice for God. I was encouraged to join the choir in my church back then and from there, I met some new friends that connected me with  an interdenominational choir.  We went round Ilorin and a few cities ministering in songs before I moved to Ogun State to further my education at the university. While on campus, I joined the Redeemed Campus Fellowship (RCF) as a choir member. Eventually, I became the music director for the fellowship. At that point, I already had a picture of the fact that music ministry is where God wants me. After university education, I moved to Lagos and the rest is history. You are one of the artistes under the One Hallelujah Record owned by the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). How has the experience been? Let me first of all thank my father and mother in the Lord, Pastor and Pastor (Mrs) E. A. Adeboye for coming up with such a platform in supporting dreams and discovering talents. The initiative has helped people like me. It has been an amazing experience and the support has been immense. Personally, it has helped in many ways, but one that I must mention is more visibility. Pastor Kunle Ajayi has also played a major role in my career. He is like a father to me and he is always looking out for how we can be better. How many works do you have? I have an album and one EP. They are really making waves. I have some videos too. They are all over social media platforms. Which caucus do you belong to in the industry? I belong to Jesus’ caucus only. I belong to everybody and I belong to nobody. What stands you out among other gospel musicians? As I said earlier, I think the only thing I enjoy is grace and favour. I am not in any way better than anybody. I believe what makes me exceptional is the grace of God. It makes a lot of difference. Versatility is another factor; the fact that I can deliver by God’s grace any kind of music. I say it boldly that I have the best band in the world. They are a fantastic set to work with. I call them Beezle Nation. I have a music director who doubles as my manager. His name is Samuel Aliyu, who ensures everything goes very well. We believe God is excellence, therefore we must deliver excellently. Is it true that gospel music should not be for profit making but for strictly winning souls? Absolutely. However, it is important to note that as ministers, be it in word or music, it is important to treat them with honour, hence the word honorarium. This is the gift given to ministers when they are invited. It comes in cash or material gifts. When this is done, you are not paying them. You are only giving honour to the gift of God they carry. There are reports that some gospel musicians are interested in more fame, wealth and affluence of life than their goal of winning souls. Do you think so? The focus should be soul winning, compassion and love. Anything short of this is no longer gospel. This is the best way to identify a true gospel minister. If not music, what would you have become? Maybe a lawyer, I actually wanted to be a lawyer. How did you come about the stage name, Tosin Bee? My name is actually Adejumobi Oluwatosin. Someone who wanted to manage me, at some point, felt I needed a stage name. So, he took Tosin from my name and coined Bee from the last two letters of my surname. This was how the stage name came about and it has been an amazing experience with the identity. How have you been able to overcome temptations as a gospel musician? They have come in diverse forms, but I will say that the grace of God has made us overcome them without. It is not by my power or by might. What should your fans expect from you soon? A lot. We just held a gospel concert that rocked Lagos and it was an avenue for people to collectively join God’s generals to give Him praise and worship. Aside this, I have also diversified. I recently launched my clothing line called Switched Up. I am going to be pushing that to make sure it has a good footing. Also, I am going back to the studio for a song with a video production before the end of the year. 