1. Fela Anikulapo Kuti Fela and the Afrika ’70 released the album Zombie, a scathing attack on soldiers using the zombie metaphor to describe the methods of the Nigerian military. The album was a smash hit and infuriated the government, setting off a vicious attack against the Kalakuta Republic, during which one thousand soldiers attacked the commune. The Kalakuta Republic was burned, and Fela’s studio, instruments, and master tapes were destroyed. Fela claimed that he would have been killed had it not been for the intervention of a commanding officer as he was being beaten. Fela’s response to the attack was to deliver his mother’s coffin to the Dodan Barracks in Lagos, General Olusegun Obasanjo’s residence, and to write two songs, “Coffin for Head of State” and “Unknown Soldier”, referencing the official inquiry that claimed the commune had been destroyed by an unknown soldier. In 1984, Muhammadu Buhari’s government, of which Kuti was a vocal opponent, jailed him on a charge of currency smuggling which Amnesty International and others denounced as politically motivated
Baba 70 still remain in the heart of many Nigerians till today.  2. Charly Boy His most popular album was 1990 – the title was a reference to Nigeria’s corrupt military government which was expected to hand over power to civilians in that year, although civilian rule did not start until 1999). 1990 earned Charly Boy mixed reviews due to its political nature and caused national controversy, and a number of radio stations refused to play the title track. Despite this, 1990 was one of Nigeria’s best-selling albums of 1988, and Charly Boy was credited with using his music to stand up to his government, a lá Fela Kuti.
Charly Boy is known as an advocate of the masses as he has fought for the rights of the average Nigerian. He has on several occasions been tortured by the Nigerian police and the military for standing up to his country’s government. However he is also, on occasion, regarded as their friend, depending on the sensibility of those in power.  3. Idris Abdul-Karim (Mr Jaga Jaga )  In 2004 Abdulkareem released his third album Jaga Jaga, a Yoruba term for a shambles, declaiming corruption and suffering in Nigeria. The title track was banned from radio by President Olusegun Obasanjo, but continued to be played in nightclubs.[4] The album cover was by artist Lemi Ghariokwu, known for creating many album covers for Fela Kuti. In November 2005, Abdulkareem launched his own record label, La Kreem Music and released his fourth album, Letter to Mr. President. The album’s title track addressed Obasanjo’s criticisms of “Jaga Jaga”; the album also featured “Flash Up Unu Lighter”, a tribute to Obasanjo’s wife, Stella, who died while undergoing surgery in Spain, and the victims of the Bellview Airlines crash of October 2005.
He released a sequel to “Jaga Jaga” in January 2012 during the Occupy Nigeria protest against lifting of fuel subsidies. 4. Tuface Idibia  popularly known by his stage name 2Baba, is a Nigerian singer,songwriter, record producer and entrepreneur. We all know 2Face Idibia has always been very vocal about the state of the affairs of the country. It would be recalled that back in 2017, the music star announced a planned nationwide protest which actually didn’t get to see the bright of the day. According to him: “I will no longer be quiet. My partners, colleagues and I have come together to create a platform for Nigerians to communicate their real pains to government at all levels in a peaceful and articulate manner with a view to getting lasting solutions to our problems. This march is about demanding that our leaders connect with all the people in Nigeria.” He dissed Nigerian government in his music like “ for instance “…. Burna Boy, Ruggedman and Davido declared support for the legendary musician’s cause of leading a nationwide protest against the Nigerian government. 5. Abolore Adegbola Akande (9ice, Ancestor, Adigun, Baale, Bashorun Gaa, Hitmaker)  9ice went weird, e no even look uche face as he blasts the hell out of the “Change” led APC Government and those who led our dear country astray in the past for their own selfish interests. 9ice came out fearless, he voiced out for the common Nigerians at this time when many entertainers are quiet for God knows why.