The expectation of the average worker is to retire peacefully and enjoy the fruits of working with youthful energy. Investigation by The Nation has shown that many of states are not complying with the Pension Act. At the last count, only Edo, Kaduna, Lagos states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are the best states to retire in Nigeria, according to a report on state compliance by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Thus, the retirees in these places will have no problem receiving their pension benefits to take care of themselves in their old age. Section 1.3.2 Section 2 (1) of the Pension Reform Act 2004 (PRA), 2014 provides that Contribution Pension Scheme (CPS) should apply to any employee in the public service of the federation, the public service of the FCT, the public service of the state government, the public service of the local government councils and the private sector. The FCT is the most excellent and compliant state as it has a regular and up-to-date remittance of pension contributions for employees of the FCTA and Area Councils/Local Educational Agencies (LEAs). The state is also funding accrued pension rights and carrying out regular funding of accrued rights for FCTA and FCT Area Council. Most importantly, it has a valid Group Insurance cover for its workers. Kaduna also has regular and up-to-date remittance of pension contributions, is funding accrued pension rights consistently with five per cent of total monthly wage bill and has valid Group Life Insurance cover for its workers. Edo has regular and up to date remittance of pension contributions. The state is, however, not funding accrued rights and does not have Group Life insurance for its workers. Similarly, Lagos has regular and up-to-date remittance of pension contributions, funding the accrued rights of employees domiciled in an undisclosed commercial bank but has no valid Group Life insurance policy in place. In recognition of the significance of pension  to workers in states, PenCom has always advised state governments to key into the CPS. PenCom Acting Director-General, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar said at the Second Quarter Consultative Forum for States in Lagos that while states were at liberty to come up with their pension laws, the Commission is concerned that despite the collaboration, several provisions of the pension laws were not implemented by some states. She urged states to note that the hopes of prospective retirees in states were hinged on the successful implementation of the CPS, which was instituted in response to the failure of the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS). A senior pension official of the Kaduna State Pension Bureau, Dan Ndackson, said the Bureau started biometric data capture of retirees using its information technology (IT) infrastructure and personnel from November 2016. “With this initiative, the waiting time for retirees to be included in the pension payroll has reduced drastically to a maximum of one month after audit clearance, thereby saving the retiree the pains of staying longer after retirement without income. “The application deployed for this data capture is robust enough to permit diverse queries and reports to be generated from the database,” Ndackson said. Lagos scored another plus in pension scheme administration recently when it began issuing Smart Identification Cards to retirees. The Lagos Pension Commission (LASPEC), Director-General,  Mrs. Folashade Onanuga, assured the retirees of the government’s interest in the welfare of retirees. She said the state wants a better life for retirees and hence had ensured the automation of the LASPEC to enhance service delivery to the workers. She said: “The issuance of the Identification Cards is geared towards improving the longevity risk faced by the retirees as they advance in age.   The Identification Cards which will be issued to all retirees in Lagos State Public Service including parastatals of government and Local Government Councils will reflect details of the pension plan by each retiree and who the provider of pension benefits was.  The Smart Card is also designed to give the Commission an electronic monitoring of the activities of the pension providers. ‘’If a retiree’s pension is paid either through the programmed Withdrawal option offered by Pension Fund Administrators or through Annuity for life offered by Llife assurance companies, we will from the confines of our office, using their Identification Number, be able to monitor whether the pension providers are living up to expectation.  We remain committed to their welfare and will keep on developing a robust pension structure in Lagos State Public Service,” she added. Edo State Governor Mr. Godwin Obaseki said the migration of public servants to the CPS would forestall the accumulation of pension debts by the government. 