It was a day of fun at Balmoral Event Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, as children and parents thronged Nickelodeon family festival. The event, headlined by Patoranking, Teni the entertainer, Fireboy and Rema had the performing acts take their slots on the Nickelodeon stage to thrill the excited crowd. It was indeed a night of glitz, glamour, great music and slime. Their exhilarating performances set the venue in a delightful mood which had kids, parents and other music lovers engage in a sing-along. The venue was well lit with a relaxing ambience created by the Nickelodeon traditional bright orange colour. The excitement continued as children in attendance witnessed the arrival of their favourite Nickelodeon characters live at the festival. They  include SpongeBob Squarepants, Adventure Bay’s intrepid pups, Skye, Rubble Marshall and Chase from Paw Patrol, and everyone’s favourite genies, Shimmer and Shine and The Rise of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles who is performing in Nigeria for the first time. Moreso, celebrity guests such as Davido’s daughter Imade, Noble Igwe, Wizkid’s son, Boluwatife, Kemi Smallz, Sensei Uche, IK Osakioduwa, Osas Ighodaro, Dr Sid, BBNaija Ex Housemate, Sir Dee and a host of others were present at the event. NickFest host of the day, Mannie Essien and Amarachi Uyanne kept the mood alive with their spirited delivery. Speaking at  the event, Alex Okosi, Executive Vice President and Managing Director VIMN Africa, owners of Nickelodeon, said: “We are indeed grateful that our family-centric TV entertainment content was transformed to an event experience that has brought joy and entertainment to families. We have had an incredible show of support from parents and kids year after year and Nickfest in Nigeria continues to gain more fans.” Meanwhile, Teni, ahead of her new song titled, ‘Billionaire’, set for release on Friday is set to make three lucky people richer. On Monday, Teni took to Instagram to reveal that her team will be helping the selected winners to start up a business of their choice. “I’ll be picking three people that need help starting their business ventures,” she wrote. ‘Billionaire’ is produced by Pheelz Mr Producer. 