A PEEP into the kind of advice President Muhammadu Buhari will be receiving from his newly inaugurated Economic Advisory Council (EAC) was given on Tuesday as members of the team gave their views on the state of the economy It was at a commemorative event to mark the country’s Independence anniversary. “The Platform,” was organised by the Covenant Christian Centre, Lagos, led by Pastor Poju Oyemade. Financial Derivatives Limited Chief Executive Officer Bismarck Rewane and former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof. Charles Soludo, spoke on how to get the economy roaring back. Rewane and Soludo are members of the eight-man Presidential EAC. In his broadcast yesterday, the President spoke on his expectations from the team to turn the economy around. Other members of the team led by Dr. Doyin Salami are: Mohammed Sagagi (Vice Chairman); Prof Ode Ojowu; Shehu Yahaya; Iyabo Masha; and Mohammed Adaya Salisu. Speaking on the theme, ‘Re-designing the Nigerian Economy with New Ideas’, Rewane, an economist, said: “What our economy needs is a mental discipline to learn from the mistakes of the past. Our vulnerability has increased because we have not learned from the mistakes of our past and that of other countries.” Rewane noted that things outside the country’s control are more than things within its control. “When the institutions of conflict resolution are broken, the alternative to what you have is anarchy. The social contract between the rulers and the ruled is very important as it’s so cheap to just talk than to act. “What we have control over is our credibility and leadership. Social credibility over what we say is important because talk is cheap. Credibility does not come from what we say, but what we do,” Rewane said. Soludo, who said a friend advised him not to accept the presidential offer to serve because “there is no money there now (but) just a committee”, added: “The game of the future is “innovate, compete or die.” He said Nigeria needs to start preparing for a world without oil, which calls for innovation in diverse aspects of the economy. He warned: “We need to start preparing for 400 million people that will soon be upon us in a world without oil. We have been living on the life support of oil. When oil goes up, the economy goes up and when oil comes down, the economy comes down. “The misery that will befall us is to continue to churn out millions of semi-literate youths and largely unemployed citizens.”. Soludo called for devolution of power, which he said, means giving power back to the people. He said: “Our constitution, together with its command and control institutions concentrated at Abuja, was designed for and around the sharing and consumption of the oil rent. It is largely obsolete for the demands of a production economy without oil rent, which requires competitive and flexible rather than unitary federalism. “As the oil rent is tapping off, its internal contradictions have burst open, requiring a lot of survival mechanisms to keep the system afloat. But, for how long? “You cannot build a 100-storey building upon a foundation of an old bungalow. The new economy we need to build is a 100-storey building and we cannot put a 100-storey building on this foundation that has been laid for a bungalow. “A post-oil economy requires that agents maximise their fullest potentials, which would require a national rather than a federal response. You can’t clap with one hand. “What we need is a new national business model. You are designing good ideas and good plans without the underlying infrastructure to carry those ideas forward.” Soludo added: “These children in the next 30 years will be youth. They need jobs, they need education, they need water, they need housing. Twenty years time, the oil will be history. “Since 1992, we have implemented all kinds of plans all designed to diversify the economy, but we are still tied to the life support of the oil sector. If you want to change a persistent economic structure, you have to change the underlying economic institution. “Our greatest resource is human beings, but we are not going to export illiterates. The easiest way to waste the future is to continue to churn out illiterates and largely unemployed persons most of who see criminality as the only way to escape.”