The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has embarked on assessment of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) for public sector accountability. Leading the group’s members during the ‘Walk’ in Abuja, ANAN President Prof.  Muhammad Mainoma said the association had constituted a seven-man committee to assess the MDAs. Mainoma said the theme of the 24th Annual Conference of the association held in Abuja was “Nation building sustainable growth: Challenges and prospects”. He recalled that ANAN started the concept of “Whistle Blowing‘’ several years ago, saying the association discovered that it must put a system in place to monitor and assess MDAs. According to him, we have set up a committee to rank MDAs in order of performance in a bid to check corruption. “We want individuals to run away from corruption. Ours is to develop a nation where corruption will not happen. The kind of mechanism we are developing in our association is controlled mechanism. No individual should be in a place to start a project and complete it. Other people must be involved to avoid connivance,” Mainoma said. He explained that benchmarking is important in nation-building and also remains a pillar of the ANAN conference. “You cannot build a nation if you do not have love for the nation. You require a lot in terms of organisation. You require some level of capacity building. Knowledge is essential if you are talking about nation building,” he said. He called for sincerity of purpose on the part of everyone as all hands must be on deck in building a successful nation. “Bench Marking, Love, Organisation, Capacity Building, Sincerity of Purpose (BLOCKS). All that is required is BLOCKS for nation building,” Mainoma said. He, however, noted that a citizen must be energetic and healthy before thinking about nation building, “We do this ‘Walk’ as a symbolic presentation of all we do daily. You must be healthy to be in a position to help the growth of the economy,” ANAN president said. 