Okungbowa Aiwerie, Asaba  TWELVE teachers in Delta State have received cars and cash rewards for their outstanding performance. The awardees are: Asanuvwe Elizabeth, Owumi Onome, Omotie Phoebe (Best Primary School Teachers); Oyemike Andrew, Ogwara Gabriel, Esiedafe Doris (Best Head Teachers); Imarah Georgina, Eseimokumoh Charles, Ikeh Bridget (Best Secondary School Teachers) and Ominiabohs Adeline, Adiri Jonathan, Okolafor Fidelis (Best Principal). Governor Ifeanyi Okowa announced the rewards at a dinner and awards night organised by the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education in conjunction with Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) for teachers in the state to mark World Teachers’ Day in Asaba, the state capital. The award recipients were principals, head teachers and classroom teachers at public primary and secondary schools. Okowa urged teachers not to only teach but also develop the attitudinal and moral inculcations in their pupils. He said: “I want to congratulate the awardees and to let them know that the reward of teachers is not only in heaven. This type of recognition will touch the hearts of our teachers and make them to work harder in the development of our children. “The teachers, just like parents, play an important role in the development and upbringing of the child. “We need to continue to give care to our children and guide them aright because it is at this foundational level that we can mould their character. “We need to get the moral development of the children aright at this level so that it will be well with our nation.” The governor urged the awardees to redouble their commitment to upbringing up the pupils, reminding them that “teaching is a passion that genuinely flows from the heart”. He hailed the ministry for organising the event and the NUT for its support and partnership in improving the Education sector. Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education Mr Patrick Ukah said the awardees were selected from a process that involved over 49,000 teachers and pupils in 470 public secondary schools and 1,126 primary schools in the state. He congratulated the awardees, saying the assessment was done and vetted by a team of academics drawn from various tertiary institutions in the country. 