 THE Federal  Government has approved a policy that will hasten  end to gas flaring in the country and replace the use of kerosene in homes, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, said yesterday. He said the implementation of a new programme tagged: National Polic on  Methanol Production Technology  and Methanola Value Chain Implementation Programme in Nigeria,  is designed at adding value to the nation’s gas resources estimated at 199.09 trillion cubic feet proven reserves. Dr. Onu added that the policy has been approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). He said the policy will expand the chemical industry value -chain, replace kerosene as household cooking fuel, contribute to efficient and effective transportation system. He also said when fully implemented, the policy will lead to climate change mitigation, improve electricity generation, and in the process diversify and grow the economy. The minister spoke yesterday in Abuja, at a world press briefing on the National Policy on the Methanol Production Technology. He said when he assumed office in 2015, he had assured that the ministry will do its best to deploy science, technology and innovation (STI) to diversify and grow the economy.  This, he said is being done through the policy. “Recall that I briefed you on October 23, 2019 after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on the approval granted by FEC for the National Policy on Methanol Production Technology and Methanola Value Chain Implementation Programme in Nigeria, “This policy is aimed at adding value to the nation’s gas resources estimated at 199.09 trillion cubic Feet proven reserves (according to the Department of Petroleum resources (DPR) Annual Report, 2017), and expand the Chemical Industry value -chain, replace kerosene as household cooking fuel, contribute to efficient and effective transportation system, climate change mitigation, improve electricity generation, and in the process diversify and grow the economy. “This policy will create the environment for more investment in the oil and gas sector, particularly in the downstream sub- sector. It is expected that more Industries will be established to convert the gas that is flared on daily basis in the process of crude oil exploration to useful purposes. “Natural gas, which contains about 85per cent methane, a major source for the production of methanol, is usually burnt (flared) in the process of crude oil production. Several unsuccessful attempts have been made since the 1960s to stop gas flaring. This had never succeeded. Hence the Federal Ministry opf Science and Technology commissioned a team to work towards finding a way that our  nation can benefit more from the gas resources in the country.”  