THE Chairman of the Oshodi/Isolo Local Government in Lagos  State, Hon. Idris Bolaji Muse Ariyoh, has appealed to the residents of the council area to fulfil their financial obligations to the government. He said the prompt and regular payment of taxes and levies would enable the government to carry out its responsibilities for the benefit of the masses. “I am imploring our people to cooperate with the local government in the area of revenue generation. Your cooperation is of great importance in this aspect. On our own part, we gave out buses and renovated revenue offices to encourage our officers in their efforts to improve on revenue generation,” he said. Hon. Ariyoh said these during an interactive session, tagged ‘A Day With The Mayor,’ with the people of the local government area at the council secretariat in Oshodi, Lagos. Earlier in his keynote address, the chairman told the people to be free to ask probing questions and called on the youths to develop their potential in preparation for leadership positions in the nearest future as “you are the great leaders of tomorrow”. Hon. Ariyoh used the session to inform the people of his efforts to transform the local government area into a model for others in the country. He said: “We did a lot in the area of road reconstruction. The roads reconstructed are, among others, Arowojobe, Oludegun, Afariogun, Dauda, Alimi Oke, Olowora, Alhaji Rafiu, Abolaji, Osundeyi, Branco, Boladale, Temidire, Adisatu, Agoijaiye, Raji Abayomi, Sunmonu Abayomi, Baderin, Makinde, Odalume, Church, Liverpool, Mukadansi, Oshodi, Arowosegbe, Ajenifuja, Ogunoloko, Adeyemi and Oloko. We also provided street lights and drainages for the comfort of road users. “We developed many primary schools in the local government area by building classrooms. We also rehabilitated and upgraded many infrastructural facilities. One of these schools is Afariogun Primary School. “We renovated and upgraded Oshodi UNDP Vocational Institute, offices in the local government secretariat and area offices, Oshodi Marriage Registry and many others. “We are giving bursary awards; we provided school buses; we provided the solar system to light the secretariat area. “We are continuously embarking on developmental programmes in the areas of health, environment, empowerment, sport, security and many others, and proofs of our commitment to the welfare of our people are in every part of the local government area.” The well-attended session was organized by Pitch Communications under the leadership of Gbenga Soloki, a communication guru, human rights activist and strategist, in conjunction with the Media Office of the chairman. 