Despite recent reports of cracks in the Presidency, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has pledged his uncompromised loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and Nigeria. This was contained in a magazine entitled, ‘This is Nigeria’ and circulated at the 1st October 2019 Independence Day Dinner on Tuesday night at the old Banquet hall of the State House, Abuja. Osinbajo’s message with the title ‘Uncompromised Loyalty’ was contained in page 15 of the Brands International Special Edition of the magazine, which is the official magazine for Mr. President’s Next Level Agenda, 9th Assembly and One Nigeria, locally and internationally. The message reads “Vice President Yemi Osibanjo Commemorates With Nigerians On The 59th Anniversary Celebration, While Pledging His Loyalty To President Muhammadu Buhari “This day means everything to us as a people, because it is our day of freedom. Let me first congratulate my Boss,
President, Muhammadu Buhari,  His Excellency, Ahmed Bola Tinubu our National Leader, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, First Lady and mother of the nation. “Also, I celebrate every Nigerian out there on the street trying to make ends meet, not forgetting those who stand out in different areas of human endeavours, home and abroad.” He went on “Fellow Nigerians, be rest assured that President Muhammadu Buhari is totally committed to his promises and the Next Level Agenda. He is he best Boss and I find it thrilling to serve Nigeria under him. It is only responsible of me to give my unwavering loyalty to President Buhari and Nigeria as I promise to stand by him, while contributing my quota at all times to the growth of Nigeria. “I call on all well-meaning Nigerians to queue behind President Buhari as he leads us to build a stronger bigger and greater Nigeria.” he stated But speculations about the division in the Presidency was fueled by the recent replacement of the Economic Management Team headed by Osinbanjo with the Economic Advisory Council mandated to report directly to Buhari. The reported removal of government agencies from under Osinbajo, which he had been the board chairman, had also supported the reports of hostilities in the Presidency. The agencies included National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Border Communities Development Agency (BCDA), the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), National Boundary Commission (NBC), Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), and National Council on Privatisation (NCP). Also, the announcement on 1st October national broadcast of movement of the Social Investments Programmes (SIP) from under the Vice President to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development also fueled the rumour of crack in the Villa.