Justina Asishana  CLAIM: University of Ibadan (UI) College of Medicine ranks 4th in Africa, says news publication. FALSE: In the absence of a continentally accepted authority for rating African universities, we resorted to T.H.E. World University Rankings. The metric scale rated the University of Ibadan- College of Medicine as 6th in Africa. Full Text On September 12, a number of news publications reported how the College of Medicine University of Ibadan (UI), attained the fourth position in Africa in the World University Ranking. The reports claimed the assertion originated from the College Provost- Professor Olubunmi Olapade-Olaopa, stating he spoke with newsmen at the end of the Innovative Research Fair of the College. This fact check is necessary because of the rate at which people and youths rally for the best institutions with the aim of certification and future employment. Taking advantage of this, most tertiary institutions make claims to be the top in order to attract students to their institutions. Verification An extensive search on the World University Ranking 2020 rankings released on September 25 showed that the University of Ibadan is ranked between 501-600. The search was made on the World University Ranking. This was done owing to the fact that this was the source referenced by the Provost. The parameters used were “Medicine and Dentistry” and limited to the African region. Times Higher Education (THE) World University Ranking 2020 The Times Higher Education World University Rankings are a global comprehensive metric. Their performance tables judge universities across all of their core missions. These include: teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook. 13 calibrated performance indicators are used to provide the most comprehensive and balanced comparisons. This metric is trusted by students, academics, university leaders, industry and governments. The performance indicators are grouped into five areas: ● Teaching (the learning environment); ● Research (volume, income, and reputation); ● Citations (research influence); ● International outlook (staff, students and research); ● Industry Income (knowledge transfer). The top ten ratings of Africa universities offering Medicine and Dentistry, according to the World University Ranking are – 1 – University of Cape Town, South Africa ranked 136 2 – University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa ranked 194 3 – Stellenbosch University, South Africa ranked between 251-300 4 – University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa ranked between 401-500 5 – Mansoura University, Egypt ranked between 401-500 6 – University of Ibadan, Nigeria ranked between 501-600 7 – Suez Canal University, Egypt ranked between 501-600 8 – Beni-Suef University, Egypt ranked between 601-800 9 – Cairo University, Egypt ranked between 601-800 10 – Ferhat Abbas Serif University, Algeria ranked between 601-800 Additionally, findings from webometrics placed the University of Ibadan as 17th in Africa after the University of Ghana and 1233 worldwide. However, webometrics does not do its rankings by subjects. Its criteria are based on university presence, impact, openness and excellence. There is not a continentally accepted authority for ranking African universities. And as such, the results provided are very subjective. The subjectivity is evidenced by the disparities in the results provided by both ranking systems. Nonetheless, the Times Higher Education ranking system does not only have global acceptance but ranks universities by subjects. This makes it the most suited choice for verification. Conclusion In the absence of a continentally accepted authority for rating African universities, we resorted to T.H.E. World University Rankings. The metric scale rated the University of Ibadan- College of Medicine as 6th in Africa. Granted, disparities do exist in other metrics with respect to UI’s position; however, the World University Ranking system is globally accepted and rates universities by subjects as well.