A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Seed of Compassion Outreach (SoCo), is providing succour to people via its empowerment and donation programmes in the country and other parts of the West African sub-region. JOSEPH ESHANOKPE reports. THEY came from various parts of Lagos and Ogun states to attend the event, which held in Surulere with one aim: to acquire skills. But they got more than that. They received career talks on how to grow their businesses, cash and start-up kitss that would put their business on a sound footing. The 25 beneficiaries were trained on how to make perfume, Vaseline, hard soap and detergent, lotion and cream, air fresheners, as well as insecticides, among others, courtesy of Seed of Compassion (SoCo), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) based in Badagry, but with other support outposts spread across the state. On why she embarked on the programme, the NGO’s Founder/CEO, Pastor Benedicta Gbemisola Olagunju, said it was because it is more beneficial to let people have a means to an end rather than give them an end in itself. She explained that it is better to teach people fishing and they would have fish forever than give them fish all the time, saying she was touched by the level of poverty in the community and decided to contribute to its reduction and ultimately, eradicate it. The cleric said true religion meant helping those in need, a reason she adopted “Restoring hope to the hopeless” as her slogan. The group started 13 years ago as a donor body, donating cash and equipment to individuals and communities, such as pumping machines to farmers whose farms were flooded in Badagry, paying bills of patients at the National Orthopedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, donating books and materials to the Correction Centre at Idi Araba, Lagos and erection of boreholes. But three years ago, she branched into training. So far, she has trained over 250 people, with appropriate follow-ups on the graduates. On feedback, she said the alumni had given a good account of themselves, adding that none has either absconded with its cash or abandoned their businesses. The SoCo chief said she had been doing the humanitarian work alone but with support from her husband, partners and few well-meaning Nigerians. ‘’The government has not been supporting us,’’ she claimed. She, however, thanked her supporters for their assistance. Specifically, she praised Chaplain J. B. Olawepo, the founder of We Save and Care, an NGO, her representative in Nigeria, for his immense support. Mrs. Olagunju advised the beneficiaries not to give up, adding that successful businesses are not built in a day. Perseverance, creativity, tenacity of purpose, among other factors, she counseled, lead to business growth and survival. Two beneficiaries Prince Chinedu Wisdom and Mr. Edet Okon expressed gratitude to SoCo for the gesture, saying the training would give them a leeway in life. Okon, who had just come out of prison, said the training, cash and materials would give him a new life.