 Ekiti State Government on Monday assured stakeholders and citizens of the state of rancour-free and credible local government elections in the state on December 7. The government said it would not allow those it described as “trouble makers” to tinker with the state’s political ambience before, during and after the elections, in its efforts to ensure the council polls met international standards. The state’s Commissioner for information, Hon. Muyiwa Olumilua, gave this assurance in Ado-Ekiti on during a press conference heralding a sensitisation  programme on local government election  by the National Orientation Agency (NOA) in conjunction with the Ekiti State Government. Olumilua said a committee, the membership of which was drawn from strategic sectors of the government, had been set up to sensitise the people on the need to eschew violence during the poll. The commissioner added that the utmost aim of the committee was to ensure that Ekiti had a poll that allowed candidates of the interested parties to have a free and fair contest under which the votes of the people can count. Olumilua said: “We must have election that is free and devoid of violence and those plotting to cause trouble will be dealt with. “We are giving assurances that this election is going to be a clear departure from the past when the ruling party would have it all.  We are saying that we will get free and fair election that reflects the wishes of the people.” The commissioner said the committee was set up to sensitise the people to prevent bloodshed during the election, saying it was not intended to teleguide or usurp the responsibilities of the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). He said: “If anybody wins, the state has no problem about that. But I don’t think a local government election is worth the blood of any man. “SIEC has its own responsibilities and we won’t dabble or interfere in that. All we want to do is to tell the people that no bloodshed and that election must be transparent.” The committee, which comprises mainly government officials and NOA members, is to be headed by Olumilua .