A UK-based start-up telehealth company, Mobihealth International, has appointed the vice president of Olam, Mr. Ade Adefeko, as a non-executive board member. Announcing his appointment, the Chief Executive of Mobihealth, Dr Funmi Adewara, stated that she was excited and honoured to have Adefeko on board, given his very versatile and rich industry experience which will contribute to the strategic leadership of the organisation and help position Mobihealth for imminent growth. “As a start-up company, it was vital to find individuals to fill in gaps in our knowledge and experience. We need a board of well qualified individuals in their specific areas of expertise to create a diverse board that has the right skills, experience and track record of achievement needed to drive Mobihealth in becoming the leading telehealth company across Africa and internationally.” Adefeko brings a wealth of experience in the areas of government relations, policy development, angel investing and venture capital, communications and marketing, strategy and business development. Mobihealth is positing to be Africa’s leading integrated Telehealth company that will change the poor narrative of healthcare leveraging the explosive mobile technology growth across the continent. Decrying the massive efflux of doctors and nurses from Nigeria, Adewara says technology provides an opportunity to bridge the gap in shortages of doctor and convert brain drain to brain gain, ‘’given that majority of our doctors are from western countries trained to best standards of good medical practice but, importantly, Mobihealth also provides HIPPA compliant platform for African doctors in the Diaspora to give back to the continent and help reduce the impact of brain drain. We also have doctors in Nigeria who complement our services in cases where patient needs a further evaluation. We provide a complete package of care that includes prescription, diagnostics, treatment, follow up and home health, training and local capacity building. Our intervention will improve the time to diagnosis and treatment, reduce hospital congestions by 60% and limit exposure to counterfeit medicines and unqualified personnel.”