Former Africa’s 400m queen, Charity Opara Asonze (MON), in this exclusive interview with DESMOND EKWUEME, opens up on how her husband and fellow athlete proposed to her. She also speaks on how she was vindicated after being framed up in a drug scandal, how she was owed salaries for 22 years before the Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, came to her rescue with her appointment into the board of Imo State Sports Commission…Enjoy excerpts How did you get into athletics or do we say sports? I will say that sports has been or was in my DNA. I started from my primary school days. But I got noticed while I was running for my secondary school during the school inter-house sports competition at Obieziama Secondary School in Imo State. One of the athletics coaches at the then Imo State Sports Council, Chief Leo Ozurumba, just came to me after my race. He said to me, ‘you will run for Imo State and for Nigeria. You have the talent and determination.’ He later took me to the Sports Council and that was when it all started. I was about 12 years then. My break came at the Junior Championship in Kwara State, which was for national selection. I had a beautiful outing in Kwara and caught the attention of almost everyone including the national selectors/coaches. How did you settle for the 400m? When I was discovered by Leo Ozurumba, who later retired as director of sports in the sports council, I was tried in the short distance and also in the long distance by the coaches who then decided that given my attributes the 400m would be best for me. Who was your greatest rival on track? Hmmmm….There were two of them. First, there was Fatima Yusuf who was a thorn on my flesh. We were both home-based then. It was a tug of war between us. Fatima was a damn good athlete and a very hard trainer too….She was also a disciplined athlete who loved hard work. She gave me nightmares on track as much as I gave her. Our rivalry was a source of motivation for both of us. The 400m race was between us, until Falilat Ogunkoya-Osheku came from the United States. Fali, like we used to call her, brought with her finesse and gracious stride to compete with us. She suddenly became a major factor on the track. She was a great and dogged competitor….a brave heart who could go on and on. Fali added vigour to the rivalry which Fatima created, but in all we enjoyed the rivalry because we learnt from each other and above all, we saw one another till date as sisters on and off the track. Let’s talk about your ban, what happened? I don’t want to talk about that incident. It is better described as a witch-hunt but thank God for vindicating me and glorifying Himself with the final outcome of the show of shame. God proved me right and put them to shame. I was banned for four years for false drug charges alongside Tina Iheagwam. Truth is that I didn’t take drugs. I took the AFN to court to clear my name. The case dragged for years but I was determined to make the world see that some characters actually wanted to bring me down for reasons best known to them. Just at the point of getting the case trashed, the judge, Hon. Justice Onalaja, was transferred to Rivers State. But finally God proved Himself and His awesomeness. By the time the case came to an end, it was proved that I was only a victim of hatred and haters. You returned from the four-year ban to excel again Yes, after the ban, I returned straight to win a medal at the next Olympics because my ban coincided with the Atlanta 96 Olympics. Who was your best friend among your colleagues in your active days? Everyone was my friend. The way the national camp operated in those days made us all one big family. We saw each other as siblings and that helped us to perform excellently. But I must confess that the bond between Chioma Ajunwa and I was strongest then, and till date. Chioma was like my twin sister in the national camp. We relate till this moment. She is the one I shared and still share deep thoughts with. What’s your greatest strength on track? Hard work. Every training session was like my last on earth. There was the target of breaking and setting records before you. The coaches will remind you of getting your personal best time. At times, I even trained with the guys. This propels you to train daily as if your life depends on it. But truly, our lives then depended on athletics. So my strength was diligence. But I must add that once I remembered that I was running for Nigeria, it also drew inner strength for me. Let’s share some memories of how the national camp was in your active days Then we used to spend between eight months and one year in camp ahead of a major championship like Commonwealth Games, All Africa Games or Olympic Games. We trained twice daily. First from 4am to 12noon and then later in the evening from 4pm till 8pm. Tough training sessions with top quality coaches in charge. We were also placed on diet. Then, everything needed was provided for us even as we were strictly warned about what we ate. However, if you overfed, rest assured that you would burn it out on track. It was more of training and less of feeding then. That doesn’t imply that we starved anyway. We trained until we got used to it. By getting used to it, I mean you begin to enjoy every moment of it and you wouldn’t want it to end. You were Africa’s No.1 for some time, how did you do it? I was No. 1 between 1997 and 2001. As I said earlier, it was all about hard work. To be at that level, you must dedicate your life and career to hard work and training. You have to sacrifice leisure, comfort and relaxation. You must be ready to abstain from such things for as long as possible. I had my fastest time in 1998 Golden League in Rome. I did 49.29secs. Let’s talk about your husband, how did you meet him? My husband, Chief Innocent Asonze, is a former athlete too. He represented Nigeria in the 100m. His mates were Deji Aliu, Ezinwa brothers (Davinson and Osmond) and Olapade Adenekan and Francis Obikwelu who later took up Portuguese nationality, among others. We were like siblings in the national camp. We trained together alongside other national athletes. As at the time we were in camp, there was nothing like relationships nor affairs. We lived under the same roof for years. As a matter of fact, he was like my elder sibling because he was a family friend, being a bosom friend to my elder brother, Victor. He protected my interests in and outside camp. We later had same manager and representative, Giani Demadona, an Italian. We stayed in Italy together and moved around the United States and other parts of Europe going for championships and classics. One summer, we returned home from Europe. We were jogging one morning in Owerri in readiness for 1997 classic. Yes, it was in Owerri. We were jogging from Christ Church heading towards Wetheral road. He now called me and said there was something bothering his mind for long that he wanted to share with me. At this point, I got worried given our closeness. I was troubled because I felt my brother was troubled. We had finished jogging. I asked what it was. I was keen to hear him talk because I saw him as my elder sibling. And then came the shocker. He said, ‘I have been with you for years and we know ourselves deeply. I think we would make better couple. I have a deep feeling for you. Tried as I did to suppress it, I get more and more troubled.’ At this point, I became jittery because I never expected such. I asked him if he was joking or something. I asked him if he knew what he was saying and if he realised that I was his younger sister. I told him that I would assume we didn’t have such discussion and he shouldn’t talk about it again. I left him and tried to distance myself from him. But the more I did the more he got closer. When we returned to Europe after about three months, he approached me again when we went for lunch after morning training. He repeated the same words and, this time, he was emphatic and very emotional. He said I should think about it because the next time he would speak to me about it, probably it would be introducing himself to my family not as Innocent Asonze the family friend but as in-law to be. I was a bit confused at this point because someone, a police officer, to be precise, had been coming around anytime I was in Nigeria; even though I hadn’t given him my word. Few persons close to me knew the police guy who was very keen. Finally, my husband raised the issue again on our return to Nigeria in 1997. His seriousness was irresistible. That was it. The rest, like they say, is history. Today, we are happily married with an 11-year old son, Somtochukwu Favour Innocent. If you didn’t take to athletics, what would you have been doing? Perhaps, I would have combined business with working in His vineyard. You talk faith, how religious are you? Only God knows His own. But I must say that I would have been forgotten today if not for God. I will forever serve and worship Him. Let’s talk about your appointment as board member of Imo State Sports Commission. How do you feel about this appointment? Governor Ihedioha is God-send. He came to wipe away my tears and sorrow. You may be shocked to hear that the defunct Imo State Sports Council stopped my salary and entitlement for close to 22 years over flimsy reasons and excuses. At one point, they lied that I abandoned my duty just because I went to honour national call to represent my country….at another point they said I went on AWOL. All my moves and pleas from government to government fell on deaf ears. My letters and complaints were dumped in trashcans. But today, here I am as a board member of the newly constituted Imo State Sports Commission. It is the Lord’s doing because God has remembered my sufferings and cries. I must also appreciate my chairman, Chief Ndubuoke, who Almighty God used to bring me joy. God will continue to protect and bless my governor and chairman. So what are we expecting from Imo athletes now that you have come on board? Truth be told, sports in Imo have been revived through the appointment of Chief Nduboke as chairman of the Sports Commission. Before now, sports was dead in Imo State. We hope to improve with the National Sports Festival in Edo next year. We have experienced hands on the Commission like former Super Eagles captain, Nwankwo Kanu. So together, we hope to lift our sports. What is fashion to you? Fashion is your way of life. It is your statement. It is the way you feel like expressing yourself in all ramifications of life. For me, fashion is not just about dressing or makeup or jewelleries. It is about the way you speak, the way you carry yourself in public and the way you comport yourself among others. I don’t wear heavy makeup nor go crazy about clothes. I try to be as simple as possible. I also love to be very smart in appearance, may be because of my background as a former athlete. Is your son Somtochukwu taking after his parents as an athlete? It is his choice if he decides to do so but I must confess, he is showing more concern and interest for football.