Aside checkmating environmental hazards, wastes recycling and energy storage can raise the bar of Gross Domestic Products (GDP) in Nigeria if properly harnessed. While speaking relevant to this, the Chief Executive Officer, Recycling and Economic Development Initiative of Nigeria, REDIN, Terseer Ugbor, expressed that e-waste recycling can be a lucrative business, but this requires knowledge and the skills to efficiently recycle profitably. Ugbor, who spoke alongside other energy experts in Lagos during a Renewable Energy seminar tagged: “Energy Storage,” noted that, most recycling activities require subsidies and incentives because the costs of recycling usually supersede the cost of most waste products and that is why extended producers responsibility model has grown in popularity globally.” According to him, “the major challenge for waste recyclers relate to financing for recycling equipment and technologies.” While fielding question on how government can contribute to making the sector relevant, he said, “government has developed regulations for management of certain waste in Nigeria and has designed the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) guidelines, but higher enforcement will go a long way for achieving our environmental goals as a nation. We also think a well-managed green fund targeted at supporting clean energy access for underserved people and communities must be encouraged, while subsidies for recycling will go a long way for profitability and success of the sector.” Speaking on responsibility of end-users in recycling and waste management, he said, “Under the product stewardship and economy concepts, consumers or end-users of products must act responsibly by insisting on products made from recycled materials and are easily recyclable. “End-users must also separate and dispose waste appropriately, especially wastes considered hazardous to human health and environment. Examples of such waste are plastics, batteries, electronics and biomedical waste.” In his remarks, the Head, Energy and Environment Desk, AHK, Nigeria, Godwin Aigbokhan said, one of the greatest challenges that Nigeria could encounter with batteries after their shelf-life is inadequate collection and improper recycling. Speaking in the same vein, Helmut Kulitz, Deputy Head of Mission, The German Embassy, Abuja, noted that the continued development of dynamic storage systems is proving to be vital to sustaining renewable energy growth. Speaking on the 19th edition of the seminar series, the Deputy Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany, Alexandra Herr emphasised that, “the seminar series was not just an information hub but much more a platform for bilateral trade promotion.