National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS) is demanding from governments 20 per cent budgetary allocation to education in the 2020 budget. The students’ body believes this must be the starting point in her journey towards economic and social liberation. NANS said: “In light of the above, we demand 20 per cent allocation to education in 2020 fiscal budget from government at all levels. This must be done if our government is sincere about the development of this country. “Our education system is now a shadow of the good old days. Obsolete curriculum, dilapidated structures, failed managers and incompetent teachers now dot the landscape. In a statement, its National President Comrade Danielson Akpan insists the country is still in comatose going by the prevalence of poverty, social injustice, corruption, poor infrastructure, ethnic rivalry, dearth of entrepreneurship economy, and religious intolerance, among others. The students’ body lamented that the lofty dreams of the nation’s founding fathers have been eroded over the years through corrupt leadership, adding that national cohesion has been threatened due to flashes of dissent, bickering and strife. NANS said the country desperately craves unity beyond religion, ethnicity or political affiliation. It identifies ‘corruption’ at the centre of the country’s social and economic malaise, charging the leadership to renew battle against all forms of indiscipline. NANS continued: “Corruption is one cancer that has dwarfed our process and must be fought without sacred choices. “We cannot continue to pretend that this giant of a nation is not sleeping. At 59, we should as a nation strengthen our institutions of governance. “Nigeria cannot grow in a society filled with hungry and underdeveloped citizenry. The people deserve an economy that can project and protect their aspirations. Our laws and obedience to them will guarantee freedom for citizens and enhance their participation in governance. “The solution to our problems can be found if the leadership commits to serving the people and Nigeria as a nation. “NANS commends Nigerians for their resilience, sacrifice, patience and prayers over the years, expressing the belief that the nation would soon wriggle out of her predicaments if the citizenry remain committed to a united Nigeria. “Our roads have collapsed, hospitals abandoned, crops have been replaced with drugs, rodents now have comfortable place in our hospital wards, schools are now play fields. We should stop pretending, all is far from  being well,’ NANS added.