The Akwa Ibom state government has sought the Federal Government’s help in tackling flooding which is ravaging its communities. Commissioner for Environment and Petroleum Resources Mr Ekong Sampson said the state has over 1,000 erosion sites. He spoke during a tour of Utaewa, a fishing community in Ikot Abasi Local Government Area, which was hit by erosion. Sampson sympathised with the residents, expressing confidence that help would come. He said: “Our environment is threatened. Akwa Ibom is under pressure from the ravage of erosion and flood. “We have over a thousand flood and erosion sites in this state. So, that puts us under pressure”. Sampson said Federal Government’s intervention was necessary as the state does not have the resources to tackle its peculiar flood and erosion problems alone. He said the Udom Emmanuel administration was committed to tackling the flood problems in the state. The commissioner praised the World Bank for partnering with Akwa Ibom on the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP). He hopes it will help address the problem, especially in IBB Way and Anua-Udo Umana in Uyo. The commission said; “We are partnering with World Bank on the NEWMAP and project is going very well. The contract for IBB Way in Uyo will soon be awarded; contract for Anua-Udo Umana will soon be awarded. Beyond what the state government is doing, other principal agencies and the Federal Government should intervene. Samson urged the people to be safety conscious especially when it rains. Ikot Abasi Local Government Council Vice Chairman Etop Enang thanked the state government for its timely response. He traced the erosion to surge from the Atlantic Ocean, which he said is about 30 minutes away. Enang, who chairs the Local Government Emergency Management Committee for the area, described the water surge as one of such perennial problems facing the state’s coastal regions. He lamented that in Utaewa, the embankments constructed over 40 years ago were not well fortified and have been damaged. He said the resultant flooding grounds the community’s economy and renders some people homeless.