The Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists of Nigeria (AMLSN) has called on the Minister of Health, Osagie Emmanuel Ehanire, to intervene in the current crisis in the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) between its members and staff of the department of medicine. The Association urged the minister to call to order the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the UCTH, Prof lkpeme Asanye Ikpeme, on account of continuous victimization of Medical Laboratory Scientists serving in all federal and state tertiary hospitals in Nigeria. The association’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Casmir Ifeanyi Cajetan, made this call on Monday in Abuja when he alleged that a gang of pathologists of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH) were plotting to disrupt the peace of the hospital. According to him, “We state, unequivocally, that the Chief Medical Director of the UCTH, Prof. lkpeme Asanye Ikpeme, and the Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC) of UCTH, Prof. Ogbu Ewezu Ngim, were the masterminds of the plot. “The management of the UCTH is not only victimizing Medical Laboratory Scientists in the UCTH but has now resorted to molesting them as well.” On the account of how it started, Casmir said, “On Thursday, 5th September, 2019, pathologists-staff of the UCTH laid siege on medical laboratory facilities in the UCTH and ordered all the workers, including medical laboratory scientists, to vacate the medical laboratories; they went ahead and locked up every section of the medical Laboratory and deployed armed to man the entrances. “Later on, a group of management staff accompanied by security agents approached and addressed the stranded medical laboratory scientists, and issued the order that access to the medical laboratory, from that time forward, was open only to medical laboratory scientists (staff) and interns with Staff Identity Cards. “Thus, only staff and interns who had ID cards on them returned to the medical laboratory and resumed work. “Those without ID cards (particularly the Medical Laboratory Science students of the University of Calabar (UniCal) who are on Mandatory Medical Laboratory training in the Medical laboratory) were ushered out of the hospital. “Fracas ensued when the Medical Laboratory Science students on training, who were restricted entry into the medical laboratory, noticed that their counterparts (Students of Medicine, from same UniCal, also on training in the hospital) who also did not possess the identification cards were granted access into the Medical Laboratory.” On the association’s position, Casmir said, “We have over 16 court judgments across teaching hospitals and federal medical centres in Nigeria in our favour. The situation whereby Nigerian physicians who by sheer advantage of their appointment as CMDs, MDs or CMACs, blatantly refuse to respect the status quo and, or, the rule of law is anarchical and unacceptable.” The association alleged that the intervention by the CMD of the UCTH in the current crisis in the hospital was make-believe only to subject our members to torture of all sorts. It alleges that all the steps the management of the UCTH is taking to frustrate the Medical and Laboratory Scientists is done without the due approval or due recourse to the UCTH Governing Board. So far, one member of the AMLSN is said to have died as a result of the imbroglio. “Also, the death of our member, Mr. Patrick Bassey O’neil, in UCTH, on 7th of September 2019 when the crisis in question was in full swing prompts the question: Patrick Bassey O’neil, was murdered via euthanasia (painlessly putting to death), wasn’t he?” Casmir alleged. In a phone interview, the CMD of the UCTH, Prof. lkpeme Asanye Ikpeme, said he is reluctant to respond because the case is under investigation by a panel and he wouldn’t want to be seen as interfering with the process. He however said, “I have had meetings with these people; if they are honest with you, they will tell you that I have met them more than I have met any professional group in the hospital in trying to address their issues. “In order not to be seen as influencing anything, it is only fair that I should not say anything until that panel releases its report. “I will not join issues with them because the problem is actually not a Calabar problem but a national problem. Why the ones in Calabar chose to take the law into their hands, it is only they who can explain.”