NSIA Insurance Limited has launched a campaign to further deepen insurance penetration. Tagged: No Worries, the campaign was unveiled at a briefing  in Lagos. Its Managing Director, Mrs. Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu, said the campaign was expected to sensitise customers and other Nigerians on the benefit of insurance. She said the company places high value on integrity and professionalism, which is why the prompt payment of claims is a part of their commitment to customers. As a proof to their claims settlement ability, she said over N679 million was made in 2017 and N2.4 billion in claims settlement to their clients last year. She stated that the prompt claims payment was in keeping with the commitment to render stellar customer service to clients and in line with their  objectives to pay genuine claims within 48 hours, following the receipt of the signed discharge voucher. She said: “We are putting ourselves out there to remind our customers of our commitment to serving them well. We bear in mind their needs and provide tailor-made solutions to suit them. ‘’We are known as “The true face of Insurance” because we understand and respond to all aspects of the insurance business. In recent times, NSIA Insurance, in a bid to diversify business, partnered Multichoice on the DSTV Thanks Programme, to reward loyal DSTV subscribers with 10 per cent discount on four identified products which include NSIA Comprehensive Motor Insurance, NSIA Motor Insurance – Third Party Fire & Theft, NSIA Householder Insurance and NSIA Personal Accident Cover.’’ She continued; “NSIA Insurance also recently announced the successful completion of their 2019 ISO Surveillance Audit by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), after they were awarded the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System Certification in May 2018. This certification was achieved due to the successful implementation of the Quality Management System and priority for customer satisfaction. Next was the announcement of their Travel Insurance product with three main legs: the medical services package, which covers medical expenses for sickness and injuries, emergency medical evacuation and repatriation, repatriation of mortal remains to the home country, convalescence expense and dental treatment due to accident. “The Travel Assistance package, which covers terrorism, catastrophe, loss of passport, travel documents and luggage as well as trip cancellation and legal fees. “The company prides itself as a provider of a unique Health Insurance policy, which is provided in partnership with Hollard, one of South Africa’s largest independent insurance companies, and Cigna, one of the world’s leading providers of health benefits.”