Okorie UGURU THE Radisson Hotel Group is adding more hotels to its property portfolio in Nigeria. This includes bringing its topmost luxury brand, the Radisson Collection, into the country. In addition, the group is embarking on phased renovations in three of its properties in the country,according to  the General Manager of Radisson Blu Hotel Anchorage, Victoria Island, Lagos, Mr. Kelvin Kamua. Kamua said, during a  media chat, that despite the current difficulty in Nigeria’s economy, the group is confident of a better future. Kamua talked about how the Radisson brand has evolved from one property to one of the most recognizable international hotel brands in Nigeria. He said: “a few things have happened: one, I have the best team in Nigeria. They make my job a lot more bearable. “ If I look at the Anchorage and the other  hotels, we’ve got a diverse team. We are promoting talent and we are training. What all these do, is to remove a bit of weight off your back and to focus on other businesses. “We are one of the few hotels with a Nigerian as revenue manager.We’ve got a director sales from Zimbabwe, chef from South Africa, three quarters of our food and beverages department are local Nigerians that are properly trained. It really helps to have people with  the market knowledge. We can’t make the right decisions if we don’t have the right information. Also the additional support  I’m getting from the new general managers makes things easy. “Why Nigeria? I will probably backtrack to say, why Africa?   Africa is the next thing to happen. China happened. One thing I am very passionate is that Africa needs to be run be Africans. That is why you see more Africans in different positions. “The reality is that our focus on Africa is based on where we see Africa. It has got so much potentials. We’ve got so much potentials and development and growth.” He also talked about the name change of the group from Calton Rezidor to Radisson Hotel Group and the philosophy behind each of the brands “ One of the great things about the name is that we will now be able to merge the different retails under the same umbrella and create some fantastic new brands. If you look at our brand architecture, we have some specific brands for the Middle East and Africa. “Our top tier brand is called the Radisson Collection. This is our absolute luxury brand. This brand is dedicated to very key market. “ For me to be in Nigeria, one of the best prizes was the opening of the first two Radisson Collection for the  next two years in Lagos. It is a very unique brand. It is not only because it is a luxury brand, it is a very hard brand to get. “ So, we are proud to have that coming along. “Secondly, when I talk  about our pride in Nigeria, I look at what we are doing here. We are actually one of the markets in Africa that have brought the three brands   in the country. So we are making really good stride. We’ve got two Radisson Blu in  Lagos. “There are three Radisson properties coming in the next three to five years. We currently have the Radisson Blu Anchorage and the two year-old Radisson  Blu, Ikeja. “Radisson is our second brand. Remember I said the Radisson Collection lines itself into luxury, the Radisson Blu is into upper scale, it is just below luxury, focusing more on business clientele and our leisure guests. Then under that is Radisson. “ Now Radisson is a beautiful brand.It is for a select, but it is an upscale hotel and you still get all the services that you would in a regular five-star hotel. Again it is a different DNA. “If you look at the team there, they are very different. To have our second one in Africa open in Nigeria was quite exciting.  Under the Radisson, we still have another brand called the Radisson Red. It is a fantastic brand geared towards the millennial. What we’ve just started seeing is that it is not just the millennial but different other market segments because it is a very different hotel. You walk into a Red, the person checking you in is possibly the person serving you in the restaurant. Your general manager could possibly be cleaning your room tomorrow. So, everyone does everything and it is a very different brand and we are looking forward to welcoming it into Lagos. We are actually very excited about the potentials in Lagos. “Then the big fighters, we call them the big fighters, that is Park Inns. It is exciting and colourful. These are the key ones. There are two others but those two are not for our market in Middle East and Africa. We need to recognize our strength and our strength in Africa are the ones we have mentioned.” On the ongoing renovations of  three of the hotel group’s properties, Kamua said: “We are also spending a lot on renovation.  Look at this hotel, Radisson Blu Anchorage, Victoria Island, you would see that it has been running since 2010/2011. “So, it is time to give it a refresh. So, if you come here in another 12 months, I don’t think you will be able to recognize it. It will be completely different. We are getting a lot of support from our investors and owners because of the success of what we are doing. We are in a very tough economy but we still see the owners happy to invest. So, these hotels- Radisson Blu Anchorage, Radisson Ikeja and Park Inn, Victoria Island are undergoing significant renovation.” The Radisson Hotel Group is the leading hotel group in Africa in the area of property expansion.