The 2KLandlord.com, a subsidiary of Cadivus Hunters and a prime property lottery  platform, has unveiled the ‘2K Landlord’ raffle with a grand prize of a fully furnished luxury home in Lekki Phase 1 in Lagos valued at N120 million. The company explained that with the lottery, every Nigerian now has a chance of owning multi-million naira homes or the cash equivalent if sold. The platform, which is owned by Cadivus Hunters, aims to drive interest in property ownership amongst Nigerians, while creating multi-millionaires on a scale that empowers beneficiaries and impacts many more lives. Speaking during a press conference, the President of Cadivus Hunters, Opeyemi Odeyale, said  that the 2K Landlord platform mirrors the principles of crowdfunding to create multi-millionaires one at a time and to provide Nigerians with dream homes through a sustainable and credible raffle system . “Most Nigerians, even those that are fully employed, understand the difficulty of owning a home, especially in a moribund mortgage market as Nigeria’s,” he said. For the initial launch, Cadivus Hunters is offering a fully furnished five-bedroom semi-detached house located in Lekki Phase One, valued at N120 million. A participant can enter the draw by purchasing a ticket worth N2,000 via its website or partner platforms. At the end of 90 days, a final draw will be carried out to select a winning ticket that will claim the N120 million luxury home. Also, cash awards of N100,000 weekly and N500,000 monthly will be given throughout the duration of the lottery. Multiple entries are permitted for those who want to increase their chances of winning the grand prize of a N120 million fully furnished luxury home. The property has proven popular with producers in the entertainment industry having featured in award-winning videos such as King of Boys, Rumour Has It and Tender by Slkay.  The winner can choose to live in the house, rent it out or sell it. Whatever the choice, a multi-millionaire emerges. The promotion is endorsed by the Lagos State Lotteries Board.