 THE Airport Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a 54-year-old widow who ‘ingesting 60 wraps of heroin’. The woman was arrested at Lagos Airport at the weekend. The command also arrested a 45-old-man for ‘ingesting 93 wraps of cocaine’ during the outward clearing of passengers’ to board a Lufthansa flight to Frankfurt. Briefing reporters on the arrest, the NDLEA Airport Commander MMIA, Garba Ahmadu said the woman who ingested 60 wraps had difficulty excreting  28 wraps  out the 60 she ingested. He said her life was in danger because of the remaining wraps. Ahmadu noted that the female trafficker Alhaja Sulaimon Kudirat Adunni who hails from Abeokuta Ogun State started having problems a day after her arrest as she  developed complications, vomited two  wraps of suspected substance resulting from irritation and stomach discomfort. According to him, she coughed  intermittently before vomitting and fainted in the process. “She was promptly rushed to the Lagos State University Teaching hospital LASUTH. The suspect was examined by a team of medical specialists, ultrasound scan performed and CT scan was later recommended, which was immediately carried out on the suspect”. The NDLEA Airport Commander noted that after she was certified stable, the suspect was taken back to custody for further investigation in order to unravel other possible associates that are linked to the case. Ahmadu assured that the suspect was kept under strict observation for possible excretion of the remaining 32 wraps. The second suspect Adindu Obinna Hyacinth, 45, from Nnewi, Anambra State, did not give much problems as he  excreted the 93 wraps ingested. But one of the wrap was in the process of almost unwrapping in his stomach. “In the process of excretion, the suspect made the first excretion of 35 wraps of suspected hard drugs and it was observed that one of the wraps excreted was almost unwrapped. The management promptly referred the suspect for medical attention at LASUTH. The suspect was observed at the hospital by a team of medical specialist and later administered some medications”. 