 For many plying the Toyota-Ilasa end of the Oshodi Apapa Expressway, the rehabilitation work is a balm on an old wound. Before them is an ambitious plan to deliver a road that will stand the test of time. The road is yet to be completed, but drivers and commuters along the stretch have continued to praise the government for the quality of work, remarking that it is long overdue given the heavy shipments to and from the seaports daily. Still, the salutary project is coming at a price. Many have noted the absence of pedestrian bridges and closure of openings usually used by people to connect the extremes. Our correspondent observed last week that pedestrians crossing the Ballet to the Itire end of the expressway were forced to climb the high concrete wall, a move that would be impossible for a frail or aged person. The case was the same at Iyana-Isolo as people who alighted from buses on the Mushin end were also forced to claim the high rise median since there is no pedestrian bridge around. Appealing to the government for quick intervention, road users said the development was not palatable and could worsen people’s plight in case of an emergency. “At the moment, there is no pedestrian bridge at Iyana-Isolo. The closest is Five Star and it is more than 300 metres away. Imagine having to stop at Five Star just to cross the bridge and walk down to Iyana-Isolo to continue their journey? “These contractors did not consider the risk they are putting people through. It is a good thing for them to close the openings on the Expressway because that is the sure way to prevent accidents when the road is finally opened. But I expected they would have constructed pedestrian bridges first so that people have alternatives,” said a road user. For some motorists, the road reconstruction was taking too long, lamenting the harrowing experiences they face daily as a result of congestion between Ilasa and Toyota. Since the commencement of reconstruction on the busy road by the Federal Government months ago, vehicular movements have been restricted to the service lanes resulting to a bedlam. The Nation reports that motorists spend between one to four hours on that road daily to commute from Ilasa to Charity Bus Stop, a distance that should ordinarily be about 10 minutes drive. The situation is worsened whenever there is accident, rainfall or influx of articulated vehicles into Apapa, the port community. It was observed that commuter buses were plying against traffic from Toyota inward Mile Two thus compounding the situation for motorists connecting the expressway from Mushin. Appealing to the government for speedy completion of the road, some of the motorists who spoke with The Nation lamented that the work has dragged for too long. A delivery man who gave his name as Tunde said he has been in the traffic for over two hours, adding that he regretted plying the route. The man who drove a van, said he accepted the offer to make quick cash, not knowing that it would take him so long to get to Festac, his destination. “This stress is too much. I carried these load from Ikorodu to deliver them at Festac. I thought I will quickly drop them and then return to my home in Imota but I have spent two hours just between Toyota and Iyana Isolo. “The traffic is not even moving. You can see that people have turned off their engines. I can’t even imagine how people who drive this route daily go through. The government should intervene and give the company deadline to complete this work,” he said. Another motorist Lawrence Ibe, an auto-parts trader at Ladipo Market, said the congestion has robbed them of costumers who could have patronised them. “I live in Okota and trade at Ladipo. Since August I have been facing this traffic daily. I don’t know why it is taking so long for the work to be completed. I also do not know why these people cannot do this construction at night when the road will be less busy. “The worst part is that inner roads in Isolo that we could have used to avoid this situation are in horrible state. My car is low and so, I cannot even try any of them. Then, Isolo Mushin Road too is always blocked. We just need the government to come to our rescue. “We have started season but market is poor because costumers are running from the traffic. December is almost here and so, government needs to pressure those constructing this road to do it fast. They are taking too much time,” he said. A trailer driver who was seen smoking said he has also been in the traffic for hours, adding that the cigarette was helping him deal with the frustration. “I am going to return this container to the port and I have been here since 12pm. I just hope I am able to leave this traffic before they close work today. I have since turned off my engine and smoking this cigarette helps me to cool my temper. “The government needs to help ws. We are suffering everyday. Everywhere is blocked. Even this service lane that is open is not good. The road has many potholes and we are forced to go slowly to avoid falling and blocking the only available road,” he said.