The Nigerian Centre of PEN International, also known as PEN Nigeria, wishes to draw attention to the continued detention and persecution of several Nigerian writers, bloggers and journalists. Despite the global outcry trailing the detention of the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Mr Omoyele Sowore, he is yet to regain his freedom. Mr Sowore was abducted on Saturday, August 3 2019, and on Friday August 9 an order to detain him for 45 days was granted to the Department of State Security. On Friday September 20th, a day before the expiration of that order, the DSS filed a motion to detain him for an additional 20 days; on Friday October 4, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu granted Mr Sowore N100 million bail with two sureties in like sum, while his co-defendant, Olawale Bakare, was granted N50 million bail. On Monday, October 21, 2019, the Federal High Court partially reduced the conditions of the bail granted Sowore and Bakare. However, Mr Omoyele Sowore remains in custody, together with Mr Olawale Bakare. Messrs Sowore and Bakare are by no means the sole victims of the state’s disregard for the rule of law and freedom of expression. Mr Jones Abiri, after being held incommunicado for two years,was released but has since been rearrested. Dadiyata, the blogger, also remains in custody, with a shroud of uncertainty surrounding his whereabouts. The journalist Mary Ekere was equally assaulted and arrested in the course of discharging her duties, as was Agba Jalingo. Stephen Kefas was also remanded in Kaduna prison over a Facebook post, as was Kofi Bartels in Port Harcourt. These instances of violation of the freedom of expression of Nigerian writers, journalists and bloggers, at the behest of agents of the state, call for great concern. In a democratic dispensation such as Nigeria purports to be, one of the pillars is freedom of expression. These acts of repression have prompted the Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka to accuse the Nigerian government of unprecedented levels of paranoia. As a body of writers, we are concerned about the implications for the Nigerian people of these systematic acts of repression. We believe that such censorship of the people bodes ill for the continuing healthy evolution of this entity called Nigeria. We therefore wish to condemn in the strongest terms these acts of violation of the right to liberty of the afore-named persons, as well as others facing a similar fate. Twenty-four years ago, a famous Nigerian writer died by a hangman’s noose, at the orders of the military junta. The avowals of ‘Never Again!’ that subsequently ushered in the democratic dispensation spoke of a collective desire to ensure that our freedoms as a people are never again taken away from us. These various attempts to muzzle the mouthpieces of the people speak of a systematic ploy to drag Nigeria back to the dark ages. History, the saying goes, is first tragic then farcical. We resolve that our dear country will not be conscripted into this farcical role, and therefore call for the immediate and unconditional release of the afore-mentioned. We call on the judiciary to remain resolute in their refusal to morph into a mere appendage of the government, and encourage writers of every designation to continue to wield their pens responsibly and resolutely in defence of truth and freedom of expression.