Nigerian businessmen seeking Chinese partnership have been told to avoid falling into wrong hands. Managing Director of MD Perspective Nigeria Limited, Mrs Morenike Dele-Alimi, gave the advice on Thursday while highlighting activities involving her organization ahead of the Lagos International Trade Fair. She spoke while on a visit to The Nation headquarters in Lagos. Her team which included Executive Director/Business Manager, Temiloluwa Dele-Alimi and Assistant Business Manager Miss Omolara Saidi, were received by The Editor, Adeniyi Adesina. She said: “Many Nigerians have had horrible experiences dealing with sets of businessmen, especially from China, who turned out to be fraudsters, phony businessmen. To help Nigerians avoid such mistakes, in the last couple of years, we have been helping to connect local investors with genuine business people from Asia. This is just our own way of growing the economy.” The chartered accountant, who hinted of plans by her company to facilitate a trade exhibition in collaboration with some of its partners from China, said local businesses stand to benefit from the four-day fair which is billed for Monday, November 4-Thursday, November 7th, 2019 at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) in Lagos. She said the trade exhibition is going to bring together business to business people as well as ensure that interested Nigerians can directly interface with their counterparts from China, including original equipment manufacturers and producers. “Our mandate is to ensure that local businesses are able to network with the right kind of people such that after meeting these people they can know if the business is doable even before they take a step further. That way they are guaranteed that they are doing business with legitimate businessmen,” she said. According to her: “We are dealing with some partners including United Asia International Exhibition Group (UAEC) Company, most of who have the endorsement of the government of China, which explains why we have no qualms at all with associating with these set of partners because we are confident that they can do good business with Nigerians.” The four-day exhibition, which will be heralded by a symposium on Monday, will feature businesses ranging from automobile, petrochemicals, homecare, textiles, to mention just a few. Some of the expected guests at the fair include Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, the top echelons of the Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria (FADAN) and a host of others. Responding, Mr. Adesina who acknowledged the fact that there are lots of individuals masquerading as genuine businessmen out there, however, said, it was heartening to note that MD Perspective Nigeria Limited was doing everything humanly possible to ensure that the interest of local businesses are being protected, just as he assured of the company’s support towards achieving the set objectives of the forthcoming fair.