Youth leaders from Southern Ijaw, the Local Government Area of APC governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, have declared support for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor, ahead of the November 16 election in the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, said that the Committee of Youth Presidents and leaders from all the communities in Southern Ijaw endorsed the PDP ticket during a meeting with Governor Seriake Dickson, at the Government House in Yenagoa. He quoted the spokesperson of the Committee Mr. Salvation Ayawei, as saying that they took the decision following the developmental strides of the state government and peace and stability in the area. Ayawei commended the efforts of Dickson’s administration on road construction, bridges and other projects in the local government area especially the multi billion Bayelsa International Cargo/Passenger Airport. He said that the governor’s decision to make sustained investments in the education sector such as the introduction of free boarding educational system, the establishment of tertiary institutions, implementation of reforms in the public sector among others were commendable feats. He said that the youth presidents and other youth leaders from Southern Ijaw would ensure the victory of the PDP at the poll. He said: “Your government has brought peace, stability, light and all its take to make life meaningful to us. You declared a state òf emergency in the education sector, you established and funded new tertiary institutions, introduced reforms in the civil service, then constructed the first ever airport of the Ijaw nation in Southern Ijaw. “Bayelsans are very happy with this government. The Committee òf youth presidents and the Southern Ijaw youths are behind you in the project to ensure the victory of Senator Diri and his running mate.” In his remarks, Dickson urged the youth groups to mobilise support for the PDP and resist all acts of intimidation from persons planning to unleash violence on the state as their only strategy to win election. The governor, who urged the youths to be peaceful in the process of the campaigns for the election, stressed that election should not be seen as a war but a democratic process of leadership selection. Dickson said Southern Ijaw was the headquarters of the PDP which brought the party to Bayelsa, produced the first elected Governor, Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, and had always remained a PDP stronghold from the commencement of the democratic governance in 1999 to date. He said: “Our own candidate, Senator Diri is a product of the Ijaw struggle; he will fight for you. He will fight for the Ijaw nation, he will fight those dividing our people, destroying the environment with the intent to hold them down. The Governor òf Bayelsa must be prepared, must be equipped, must be groomed over the years to take on responsibilities.” Also speaking, the PDP Candidate, Sen. Diri, said that the forthcoming election was between those colluding with oil companies to destroy the Niger Delta environment and the true leaders interested in development. He said that the oil firms further devised a plot to divide the unity of the Ijaw people by engaging those they call “oil and gas” to work for them, capture political power to promote the selfish plot to hold down the region. He promised to continue the current government’s investigation into the activities of the oil firms and the pollution of the rivers and indeed the environment of the area. Diri promised to continue with the developmental efforts of the Dickson administration by completing all ongoing projects and initiating and executing new ones in the state.