FEDERALISM is the combination of self-rule and shared rule in compound polities…. While government in large unitary states is to some extent decentralized, it is non-centralized in federal ones. The powers of regional governments are not delegated by a central government but are directly derived from democratic representations.” — Rainer Baubock, “Why Stay Together? A Pluralist Approach to Secession and Federation” in Citizenship in Diverse Societies edited by Will Kymlicka and Wayne Norman (2000: Oxford University Press), p. 368. ‘No country in the world, where people are forced to co-exist on disagreeable terms lasts. Nigeria will not be an exception, if “true federalism” is not entrenched as a national principle of coexistence. It was clear from the beginning that a unitary system will not work in Nigeria as Lugard’s attempt to construct Nigerian unity through an amalgamation failed.’—General Ipoola Alani Akinrinade, “Which Way Nigeria?” A Lecture Delivered at the Inauguration of the New President of The Challenge Club, Ibadan, 2017 General Ipoola Alani Akinrinade, CFR, GCON, just turned 80 yesterday and, served in his honor was an intellectual menu worthy of his consistency of principle and courageous commitment to national greatness. Ten years ago, on his 70th birthday, I described General Akinrinade as “a one soldier integrity squad.” He remains so. Twenty years ago, on General Akinrinade’s 60th birthday, The Moremi Foundation held a symposium in his honor at the Blackburn Center, Howard University, in Washington DC. The theme of that symposium was “Nigeria and the future of federalism”. It was a fitting tribute to the courage and commitment of an officer and gentleman in the best of that tradition, who, having served at the highest levels of the military in professional and political appointments, has not minced words, and has not shied away from speaking truth to power about the  fundamental challenges that we face as a nation. That the powers that be turn deaf ears doesn’t take away from the clarity of his thoughts and the forthrightness of his warnings. My interest in this piece is to salute General Akinrinade’s intellectual endowment which he has consistently deployed for more than 25 years in pursuit of true democratic federation in Nigeria. I do this by revisiting his constructive critique of the wobbly structure that the military imposed on the nation by fiat, and his thoughtful alternative for the resolution of the crisis of democracy in our land. If Rainer Baubock is right in my opening epigram, that the powers of regional governments are not delegated by the central government but are derived from democratic representation as fashioned in the constitution, we must admit that Nigeria has been practicing a fake variant of federalism since 1966. This is the fundamental problem with our system of governance. It is the root of our crises of identity. General Akinrinade is one of those who first saw in the military annulment of the 1993 presidential elections more than a personality disorder on the part of the principal architect of the annulment. He saw the foundation of that blatant disrespect for the rule of law something more sinister lurking in the inner recesses of a group, not just an individual. It is well known that Akinrinade refused to join the train of democratic transition in 1999 because it was clear to him that a solid foundation had not been laid for the democratic experiment. He expressed his disappointment that our people had not learnt from their recent history. Thus, in the interview he gave Wahab Gbadamosi of The News in Washington DC in June 1999, it bothered him that the political class decided to accept the military imposed constitution without raising a voice of protest: “If you have a political class that knows what the interests of the people and the political system ought to be, they ought to get together and call a conference of their own, outside this their parliamentary system, which is for a selected few who had been put there and declare that they don’t have a constitution….And therefore the political class should reject that (1999) constitution en masse…. They should then declare that they want to make a constitution for the people in their way. And they will win.” Of course, they will win because it would be a battle between the military and the people, and the military had just then been disgraced out of office. And the trajectory of our politics would have taken a whole different turn. The seed of that 1999 remark was already embedded in the text of General Akinrinade’s speech at the official launching of the Yoruba Autonomy Certificate in Washington DC in May 1998.  That speech underscored the importance of a true federal system which respects the internal autonomy of its constituent units: “…But let us suppose that we have managed to establish a Nigeria where there is recognition of equality of rights and privileges for all our people with whatever constitutional restrictions are necessary. Will that guarantee the stability of the commonwealth of Nigeria? …. Is it not quixotic to hope that a democracy of one man one vote will be enough to guarantee the stability of the state?” His answer is, of course, No. He then asks if it is not in our interest “to look now beyond the military and try to find our own home grown method of creating a stable Nigeria from the ashes of the military jackboot, a nation that will endure, a nation where no man (or woman) is or feel oppressed.” His emphasis then and now for the solution of our democracy crises is to find a political formula that enhances a sense of fairness and justice between the component nationalities so that an Ogoni citizen doesn’t feel oppressed by decisions taken based on majority votes of Fulani or Yoruba citizens. This is the nationality question for liberal democracy. We deceive ourselves if we believe that the principle of one man one vote is the be-all and end-all of democracy. In his 2017 Challenge Club lecture quoted in my second epigram above, General Akinrinade canvassed for a restructured Nigeria as solution to the threat of instability and the plague of underdevelopment with its attendant symptoms. He cited the unanimous agreement of the founding fathers for federalism in the 1951 and 1954 constitutional conferences when the emphasis was on “achieving unity at the center through strength in the regions.” This was the principle that formed the bedrock of the 1960 federal constitution and the 1963 republican constitution. It was the principle put into practice between 1955 and 1966 with good visible results that we still reminisce today. This takes me again to the quotation in my first epigram. Rainer Baubock distinguishes between unitary states and federal states based on the division of powers between them. Whereas unitary states decentralize powers from the center to the regions, in federal states power is not centralized to start with. Therefore, decentralization is a misnomer. Second, in a federation, the powers of the regional government are not delegated to them from a central government. Those regional powers are derived from democratic representation based on the constitution. Again, this was our system of government prior to the military era. Talk about devolution presupposes a pre-existing unitary government doling out excess powers to the regions. Based on the history of the country since 1966, we cannot fault anyone thinking that Nigeria is a unitary state, and that what we need is devolution of power from the center to the states. Incidentally, this is what APC manifesto promises. However, the depth of our structural challenges requires more than doling of powers from the center. It requires a new beginning that takes account of the defining mark of Nigeria as a multinational state. As Baubock also observes, in multinational states, “ a common grievance of national minorities is that “the terms of federation are either unfair or have been violated by the majority” (367). Redressing that grievance requires fundamental restructuring that recognizes the primacy of constituent units as was the case in 1951 and 1954. Happy 80th, General! Looking forward to the 100th! 