Victor AKANDE WHY should any State in Nigeria want to beat Lagos State to tourism power? Has any in France beaten Paris to the game? Has any in Italy beaten Milan to it? Why should small fries take advantage of the advantages that Lagos has failed to harness to fake a leap to lead spots in tourism and entertainment? For decades, Paris, a trendy city in the heart of France has maintained its identity as the art and fashion hub of Europe and a leading tourist destinations in the world; so is Rio, the pride of Brazil which is described as the most visited city in the southern hemisphere, known for its natural settings and carnivals, while Dubai remains the business and cultural hub of the Middle East of modern appeal. A comedian while wooing his crowd in Calabar last December said to them: “I’m now getting popular in Lagos oo.” Such is the spirit – you have yet to start for real as an entertainer if you have not been ‘bathed in the Lagos waters’. The State remains the entertainment hub, not just for music artistes who have fought their way to stardom, coming from far away Jos, Abuja, Enugu, Bayelsa, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Uyo, Warri, Kaduna and other parts of the country, but also for the Nigerian motion picture industry called Nollywood. Therefore, if Lagos is where the success of music and film start and end, what there is left for rivals to latch on? The Gambian economy is predominantly dependent on tourism. But what does the country sell other than beach resorts that thrive on serene environment, clean waters, scorching sun and security for revelers. Lagos has more, with potential even for more when you consider its entertainment centers, historical sites, cultural events, natural landscape and topography traversed by sea and lagoon waters, enormous beaches and waterfronts, sea foods and other numerous delicacies that define a true metropolitan city. However, the missing gap has been the inability of leaders to harness these beauties for the all-important social and economic benefits, thereby letting these unique materials to continue to beg for a messiah – now we have one. For the first time, a strategic programme of action was pronounced as part of former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s entertainment and tourism agenda for Lagos State. It was called T.H.E.S.E, an acronym quite pungent in harnessing the creative sector’s variables that are capable of stimulating the economy through alternative IGRs, even empowering the youths and making Lagos a fun city desirable by all. T.H.E.S.E – a Tourism, Hospitality, Entertainment/Arts Sports for Excellence project took off with a new romance being extended to players in the entertainment industry. Shortly after takeoff, the Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF), for example, had a different experience in Lagos, hosting filmmakers and enthusiasts from Africa and the Diaspora, who explored as many entertainment centers as possible. Also, with the support given to EbonyLife’s Fifty movie by the Lagos State Government and its Ministry of Culture and Tourism, entrepreneurs who had sought succor for their projects in States other than Lagos appear to be returning to base. One major event for which Ambode’s government had walked the talk was the One Lagos Fiesta, a five-day concert staged across Lagos communities annually. The event which used to hold solely at the Bar Beach water front, probably partly for security reasons was first test run in five communities, including Ikorodu, Epe, Agege, Badagry and Lagos Island, without a single case of violence. Interestingly, Lagos is fast restoring the confidence of revelers in line with Ambode’s campaign promises. No doubt, the level of commercial activities at the One Lagos Fiesta environs is what the traders would wish a monthly affair, even as the success story remains an attraction and sense of belonging to visitors and tourists alike. It is not enough that Lagos is the former capital of Nigeria. The will to keep the aquatic state at the forefront of socio-political and economic relevance in the West African sub region has been a major factor of its success, and the prerogative of visionary leaderships that have continued to play the big brother to other states of the federation and the FCT. Situations at a recent edition of the annual Festival de Cannes in France lent credence to this position, with Lagos playing Nigeria at the festival. The Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture had, at the festival, promoted Lagos as Nigeria’s most vibrant city and gateway to the world of cinema. Pavilion 210 at the Panteiro-Side of the International Village was home for Nigerian delegates, led by the immediate past Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Steve Ayorinde who, as a film festival veteran led the new Lagos-Cannes narrative two times in a row. Recall that like a technocrat worthy of his onions, Ayorinde took the first shot barely one year into his former appointment as Commissioner for Information and Strategy, when he led a similar delegation to the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) in 2016 where eight films representing Lagos were showcased as part of the city-to-city focus programme of the festival. But for a tourism and arts loving governor in Mr. Akinwumi Ambode, these brilliant propositions may not have seen the light of the day. Hence, in the absence of a Federal Government’s articulated and sustainable blue print for cultural showcase at such global platforms, it is important for filmmakers to seek ways of tapping into this big brother goodwill. It is in this regard that I want T.H.E.S.E thing to continue in Lagos… under the new leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.