By Kofoworola Belo-Osagie Starting from this month, Bridge International Academies has begun assessing teachers ahead of an award that would be presented next year during the World Teachers’ Day. Unveiling the awards at an event to celebrate teachers at the Bridge International Academies office in Yaba, Lagos, People Director, Bridge International Academies, Mrs Ibukun Igbinosa, said the awards would recognise teachers in various categories. She said Bridge Academy, which runs a chain of low-cost private schools that promise quality education service delivery leveraging technology, instituted the awards to celebrate recognise its teachers who are behind the school’s success. “Bridge teachers are star-studded teachers.  We want to celebrate teachers who have gone the whole 12 yards.  We are launching the Bridge Teachers’ Award 2020.  But we will start to collect the data now.  Some of our teachers are ministers, pastors in their classes and we don’t want their good work to go to waste. “We have chosen to celebrate and reward the people who are putting their head and heart into doing this job,” she said. Some of the categories for the awards are: best Bridge teacher; most dedicated teacher; long service award; most outstanding teacher; best extra-curricular teacher; best academic outcomes teacher; outstanding school leader; and most outstanding Early Childhood Development (ECD) teacher. “We are watching you and the judgment day is next year.  This will be happening all around the world where Bridge Schools exist,” she added. At the event, some pupils from some of the Bridge Schools presented songs and recitations to celebrate the teachers.  They also put their teachers on the hot seat – asking them to answer questions based on the primary school curriculum. The programme also featured a talk by popular speaker, Rotimi Eyitayo, who underscored the need for policy that would make the teaching profession attractive. On his part, the Managing Director, Bridge International Academies, Mr Dapo Olarinmoye, said teachers needed the right training to be effective. “There are several children who cannot read or write, but if teachers are given the right training, the children will be better for it,” he said. Sharing testimony of the impact of Bridge School, Mrs Maryjane Ikeakaonwu of Bridge School, Daddy Savage Academy, Fagba, said the ideals she taught her pupils in school helped her when she participated in the first- ever Reality TV show for teachers in Nigeria held in August. “My experience in the house was amazing.  What motivated me to participate were these pupils,” she said.