For those who think his influence and clout will be submerged after his loss at the last gubernatorial election in Oyo state under the All Progressive Congress (APC) Bayo Adelabu with the sobriquet “Penkelemense”, is still enjoying massive support from his party and people around him. Away from his defeat to Seyi Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the former Deputy Governor of Central Bank, who challenged his election at the tribunal, has accepted the outcome of the result in good faith and currently working on his next move politically. After setting his feet in the murky waters of politics, the Agbaakin Parakoyi of Ibadan land was widely commended for pulling such a huge weight at the just concluded pools. This is a clear indication that, he is well loved in Oyo state and beyond. On the 28th of September, Bayse 1 as he is fondly called in the social radar, celebrated his 49th birthday amidst pomp. Many had thought he was going to be deserted by favour seekers and supporters. To the chagrin of his detractors, a mammoth crowd of supporters came out to share in his joy of his birthday. This turnout further certified that, Bayo is a heavy weight in politics. As part of the birthday celebration activities, APC leader in Oyo state, Mr Akin Oke also commissioned a new edifice. The Adelabu Penkelemense Political headquarters located at the highbrow area of Jericho, Ibadan. The birthday and building commissioning witnessed the presence of top political heavyweights in the state. In attendance were APC chieftain, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, ably represented by Mr Tunde Rahman his media adviser, Hon. Dapo Lam-Adeshina and a host of others. The First Class Accounting Graduate from Obafemi Awolowo University, we gathered, is currently focusing on his business, humanitarian foundation and human investment/development. He is currently restrategising and rebuilding his political dynasty. He will be relaunching his gubernatorial ambition in 2022, ahead of the 2023 general elections.