The recent news of various rehabilitation centres discovered in Kaduna, Kwara and Taraba State is quite disturbing. No one is sure whether to call them “rehabilitation” or “detention” centres going by what the occupants or “inmates” go through. It is reported that parents took their children or wards to these centres for discipline and correction from their wayward lifestyles. Studies however revealed that there are better ways to discipline your child. It should be noted that if discipline is taken too far, or too extreme, it could have a negative effect on children. This is why President Muhammadu Buhari has since ordered the police to flush out illegal rehabilitation centres across the country. Five suggested ways to instill discipline or correction in your children include:  Give them your attention. The most powerful tool for effective discipline is attention—to reinforce good behaviors and discourage others. Remember, all children want their parent’s attention. Make them do it again Everybody deserves a second chance, right? If your child has shown a lack of respect in some way, give them the option of a “do-over.” Send them out of the room, and have them start all over again. It gives them practice in treating others well. Use silence Sometimes it is hurtful words or it could be a loudness that disturbs the peace. Taking away the privilege to talk for a certain amount of time will calm them down and give them time to think. Give consequences Calmly and firmly explain the consequences if they don’t behave. For example, tell her that if she does not pick up her toys, you will put them away for the rest of the day. Be prepared to follow through right away. Don’t give in by giving them back after a few minutes. But remember, never take away something your child truly needs, such as a meal. Use the rod rarely “Spare the rod, spoil the child.” We all know this ancient wisdom, but it must be used with caution. Don’t do it in anger. It can be tough at times, but always keep your composure. If need be, take a walk before engaging. Have them sit on their bed and wait. Sometimes the waiting is worse than the actual spanking. 