 George Peter, Major Victorious Oghenefegor, Victoria Hawaowu Babatunde and Gbemisola Peter have been inducted as Presidents of brand new Young Rotary Clubs in Victoria Island Senior Secondary, Victoria Island Junor Secondary, Kuramo Senior Secondary School and Kuramo Junior Secondary Schools on Victoria Island, Lagos. The pupils, under the supervision of Rotary Club of Lekki Golden, would oversee community development efforts in their environment. Speaking at the event held last Saturday at Kuramo Secondary School, Rotary International District Governor 9110, Dr. Jide Akeredolu, said:  “Today, the Rotary Club of Lekki Golden has formed four charters of young Rotary clubs in the four schools to groom, interact and be responsible law-abiding citizens. “They have four presidents who will be groomed on the ideals, virtues of the Rotary Club and to take up leadership responsibilities of their schools and future endeavour.” Akeredolu said the induction gives the pupils powers to start community development projects from their schools. The Rotary Lekki Golden also inaugurated some projects it did for the schools.  They included four magnetic white boards, desk and chairs, upgrade of the staff room for Victoria Island Junior Secondary School; donation of 5.5KVA generator for Victoria Island Senior Secondary School; renovation and upgrading of two blocks of classrooms as well as donations  of seven white boards, one notice board, and a Nigerian flag to Kuramo Junior Secondary School; and donation of English, mathematics, chemistry and physics textbooks and work-book for Kuramo Senior secondary. Charter President of Rotary Club Lekki Golden, Winifred Igweonwu, said despite the group’s relatively young existence, the effort was necessary. “Our club is new with just less than six months old, but we came to these  public schools located among multi-international  companies as we observed that they  lack some vital amenities. The club met the school authorities and individuals and they told us their needs. We decided to attend to the most beneficial needs of the students,” she said.