The leadership of the National Assembly and the Edo State Government are on collision course over the crisis rocking Edo Assembly, it has been learnt. Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has vowed that the leadership of the National Assembly would challenge a Federal High Court ruling restraining it from taking over the legislative functions of the Edo Assembly. Gbajabiamila gave this indication in his remarks during a visit by the Progressive Governors’ Forum to the leadership of the National Assembly in Abuja. Also on Monday, Katsina Governor and Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum’s subcommittee on Legislative Matters, Aminu Bello Masari, lamented that absence of coordination has brought distrust capable of destroying the APC. Before the meeting went into a closed -door session, Gbajabiamila said that the leadership of the National Assembly was surprised that it could resolve the crisis in the Bauchi State House of Assembly “which is an opposition state” but could not resolve that of Edo which is an APC state. He said it was surprising that the Edo Assembly has decided to “test an exclusive constitutional role of the National Assembly in court.” It could be recalled that both chambers of the National Assembly had in June resolved to take over the legislative duties of the Edo Assembly following the crisis that emanated when nine lawmakers loyal to Governor Godwin Obaseki were secretly inaugurated by the Governor on June 17, while others were left out. A Federal High Court in Port Harcourt had restrained the National Assembly from interfering in the affairs of the Edo State House of Assembly. Justice Kolawole Omotosho had also ruled that the National Assembly could not compel Governor Obaseki to issue another proclamation within the lifespan of an existing proclamation for inauguration of Edo House of Assembly. The court gave the order when it delivered judgement in a suit brought by Yekini Idiaye, the Deputy Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, and Henry Okhuarobo, the member representing Ikpoba-Okha State Constituency. Omotosho had said: “There is nothing before the court to show that the Edo State House of Assembly is unable to sit. “Some elected members have been inaugurated. The House has been carrying out its legislative duties. “The National Assembly lacks the power to take over the Edo State House of Assembly. “It amounts to taking over the functions of the Edo State House of Assembly. “The House of Assembly is not an appendage of the National Assembly.” Reacting to the ruling, Gbajabiamila said: “While addressing the issue of one party and one government, myself and my big brother the Senate President will want to draw our attention to the issue of the crisis in Bauchi and Edo states. “Whilst we were able to successfully resolve the issue in Bauchi State, which is an opposition state, unfortunately, we are unable to resolve that of Edo State. “I think this is what we have to look at and prioritise. We should consider how to constitutionally address the issue. “For those of us on this side, the National Assembly, we are surprised that the exclusive constitutional roles given to us as prescribed in Section 12 of the Constitution, which is written unambiguously clear was being tested. “We are a bit concerned about that. Of course we have three arms of government and on the basis of that, we will be going to court on this matter to resolve not just the judgement but to ensure that any other related issues like that do not come up again. “The House of Representatives have adopted a theme, “The nation building is a joint task”, that is how we are operating in the National Assembly irrespective of our political party divides. “We have resolved to come together when it comes to national issues. We belive that since there is one government, there should be a symbiotic relationship between the governors and the legislators,” he said. It was learnt that after this outburst by Gbajabiamila in the presence of Obaseki, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, spent a substantial part of the closed door session in calming frayed nerves. The Progressive Governors’ Forum was led to the meeting by its Chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Abubakar Bagudu. The Governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the meeting include Governor Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina), Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’s Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Mallam Nasir Elrufai (Kaduna), and Babagana Zulum (Borno). Others include Mohammed Yahaya (Gombe), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Sani Bello (Niger), Mai Mala Buni (Yobe), Abdulrahaman Abdulrazak (Kwara) and Godwin Obaseki (Edo). The Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, represented the Governor.