By Glory Thomas A professor of Industrial Chemistry, Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, Kolawole Ajanaku, is seeking ways to tackle the waste management challenge. This, he said, is as a result of valuable resources that are in waste materials. Ajanaku, who delivered the institution’s 21st Inaugural Lecture at CU premises, also called on the government to address the issue in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Speaking on the theme: ‘Solid waste revolution: The artificial intelligence towards smart, sustainable and safe cities’, Ajanaku advised the government to set up ‘SDGs index of measurement’ as a yardstick for appraising progress of implementation among states and with the ultimate aim of attaining SDGs by 2030. Ajanaku recommends the setting up of waste transfer stations nationwide. He said: “There is need for us to imbibe the 3Rs approach – reduce, reuse and recycling of waste – as a means of sustainable drive.  Let there be waste transfer station in every state of Nigeria. “It is a known fact that the state transfer station is not common in Nigeria and the only state that has that is Lagos.  Let there be appropriate and applicable aapproach by government in getting rid of the solid waste instead of the dumping on landfill approach in place. The world is moving and we cannot afford to stay at a place in our country.” Further, he advised Nigeria to take a cue from a sister country-Ethiopia which, according to him, now uses bio gas for power generation. The African country, which had been having a challenge of power,  coupled with a vast area of land as dumpsite, set up a reppie plant, which synchronises the waste management and energy generation. The plant, Ajanaku explains, consumes the waste generated and uses same to boil water, while the steam then drives turbine generators. He advocates increased consciousness on waste recycling. “Aside teaching waste management as part of the curricula, recycling clubs can also be introduced in schools to instill the waste management culture among youths.  There is need to sell the 3R concept to all  as these would help in cutting down the amount of waste generation and promote utilisation.  The people will  support a system that conserves natural resources. He continued: “The principle of sorting and bagging waste for recycling should be emphasised rather than the indiscriminate dumping of waste. Plastic recycling by conversation of waste sachet into garbage bags for packing and sorting materials can be developed. There is need to have a smart recycling approach to capture materials after the point of consumption and bring them back into sourcing and production ecosystem.” Ajanaku insists that firms using plastic must adopt a modality for reducing plastic littering the environment. “Let companies using PET as their packaging process come up with strategies to reduce plastic pollution which has become a social and environmental concern.Creating a sustainable collection and recycling method would be a good idea. A buy back approach through partnership can be used to achieve this process which makes it possible for treatment and reuse strategy. ‘’Another means is developing plant-based resins via research and development that will reduce the amount of PET use in the system thereby enhancing biodegradation if found in oceans and dumpsites,’’ he added.