As a child, she played percussions on buckets in her home. Nowadays, Nigerian Canadian songwriter, musician and producer, Victoria Falana, plays guitar and piano to large audiences. In this interview with JOE AGBRO JR., Falana, who recently concluded a four city tour speaks on growing up, starting out in music and her passions among other things SINCE Falana’s 2014 performance at the Afropolitan Vibes in Lagos, she has gone on to be accepted for her style – music, fashion and stagecraft. Born in Canada to Nigerian parents and named Victoria Falana, the musician who simply goes by the name, Falana, hails from Ogun State. And she is no biological relation of popular lawyer, Femi Falana, and his more popular rapper son, Folarin Falana aka Falz The Bahd Guy, who hail from Ekiti State. Out of her love for sports, Falana studied sports science at University of Western Ontario and finished in 2013. After her degree, she thought of going into law or medicine or music. Music won. “Music was always there,” Falana said. “The thing about music is sometimes you get scared that it’s not going to give you a stable income. So out of fear, you don’t pursue it.” And during a visit to Nigeria, she decided to pursue her music dream by moving to Cuba. But why the land of Castro, Communism and cigars? “I had met some musicians who were Cubans and their skills were just amazing to me,” she said. “And I wanted to be able to play instruments.” According to her, playing instruments would make her stage performances ‘more flexible’ and it would also help her writing. Earlier, she had taught herself the guitar. “Not everyone in the music industry plays instrument today, so for me, it was important.” She stayed in Cuba for 14 months and learnt amongst other things, how to play the piano. Falana said Cuba was like ‘home’. “If you understand Cuban history, you’ll understand how there is a lot of links with Yoruba culture,” she said. “So, for me, there is a cultural element but the music element is also very strong. You have a lot of Yoruba influence that is very well retained, almost sometimes better than how we retain our own culture and history. Here, I guess because it is most readily available, we don’t cherish it as much. So, it was very interesting for me study music in that context. And also, the standard of music there, the talent of music there is very high because the state pays for the schooling of students. The state covers everyone, even if you have money or you don’t have money. If you want to study music, you have the means to be able to study music and go on to the superior arts and end up playing in the orchestra. And that goes across. That’s for film, that’s for dance and stuff.” In Cuba, Falana met Vivian Prez Leon, who taught at the Instituto de Artes Superiores. It was Vivian who gave Falana private piano lessons. But initially, there was a problem as Vivian spoke only Spanish and Falana spoke no Spanish “I had to learn Spanish to be able to take the classes,” said Falana. The ability to speak Spanish would also help when she recorded her first project in Cuba, ‘Things fall Together.’ After the Havana experience, Falana came back to Lagos in 2014. In the same year, she performed at Afropolitan Vibes, a monthly gig organised by Bantu at Freedom Park, Lagos. She performed alongside with Yemi Alade. Lagosians welcomed her and later, she performed at Felabration, the annual festival to honour late Afrobeats founder, Fela Kuti. In Lagos, she worked with Metro 97.7FM as an on air personality on mid-day lounge between 2014 and 2016. While there, she got to interview celebrities like Banky W, Pepenazi and others. But five years after, Falana is also living her life as a recognised musician. In September, she concluded the ‘Chapter One Tour’, in which she performed in Lagos, Accra (Ghana), Kigali (Rwanda) and Abuja. The tour was a result of partnership with Access Bank. “That was really exciting, to do that kind of scale of tour.” Priding herself on her stagecraft, she said: “I like to perform. Like Fela back in the days, he used to perform before he even recorded music. I love being on stage. So, I always try to make it a very intentional part of my craft outside of recording music.” She recalls that the first time she was on stage was at church where she was drumming and singing. “Performing is not something that did not come natural to me. It always is very intuitive. A lot of people can feel me when I’m on stage. They can see the energy that I’m bringing. And they always say my voice is my umber one instrument.” In 2016, Falana did a series of concerts across Lagos and also released an EP titled ‘Chapter One.’ She produced all the songs on ‘Chapter One’ except ‘Get Up’. Falana said that the project was mixed and mastered by Grammy award-winning mixing engineer, Commissioner Gordon, who also mixed and mastered Lauryn Hill’s ‘Miseducation of Lauryn Hill’ and worked with Amy Winehouse. Speaking on her writing processes, she said: “Life has different elements. You’re happy, you’re sad, you’re dancing, you just to get to express so many ideas through music. So, like Ride or Die for example, was about, you know people look at you like, ‘you’re my ride or die’, we go die together here. Or it could also be that people forget that we have communities around us, someone that might potentially be your ‘ride or die’ but you need to open up to them. I was thinking of that kind of thing when I wrote ‘Ride or Die.’” Another of her song, ‘Start Again’, pushes the message of not being afraid of a fresh beginning. “You need to just be grateful for life, be grateful that you have breath in your lungs,” she said. Falana who speaks English, French, Spanish and Yoruba said music is the only thing she does and it pays the bills for her. “It’s been wonderful,” she said. Leaving the comfort zone IN the past three years, Falana has sported a hairstyle that is at once African and contemporary, featuring long braids with balled ends on a Mohawk. “For the first time, it took us almost 16 hours to just figure out how to get it to look right,” Falana said of how she and her hairdresser settled for what has now become her trademark. “You won’t reach new heights sitting where you’re safe. So, as an artiste, I always try and push myself outside of my comfort zone because that’s the best way for me to grow as an artiste.” Leaving that comfort zone was what Falana grew up with as her parents ensured she and her two brothers experienced Nigerian life and culture. “You can move a Nigerian from Nigeria but you can’t take Nigeria outside of a Nigerian. So my parents, down to what we ate, what we listened to, my parents brought everything with them. My mom was obsessed with KSA, or we listen to Yoruba gospel hymns. She had all her tapes that she will bring from Nigeria. She would dub them and keep the original to the side so that nothing will happen to it.” That worked at least in culinary terms. “My favourite food is pounded yam and okra soup,” she said, though admitting some people think it’s “a weird combination.” Her parents also ensured that she and her two brothers visited Nigeria annually on holidays. “My parents are proud Nigerians. They wanted to ensure that we had that base.” And through her mum, Falana listened to the likes of Fela Kuti, King Sunny Ade, Lijadu Sisters, Yinka Ayefele and Majek Fashek. She also listened to soul and jazz, particularly the likes of Duke Ellington, Etta James and Ella Fitzgerald. And when she came into her own, she listened to contemporary artistes like Lauryn Hill, Amy Winehouse, Erykah Badu and Florence The Machine. Falana admits that the analogue music of the 1970s have influenced her music. She is currently working on an album which took her to Ghana where she is working with Ghanaian producer Kwame Yeboah. She has also written some songs with people from Portugal, worked with someone from Ghana and recording in New York and Jamaica. And while some fans have compared her music to Asa’s music, Falana is not bothered. In fact, she welcomes it. “Asa is a very talented and successful artiste. So, if anyone compares me to someone who is talented and successful, that’s not a bad thing ever. Do I think our music is exactly the same? Not necessarily. It’ one of those things. People need people to compare to. And they need a reference point. It’s always a compliment but I think our music is different.” For inspiration, Falana said it could start with a guitar, piano or voice note. “You learn as a songwriter to just write,” she said. “You don’t judge yourself.” Advising upcoming acts that may want to be like her, Falana said they should be ‘authentic.’ “Authenticity is your most valuable asset. When you’re different and mostly being yourself, there is no one else like you. So, when you’re authentic, that is the most important thing you can ever do.” And aside music, Falana says she loves to read and exercise and watch documentaries. “But music is my life,” she said.