The Chairman of the Adamawa State Wing of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Rodney Nathan, has complained that primary school teachers in the state have not been promoted in the last 13 years. Nathan who made the complaint at the Mahmud Ribadu Square in Yola where the state NUT marked the World Teachers Day on Saturday, also said that within the same 13 years, “no leave transport grant, annual increment and upgrading of teachers was effected.” He said this had seriously affected the morale of the teachers and should be redressed with sense of urgency to save the education sector. “We need to be motivated. Not giving teachers their due is a way of driving them out of the profession. Government must avoid omissions that could cause a situation in which someday, pupils will go into their classrooms and not find teachers,” the NUT chairman warned. He however commended the administration of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of always promptly paying workers’ salaries and for other changes the administration has made since coming to be in May this year. He said, “We also want to commend you and your government for your wise decision to increase five years of service for science and English teachers across primary and post-primary schools and for paying post-primary school teachers their leave transport grant.” In his own speech, the Adamawa State Deputy Governor, Crowther Seth, who represented Governor Ahmadu Fintiri at the World Teachers Day celebration in Yola, said the government would always strive to address the complaints of teachers. He added that the government is sensitive to the need for teachers to be encouraged to give their best for effective education delivery, which is a priority of the government. He said, “In line with our campaign promise, education is receiving our priority attention. That is why we have declared free education at the primary and secondary school levels.” Highlights of the event were a match pass by teachers from each of the 21 local government areas of the state, and merit award presentation to three dignitaries for their contribution to the education sector. One of the awardees, Hon Abdurazak Namdas, who spoke on behalf of the awardees, announced that the National Assembly to which he belongs had represented for President Muhammadu Buhari’s signature the Bill for review of retirement age of teachers and education officers from 60 to 65 years.