The mood among Africa’s reinsurance executives has become more bearish as declining rates and rising claims weigh on the profitability of the reinsurance markets with premium volume of about $ 7.5 billion, a report has shown. The report from the fourth Africa Reinsurance Pulse, published at the 24th African Reinsurance Forum in Tunis, Tunisia, disclosed that while Africa’s economies are still recovering from the commodity crisis of 2016, which highlighted the continent’s vulnerability to external shocks, executives are once again concerned about the current outlook in light of renewed economic and political uncertainties. According to the report, this is the main outcome of the 4th edition of the Africa Reinsurance Pulse, which was published at today’s 24th African Reinsurance Forum in Tunis, Tunisia. The report read: “However, the senior executives of Africa’s leading brokers and reinsurers interviewed also expect that the inflow of excess capacity from advanced markets into the continent has finally come to a standstill. In fact, insured values as well as premiums might benefit from the current economic growth and outgrow GDP. Authors of the study at Dr. Schanz, Alms & Company, Andreas Bollmann and Henner Alms, said the market assessment among Africa’s reinsurance executives has deteriorated after it had already been on a road to recovery. “While rates, terms and conditions and profitability are low, Africa’s economic growth has improved somewhat and may translate into volume growth. But executives fear the next crisis may be lurking around the corner as rising trade barriers and a slow-down in appetite for Africa’s commodities cloud the outlook. With the report, we aim to present an overview of the current state and future prospects of Africa’s reinsurance markets and provide a comprehensive yet nuanced picture of market sentiment and track this over time. “The report is based on a survey of market practitioners, complemented with a summary of key regional (re)insurance market data and an overview of the most relevant trends shaping the region’s reinsurance markets, which according to our assessment surpassed last year’s reinsurance premium volume of US$ 7.5 billion. “The survey is based on 19 in-depth interviews with senior executives of regional and international reinsurance companies and brokers operating in Africa. The key strength of the Africa Reinsurance Pulse lies in its comprehensiveness, diversity and diligence. Our interviews have enabled us to probe deeper and obtain clarity from participating executives. In addition, by including both global and regional reinsurers, as well as traditional and niche players, we are able to collate a comprehensive view of the market place,” they noted.