NIGERIA international striker, Victor Osimhen, is named as one of the probable goal scorers for Lille on MatchDay two of the UEFA Champions League as the French League 1 side host the English Premier League side, Chelsea on Wednesday. Pipped 3-0 by Ajax on MatchDay one, Lille according to experts on the popular Football Live show, are condemned to win their next game  even as they singled out the  leggy Osimhen  to get among the goals. “Victor has been a very good buy for Lille and a good replacement for Pepe,” noted one of the commentators at the weekend. “He scored over 20 goals for Charleroi before   he was bought for Lille and he has shown his scoring qualities again since he arrived in France.  He is capable of scoring goals and one of those to watch out for in the Champions League game against Chelsea tomorrow.” Similarly, organisers of the Champions League (UEFA) have given Osimhen a head start  in Wednesday’s match to be played at the Stade Pierre Mauroy. UEFA on its website, noted that Lille and Chelsea both need three points to get back into Group H contention when they meet in northern France after losing their respective matches on MatchDay one. In a fascinating statistics for the match, UEFA noted the scoring prowess of the FIFA U-17 World Cup  record goal scorer thus: ”Having scored six of LOSC’s first eight goals this season, new signing Victor Osimhen is Ligue 1’s joint top scorer after eight games alongside Lyon’s Moussa Dembélé and Habibou Diallo of Metz. “Osimhen was the first player to score five goals or more in his first five Ligue 1 games since Mario Balotelli hit six in September/October 2016.” Meanwhile, Lille’s coach Christophe Galtier on the back of  an impressive 1-1 away draw against Nice in the French Ligue 1 at the weekend, is enthusiastic about the ability of his wards to clean up their act in Europe  since they remain winless in previous nine UEFA  home matches. “Will we be able to win in Nice then against Chelsea?“ the 53-year-old manager asked. “We work in that direction. We have signals that show that players are starting to arrive at a very interesting level.”