 AS the Olympic Eagles  depart Abuja  for Cairo on Thursday   for the 2019 Total U-23 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) to be held in Egypt between November 8 and 22,  mercurial midfielder Kelechi Nwakali  is confident Nigeria can successfully defend  the title. Apart from the trophy at stake, the quadrennial championship  also doubles as the qualifying tournament  for the Olympic Games with three  first  three team guaranteed automatic  tickets to Tokyo 2020 while the fourth-place finisher will battle against a team from the Asian Football Confederation in a play-off. “It wasn’t easy for us to pick one of the tickets to go to Egypt but we are going to give out our best  in Egypt, “ the erstwhile  Golden Eaglets’ captain said in an interview with NationSport. The  coach  Imama Amapakabo –led side have been  drawn in a seemingly tough Group B section complete with their bitter West African rivals Cote d’Ivoire  as well as Zambia and South Africa. Nigeria  will start their campaign on 9th November  at Al Salam Stadium in Cairo against  Cote d’Ivoire to be followed with  the games against Zambia on 12th November and South Africa on 15th November. “ Of course, none of our three games is going to be easy but all the same, we must respect the opponents and not believing we can ride on everybody because we are Nigerians,” explained the Spain-based Nwakali who plies his craft with SD Huesca.  “Our objective going to Egypt is to pick one of the tickets to the Tokyo 2020 Olympics and I believe strongly we are going to achieve our aims by working hard as a team; and individually by bringing out our best qualities to help the team grow.” Meanwhile, officials are still sweating over the arrival of  the Olympic Eagles’ captain Azubuike Okechukwu  who is yet to arrive  at the team’s Abuja camp   after other Overseas –based professional players including Nwakali, Tom Dele-Bashiru  of Watford FC and Orji Okwonkwo of Montreal Impact  have  since joined the camp. Impeccable sources close to the team informed that Okechukwu is expected to fly straight from his base in Turkey to Cairo  after a decisive Super Lig  home game for Istanbul Basaksehir against Ankaragucu on Sunday November 10. “ Okechukwu will most certainly join us in Cairo  because his club insisted on his presence for an important league match on November 10 and hopefully he can fly in to Cairo immediately after the match,” an official informed NationSport.