The report that the Federal Government has reached an agreement with Gallaudet University in the United States for the establishment of a University for the Deaf in either Abuja or Ogun State is a pointer to the fact that slowly but surely, the government is thinking about the education of the hitherto neglected segment of the Nigerian population, the deaf. They constitute a sizeable number of the Nigerian population that have individually tried to paddle their own canoe amongst the able bodied. The Gallaudet University is a federally chartered private university for the deaf and hard of hearing that was founded in 1864 initially as a grammar school for both blind and deaf children, and named after the founder, Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet. It is officially bilingual with American Sign Language and written English as means of instruction. What it means then is that over the past 155 years, the school has developed and produced worthy alumni. The school is the only one of its type globally. However, while we appreciate the effort of the government and the National Association of the Deaf to cater for the deaf by the establishment of the university, we belief that it might be a tad too premature and might prove very challenging equipping such a university that would be optimally valuable to both the deaf in particular, and the country in general. Nigeria has large populations of both the physically and mentally challenged that have been neglected over the years unlike their counterparts in the developed world. There is a huge number of the blind and those with physical disabilities and different grades of mental disabilities like autistic children and those with either cerebral palsy and down syndrome. We expect that the priority of the Federal Government should be an all-inclusive care and concern for all those with disabilities through policies and social re-orientation of a population that is largely fatalistic about disabilities in ways that the stigma and exclusions these groups suffer would be addressed comprehensively, to make them maximally productive and happy to be alive. At the moment, there are very few disabled people that are able to fully access education as most people, especially parents, believe such disabilities are spiritual punishments and as such they are left to fend for themselves through either begging or doing other menial jobs. The government can make their lives matter through deliberate policies and their implementation, as they are just as hungry for life and ready to contribute to national development. A dedicated university for the deaf in the country at the moment is a bit premature as the needed infrastructure and human capital are not in place. The deaf need professionals in sign language and the number in the country cannot be enough to pull through at a tertiary level at this time. Recruiting these professionals from other countries that have invested in their training might not be economically rewarding at this point of the country’s economic crisis. In the alternative, we recommend that while the country puts the establishment of the university in a future to-do-list, the immediate focus should be first to re-orientate the population to accept the physically and mentally challenged, make more policies and laws that would protect them, or if the existing ones are enough, see to a better implementation to impact fully on the targets. There ought to be laws compelling all town and building planners to create special stairways, walkways and dedicated car parks for the physically challenged. The government can equally subsidise the education of the physically challenged, including the deaf, and award scholarships to the talented ones, either academically or for other vocational studies that can equip them to earn a living for themselves rather than being dependent on parents or the larger society that treat them with some sense of caution because of a misbegotten cultural belief system . We commend the conception of the idea for a specialised university for the deaf but we feel that there is a reason the Gallaudet University is the sole such university in the world, given the enormous resources such an institution requires. Such an institution in Nigeria might turn out a white elephant project given the infrastructure and other logistical requirements to run it. We see how well we are running our regular universities. Such mindset does not show we are ready for specialised university like that for the deaf.