BY EMEKA UGWUANYI Mr. Kola Balogun is the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company Limited (MEMMCOL). In this interview with EMEKA UGWUANYI, he proffers solutions to sector issues. He notes that the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) licencees are not complying with regulatory directive of 30 per cent patronage of locally-manufactured meters as part of local content in the programme. Despite efforts and resources put into the power sector, its problems are still enormous. What really are the challenges of the sector? The power sector is faced with various challenges, including lack of leadership and rivalry among the operators of the value chain. By leadership, I mean somebody who has to take control and define the roadmap, perhaps the Minister of Power. He will ensure that the game is played according to the rules and all the participants complying accordingly. The person must define what the goal of the power sector reform is, which in my observation, is to ensure that power is made available to the general populace at a reasonable tariff. But today, what we have  are inter-agencies’rivalries, arrogance within the sector’s stakeholders. One segment would want to lord itself over others. It is important that the supervising ministry takes responsibility (leadership) of the entire power value chain. This is imperative because the problem of the power sector is more than classroom exercise. The solution will come from the people who know where the shoe pinches.  We are promoting a technology that does not belong to us while we are supposed to promote a technology that is created in-country and tailored to Nigeria’s peculiarity. Every nation encourages solutions to its peculiarities and domesticates its technology and capability. Our technology has the capability to address the power sector issues.  It is also heartwarming that the Federal Government recently increased the tariff on imported meters. I can tell you that none of the Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) has ever contacted me for the 30 per cent local content meter manufacturing involvement. They go ahead to pay Chinese companies 70 per cent for meter importation order but to pay a local company to supply meter is a problem. They don’t give us contracts. So, how would you encourage employment creation in the country and also address the deficiencies in the sector? How will we develop our technology capability? How can the power sector be improved? We need to enhance our infrastructure on the distribution value chain because power generation is increasing tremendously. The Federal Government is trying to spend more money on transmission, but the distribution network needs to be improved. We (the indigenous meter manufacturers)are providing a way forward to be able to improve distribution infrastructure. We are doing so by ensuring that all the substations are properly metered to reduce technical and commercial loss to the barest minimum. If there is meter in all customers’ premises and the network/infrastructure cannot support power delivery to them, it is a wasteful investment. In the metering sector, we (as a country) have to support and promote our locally developed technology, which is purely designed and made in Nigeria for Nigerians as against undue appetite for importation foreign technology (meters). The power sector should promote local content in order to grow capacity and capability. Therefore, the Ministry of Power needs to do more by calling on all the stakeholders to outline new roadmaps to achieve the optimisation and delivery of stable electricity to consumers at a fair tariff. I’m not against tariff review but the power must be available to consumers and the meters must also be available. You cannot install one per cent of smart meters in a substation that is supposed to take 90 per cent of smart meters, and do proper energy reconciliation. That’s why the most important thing in the distribution segment is provision of infrastructure and substations enhancement to stem technical and commercial losses. We have what can improve the off-grid and mini-grid systems to make power available 24/7. We need to start creating success story by ensuring uninterrupted power supply. That should be the new next level agenda for government. Also, there is need for the government to jail somebody for contravening of local content law and until some people are punished, everyone will not sit up and embrace the Local Content Act. There is need to create employment opportunities in the power sector to take the youths off the job market. We need to take our destiny in our hands. Since MAPS was launched in May, it doesn’t seem to be working. Also, it was alleged that some power equipment imported were still at the port due to high custom levy, what can you do about this? Meters importation is a contravention of the Local Content Act. If the regulation said you must  patronise 30 per cent  local content, it must be fulfilled it. They are quick to fulfill 70 per cent foreign meter importation, but unprepared to fulfill 30 per cent local order. I am confirming to you that none of the MAP licensees has approached me to buy meter in compliance with 30 per cent provided by regulation despite singing a memorandum of understanding (MoU). I can tell you that local manufactured meters have passed all the tests required, validated and confirmed for consumption by all agencies responsible for the testing. Therefore, they should pay for their negligence for importing meter without patronising locally manufactured meters. Is the importation of foreign meters affecting local meter manufacturers? Absolutely, the importation of foreign made meters is destroying local factory development or sustainability in Nigeria. Therefore, we should commend the effort of government for increasing the levy on imported meters. Border closure is yielding good results in the country. It has increased the production of local rice farmers, it is the same thing we need in the power sector. We need to take a bold step to show that that levy on imported meters remains because we have one of the best facilities for meter production in West Africa. I can boldly attest to the fact that metering can solve energy theft in Nigeria, be it bypass, revenue leakages and technical losses, among others. Do local meter manufacturers actually have the capacity to meet market demand? The same question was what some foreign investors who want to set up factories in Nigeria asked me.  They said the few factories set up in Nigeria have not been optimized to full capacity. First and foremost, we must prove that these people are not fulfilling the local requirements. Let me tell you the procedure of ordering a meter, if you want to order a meter from China today, you will be asked to pay 30 per cent, before the shipment. You will be asked to pay the balance of 70 per cent on shipment, which will take a minimum of three months but if they want to buy from the local companies, they will not give notice. What obtains is that they want to pay money and collect immediately. As we speak, I have over 20, 000 unsold meters in my factory. I cannot continue to produce when am not sure of patronage or supply order from the Map licensees. These are the issues we need to address. We must ensure everybody respects the sanctity of local content because we have the capacity to produce more than what we have presently. How can the government enhance local content in power sector as it is in the oil and gas industry? That is the responsibility of the entire power sector agencies, including the Ministry of Power. The ministry should call all the stakeholders, including the manufacturers and distribution companies (DisCos) and emphatically sound the importance of local content to them. The ministry also needs to chart a new roadmap in the sector on what is needed to achieve on a timely basis, the improvement required in the sector. It should ensure that distribution feeders are continuously improved with cost-reflective, uninterrupted power supply. There must be a centralised data-based system by the regulators to know the exact number of consumers, not just what the DisCos give. They should have supervisory council that will supervise the DisCos. We have the technology that can do that. The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) would have to effectively play its role.