Osagie Otabor, Benin  A BENIN-based lawer and Notary Public, Mr. Olayiwola Afolabi has donated a parcel of land and a keyboard to Pastor Destiny Eguavoen, who was beaten last week Sunday for defiling Urora community orders. Pastor Eguavoen was beaten and some of the church properties destroyed by youths of Urora community during the celebration of the annual Ikpoleki festival. The community had asked churches to end services by 8am but Pastor Eguavoen held his service till after 9am when irate youths stopped him and chased the church members away. Barrister Afolabi donated the items when he visited the church, City of God Rest Ministry to show support for standing firm. Afolabi commended the police and the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on the manner the issue was handled. He said that the incident would have degenerated to a breakdown of law and order. He said, “We thank God that police did not allow it to degenerate, you can see them here now to protect the church to forestall further activities. “There is freedom of worship, the law is there and I am also happy that CAN is working to ensure this does not happen again. “When I heard in the news media about what happened, how the church properties were destroyed I felt bad. I bought a new keyboard and its accessories. I bought a bag of rice for the pastor, I also gave him a piece of land 100ft by 100ft, I also vowed that I will give the pastor one suit per month from October to December and a pair of shoes. “This is a call also for other Christians, don’t hide your identity whether you are in government or anywhere let them know who you are.” On his part, Pastor Eguavoen said he appreciated God for what had happened. “I feel very great for this support from Barrister Afolabi. I am so grateful to God, I appreciating Him for touching Barrister Afolabi to be a blessing not only to the church but to myself and my entire family. God of heaven will continue to honour and take him far for identifying with us in this time.” 