THREE   issues   this  week   illustrate the topic of  today  quite  vividly. The  first  was   the   appeal of the Nigerian army   boss  General   T K  Buratai   calling on religious leaders in the country   to wage a spiritual  war  against    terrorism  especially  that of  Boko  Haram because it is  spiritual  teachings   and ideas   by  preachers   of      religion,  that makes  terrorists   and   suicidal  insurgents    difficult  to defeat  on the battle field. The  second was  the   70th  Anniversary  celebrations  of  the emergence  of Communist  China   in 1949,   with a military  parade pomp  and   pageantry   Beijing, China’s   capital  that  showed  vividly  that  communism has been  a successful  ideology  in terms of  the  leading role and immense  wealth of  China both in terms of economic growth and welfare of its people and  influence both domestically and globally. The  third  was the fury  and anger of US President   Donald  Trump  at a press  conference with  the visiting President of Finland   when  he   directed a questioning   journalist  to  ask  questions from  the visiting president   and proceeded to call  the questioner rude  and the US  media  largely  fake and corrupt. The  guiding principle   here   today  is that religion is regarded  as an ideology  by the Nigerian  army  boss and I  agree with him for our purpose  here . Whereas in China, which  is communist and atheist, religion is regarded    as  a huge    distraction   and the ideology of communism is the guiding light of the Communist  Party of China  which  has ruled China from  Chairman Mao 70 years ago,  to Chairman Xi  Jinping    who  proudly  took  the salute  from the same podium used  by  Mao70  years ago. In  the US of  the Trump   era,    the  ideology  is democracy which highlights respect for  freedom,   human rights   free speech  and press   freedom which was on collision course with the American president during his spat  with the press in the presence of a foreign president. Again, a common trend in  the three observations , ideas  or  insults   –  as in the  US  case –  is the threat  of not only    of     any  religion   or  ideology   to  get  militant  or weaponised   in advancing   its ideology or spread in any  nation or  community. That  is why in talking of religious leaders  or ideologists the Nigerian  army chief should  have spoken  specifically   of Islamist  preachers who  have used modern technology and especially hot selling video    messages to  spread  and propagate  their  violent  versions of Islam. This is the crux of the matter. While Islamophobia  is  spreading  in the west  and liberal  democracy is trying to contain it and make it politically  incorrect  for those who   condemn  it, it is also  difficult  for  military  leaders in Nigeria to highlight  the empathy of Nigerian soldiers  for Boko  Haram, given that it is basically an Islamic insurgency   to  which  Muslims can  basically  turn a blind  eye  to, in  spite of its bloody  terrorism in the North  East  of Nigeria. It  is Islamophobia  that  has  given  rise  to the increase of anti –  immigrants  populist  governments  in Europe like Hungary, Austria and Poland  who  have made  life  difficult  for  EU  leaders  on the protocols  of running  an integrated Europe  now  or in the future. Of  course  Donald  Trump  campaigned against immigration and banned migrants from some Islamic  nations  and even recently asked some American  lady  legislators to go back to the ‘shit nations’ they  came from when  they  criticized  his  immigration policy. However  in contrast  to all these China has zero  tolerance  for  religion and that is reflected in the way it is wickedly isolating the Uighurs a Muslim  caste in a part  of China. China  claims that it is orientating i the Muslim  tribe  on civil  education  and responsibility, but  it is really persecuting these  Muslims officially because  it does  not want to have   a problem of Islamic militancy  or insurgency  within its borders. That  again  is the reality of the matter   with  China as a communist  state that  does not want any competition between it  and any  ideology  be it political  or  religious. In  calling for spiritual  warfare  against Boko  Haram the  Nigerian army boss  should  be reminded that he was not the first military  leader  to do so. There  was a story  that  a  Nigerian army leader, later President, called for African leaders to mobilise  traditional  herbalists  and juju  practitioners  to  mobilise  their  forces  and spiritual  power  against  the  apartheid regime in S Africa when Nelson Mandela was incarcerated  for  27  years  on Robben  Island   by  the evil  racist  regime.   What  Gen Buratai  is saying  however   in calling    on spiritual  war fare against Boko  Haram  this time around I,   more pragmatic than  the S African  suggestion then  except  that  it   has  failed to hit the nail on the head in terms  of the  catalyst  for  Boko  Haram  which  are the militant Islamic scholars  spreading the ideology  of Islamic  militancy  not only in Nigeria  but  globally  nowadays. With  regard  to the spat  between the US president  and the media  at  the White House,   it  is necessary  to  look  at  the  matter dispassionately. Trump  was furious because   as   he said   he had   just  given a long explanation on the Ukraine /Biden  matter which  the journalist asked  about,  as if he was not there. The  American  President really showed that he has scant  respect for  those in the US media he branded fake and corrupt. If  as Trump  insisted the journalist  was rude,  he   too   was very  intolerant  and   bad tempered  in the presence of another president who  was his guest. In   this particular  situation the principle  of press freedom and free  speech  was  reduced  to  shambles   and  that  makes  one wonder as  to its quality in  terms  of creating a stable political  system in  an  atmosphere   where  anyone  can say  anything to anybody    and be deemed  to  be acting within his   or  her   rights. I  remember a saying in Political  Science  that says  -‘your  freedom ends where my  nose begins’.   Neither Trump  or the CNN journalist  seem  to have heard that  before,  in the   testy  question and answer  press  conference in the presence of the Finnish  president at the White House this  week. We  round up with China  which  proudly  displayed its culture and military   ware  in Beijing on October 1 which  incidentally  is Nigeria’s Independence Day too. The  Chinese definitely  were beating their chest  that  day  in terms of economic  progress, political  stability  and the emergence  of China as a diplomatic and economic  power  on the world stage . Apart  from  chasing the US and  Russia  as the military power  of the world,  China has  made huge progress in terms of trade and Information technology. Especially   in the realm of Artificial Intelligence which it has used greatly  to police its people and establish firm  law and order under  communist  rule. The  US’ fierce  trade  war with  China  is   a reaction to the success of China on trade and IT. The  tariffs  and the censorship of Huawei are America’s way  of showing its anxiety on the arrival  of the Chines dragon on the world scene as a potent rival  to American global  power, wealth  and military might. While  human  rights   may  matter, any nation with any ideology that makes life safe and well for its people deserve some commendation, no  matter  how  grudgingly it may  come.  Once  again, long live the Federal  Republic of  Nigeria. 