PASTOR Tunde Bakare, head of the Latter Rain Assembly, is a loud voice in preaching the gospel according to the bible. He is intelligent; he is knowledgeable; he is articulate and he is deeply concerned about the rot in our society and ever always striving to find ways to end the rot. Apparently not satisfied that he has shouted himself hoarse on the pulpit for decades without much change in the situation, he is driven by a desire to put his hands on the plough of national governance and run for the presidency himself. He once paired with the Abraham Lincoln of Nigeria, General Muhammad Buhari, to run for the presidency, but luck did not smile on him and his principal at that time until Buhari changed his pair to Professor Yemi Osinbajo and got his efforts crowned with success. If by Bakare’s admission, as reported in The Punch of Monday, September 30, 2019, that he would succeed Buhari in office, what point is he trying to make that he had seen that he would succeed Buhari, one year and seven months ago, and that the situation had not changed. I quote the Punch report, the rebuttal of which is not yet of public knowledge: “He, however, denounced social media reports linking his presidential ambition to the alleged scheme by the “cabal” in the Presidency to strip Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo of powers and render him irrelevant.” The Punch report went further: “Bakare said it was mischievous for “cyberspace libertarians” to go and unearth the clip of his Sunday, February 18, 2018 sermon where he declared that he would be Nigeria’s 16th President, Buhari being 15th, and linked it to Osinbajo’s alleged current travails in the hands of the cabal. They need to understand that I am a one-man army. I don’t need to join anyone to do any evil and never will I; you will always know where I stand on issues. Those who pull others down in order to get up will never get up. We don’t play games here; we declare the word. And if there’s any cabal of evil anywhere doing anything to suppress the people of this nation, God will frustrate the thoughts of the enemies; he will turn the wisdom of their horsemen back, in the mighty name of Jesus.” Further dissociating himself from the alleged scheme against Osinbajo by the cabal, Bakare declared that the “VP Osinbajo will have the last laugh, – they think I’m stupid – except he has violated his oath,” added the Punch newspaper report under reference. Pastor Bakare, our father-in-the-Lord, is too deep in the Scripture not to know what a line in the Holy Book admonishes us about, that in too much talking, blunder abounds. This fascinating Pastor is telling us in one breath that he will succeed Buhari (when VP Osinbajo has not said he’s not interested in succeeding his boss). He is also saying he is not after Osinbajo like the cabal, because he made his own revelation over a year ago. Who told him the cabal began their game one month ago (if at all it is true a cabal wants to see Osinbajo’s back from government)? It is perfectly legitimate for Pastor Bakare or any qualified citizen for that matter, to aspire to the presidency of this nation. It is everyone’s privilege and right. If Bakare believes he is ordained to emerge after Buhari, it is evident he is interested in ousting Osinbajo. He is therefore no better than any cabal that has had enough of the VP at the Aso Villa seat of government, and therefore does not need to quibble about whether he is in the same company as any cabal. Conscience is an open wound; only the truth can heal it is a time-honoured statement. Whether Pasor Bakare is part of, or not part of, a cabal on Osinbajo, he should keep his gun-powder dry until the electoral law permits open electioneering. Then, beyond a press conference at which his amiable wife was present, he will need more explaining to do on why he is better than Osinbajo or any other South Westerner interested in the topmost position.