Osagie Otabor, Bénin  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State has said that it would not zone its governorship candidate slot to any senatorial district. It also said it would not zone position of its state chairmanship that would be become vacant in March next year. Arising from a stakeholders meeting hosted by former Governor Lucky Igbinedion, the Edo PDP said the decision not to zone any positions both for the governorship and party chairmanship was to allow the best emerge. A press statement issued by State Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, said the meeting discussed the party’s roadmap to 2020. Nehikhare said the party agreed that it was the responsibility of the National working Committee to conduct congresses that will usher in a new Exco at the end of the tenure of the present executive. According to him, “It was resolved that the Chairman at the earliest possible time will liaise with the National working committee (NWC) to know the time table for Edo congresses coming up in 2020. “It was also resolved that the positions of chairman and governorship will not be zoned as the party must seek for the best materials for both positions irrespective of senatorial district. “Unity, peace and fairness was canvassed by all the leaders. With the problems in APC, marketing and expanding the PDP frontiers has become imperative.” Speaking to newsmen after the meeting, Senator Victor Oyofo, said it was to define the future of the PDP and prepared it to recapture the governorship position in Edo state come 2020. Oladele Bankole-Balogun stated that “the best candidate, the best person to run the affairs of this state will be chosen by the majority of people in this party.” Governorship aspirant, Barr. Kenneth Imasuangbon, Barr Kenneth Imansuagbon, said the meeting was for them to strengthen their ties, unify the party and make it strong. “We are stronger than ever, make no mistake about 2020; PDP is coming, Imansuagbon is coming. This meeting is about the poverty in Edo state, the roads that are bad, the jobs that our children don’t have, the floods that have taken homes away. I can tell you that APC is gone and gone forever in this state”