The US State Department estimates there are 24.9 million human trafficking victims worldwide. This does not occur only in dark alleys. It is happening around the world every day. Human trafficking is considered modern-day slavery and there are more slaves today than at any time in history. People are forced into harsh employment under horrible conditions, and then have no freedom to leave. They are beaten, violated and told they are worthless—that no one else wants them anymore. ”Once a victim who only identified herself as Mary from Imo State Nigeria spoke to our correspondent her ordeal how she was lured by a friend to come meet her in India. “I was working with Shoprite in one of the Lagos branches where I was earning up to N50,000 monthly and I was doing well in my own little way, not until my long-time friend [name unknown] asked me, babe, what are you still doing in Nigeria where nothing works? “She promised to bring me over to India in three months adding that the process is going to be free that I don’t need to spend any money because the company will take care of my coming,” Mary said. “My one month in India was fine and I was hoping to get a job. Two months later, I was forced into prostitution the job my best friend promised me was all lies. “I was told that they spend N900,000 for my process coming to India that I need to pay back the money and if i failed I will be jailed,’ i got scared and had no other choice than stick to their threat. “My stay in India for two years was a nightmare, I managed to pay off my debt after that I returned to Nigeria early 2019.” Poverty Poverty alone does not necessarily create vulnerability to trafficking, but when combined with other factors, these can lead to a higher risk of being trafficked. Like in Africa where over 75% are poor and can not afford a better life for themselves and families. These ends as a result of many taking the risk of traveling to the US, Canada, Europ for a better living. Human trafficking has become rampage in West Africa like Nigeria where you see young Nigerians deceived by traffickers promising them jobs in Europe and Spain and at the end many of them will end up being sold as a slave in Libya. Poor governance In the case where bad government, corruption, lack of human right, economic disruption, family disruption, lack of access to education and jobs, insecurity takes over the country and the rate of human trafficking will be high. It’s A Lucrative Industry Along with illegal arms and drug trafficking, human trafficking is one of the largest international crime industries in the world. A report from the International Labor Organization (ILO) says forced labor generates $150 billion in illegal profits per year. Two-thirds of that money came from commercial sexual exploitation, while the rest is from forced economic exploitation, including domestic work, agriculture, child labor, and related activities. Every continent in the world has been involved in human trafficking, Human trafficking is both a domestic and global crime, with victims trafficked within their own country to neighboring countries and between continents. Victims of trafficking can be of any age and any gender Women and children are often used for sexual exploitation, while men are more likely to be used for forced labor. Globally, about one in five victims of human trafficking are children. Children are also exploited for the purposes of forced begging, child pornography or child labor. All over the world, people are on the move. Many have been forced to become migrants because of conflict and economic instability.