Lafarge Africa on Wednesday said the demand for its materials and solutions are driven by global population growth, urbanisation, improved living standards and sustainable construction. It also said leveraging innovative expertise has helped to provide value-added products and  solutions in the building and construction industry in the country. Its Chief Executive Officer, Michel Puchercos who spoke during the re-launch of Lafarge Africa’s  improved Elephant Supaset Cement in Lagos, said the demand for LafargeHolcim materials and solutions are driven by global population growth, urbanisation, improved living standards and sustainable construction. Around 75,000 people work for the company in around 80 countries. ‘The introduction of this improved formulation – Supaset is in line with the ‘Growth’ pillar of Lafarge Africa’s Strategy 2022 – Building for Growth – which aims to drive profitable growth and accelerate our performance in key areas. Providing such a product for our customers is in keeping with our commitment to excellence. This is a remarkable moment and great achievement that we all are proud of. turing sector. Our global presence and Research Centre in Lyon, France provides a unique opportunity for us to deliver in line with best practices and create innovative products and solutions that deliver more value to our customers.’ ‘The new Supaset is a solution to the long yearnings of our customers, especially block makers who have lost investments as a result of cement products that do not guarantee the strength needed for construction of buildings and other strong high concrete construction works.” he said. Commercial Director of Lafarge Africa Plc, Mr. Gbenga Onimowo said the new product is in response to customer needs and in line with global industry standards. ‘We launched Supaset because we have a unique understanding of the needs of our customers and our end users. With our access to global best practices, innovative solutions from the LafargeHolcim group, we were able to identify and introduce Supaset to take the lead and provide real solutions in construction. We understand the huge losses that people have to deal with due to the lack of cement formulation that guarantees fast setting and superior quality.’ he said. “Supaset, just like the name rightly suggests, is a rapid-setting cement that enables blocks dry and set fast, while retaining its quality and ensuring no cracks and breakages thus making it the only cement with such capabilities in the market today. The desire to further secure and grow our market share within this segment took us back to the drawing board and the result is what we are experiencing today, the re-launch of an improved Supaset. Supaset has superior value, sets fast and enables the production of ready to use blocks within 24 hours. “This improved formulation has been tried, tested and is trusted by all our customers, including block makers. The brands unique value propositions of Supa strong, Supa quality & Supa Value guarantees that Supaset is the ideal choice for high strength concrete for advanced construction works. Lafarge Africa continues to lead in innovation and creativity, we are equally proud to present this newly improved product in horizontal cement bags, the first-of –its-kind in Nigeria.’’ In addition to launching the new look bag and an improved product performance; Lafarge Africa is also rolling out a new Marketing Communications campaign across conventional and new media channels.