Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf in this report recounts the strides being recorded by the Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule in the area of governance, much of which has been driven by technological innovation. One of the state’s desirous of becoming Nigeria’s version of the much talked about Silicon Valley is Nasarawa State. An ambitious dream no doubt, but the state government under Engineer Abdullahi Sule holds the view and very strongly too that it is indeed achievable. To convince Doubting Thomas’s that this is not mere wishful thinking, the governor has since set machinery in motion for the actualisation of that overtly ambitious goal. During the political hustings, at one of the gatherings, the governor had assured that his vision is not only anchored on industrialisation of Nasarawa State but also turning the entire state into the industrial and economic hub of the North-Central zone in Nigeria as this, is capable of addressing the twin challenges of youths and women unemployment as well as poverty. “My vision for the state is anchored on industrialisation. Our desire is to make Nasarawa the industrial and economic hub of the North-Central zone in Nigeria. We are convinced that this policy is capable of addressing the challenges of unemployment of youth and women, wealth creation, as well as boost economic activities in the state,” the governor said at another forum. Besides, he said he envision Nasarawa as a top three most competitive state in Nigeria by 2023 in terms of sustained accelerated growth, increased economic opportunities and prosperity, social inclusion, and improved quality of lives of the citizenry. Signs that the governor meant business was apparent after the general elections earlier in the year as he constituted what was regarded as a tag team, he safely christened ‘The Economic Advisory Council,’ to drive development across the state. Thankfully, four months down the line, some modest successes have been recorded. “Barely four months in office, the fact that his hands-on approach to governance and strives to promote investment and buoy the economy in Nasarawa State has further encouraged him not to rest on his laurels,” an observer said. In the view of many, economic activities in Nasarawa state are in upward swing as can be seen at al tiers of government. According to observers, the governor has shown his administration’s commitment to deliver good governance through innovative programmes that have direct bearing on the lives of people in the state. As to be expected, the received wisdom is that the governor’s background as a private sector person perhaps may have influenced his style such that he is leveraging on his networth of investors, local and foreign, to attract their capital for the industrialisation of Nasarawa State. “We have developed a policy framework ‘Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy’ that sets out the major initiatives to be rolled out by this Administration over the next five years. It also outlines the potential benefits to the public and our community at large,” said an upbeat Governor Sule. The Economic Advisory Council, he noted, is peopled by individuals with vast expertise in different walks of life, including Prof Konyisola Ajayi from Ogun State who chairs the group, Abubakar Balarabe Mahmoud (SAN), Dr Adeyemi Dipeolu, Chief Roberts Orya, Dr George Manuike, Dr Lazarus Angbazo, among others. Expatiating, he recalled that his administration set up a think tank which identified key areas requiring urgent attention. “When we came on board we identified about 14 areas of interest as a major plank of pour intervention.” Upbeat, he said, the state has achieved some modest successes thus far in the area of special education, infrastructural development amongst others. “We have seen the completion of most of the project most especially for the skill acquisition centre, especially education technical education and then most of the primary and secondary schools that were initiated by the former administration has been completed, some are still on and we have given new ones,” he said. He added that this present government is determined to create a flourishing innovation and technology environment, saying “We are determined to remain at the cutting edge of ICT development and maintain a highly efficient ICT infrastructure and good business for innovation environment.” He noted further that “Within our first 100 days in office we have transformed Nasarawa state into technology and innovation destination choice of young techpreneurs by creating five ICT Innovation Hubs across five Local Governments in the state across the three Senatorial Zones. “Our State e-libraries are equipped with over 40 million e-resources. We entered into Partnership with JAMB and established three Computer Based Test (CBT) centers with 2,250 computers and capacity to conduct computer based examination for 6,750 candidates on a daily basis. “We have deployed e-health at the state tertiary health care institution. The Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital (DASH). Our commitment to deploy ICT to all sector of the economy has helped the health facilities in the State to capture, organise, maintain and retrieve patient’s medical records with ease.” Sule disclosed further that “Our government intent to upgrade and implement the State Integrated Financial Management Information System (SIFMIS) of State and Local Government Reform Project (SLOGOR). “We have embarked on training and retaining of all civil servants in the State for efficient use of ICT and have entered into partnership with NITDA to improve ICT penetration in the State where women will be empowered with free computers. “The state is in the process of developing a Web 4.0 digital media platform with a digital channel through which citizens can access documents, information, comment and get immediate feedbacks on issues of governance in the State. “We are scheduled to commence the creation of ICT parks across the 13 local government area of the state. The ICT parks would serve the training centre for young school leavers and fresh graduate, preparing them for the 21st century ICT demands and to acquire entrepreneurial skills.” In the governor’s thinking, “The world’s three largest companies by market capital are all ICT-related, ICT is now at the soul and the heart, as well as the spine of the new economic order. For us to achieve our vision we have to leverage on ICT.” Expectedly, the governor’s modest success have started attracting recognition as he was recently honoured with an award as the Most Promising Governor in Nigeria by the Face of Democracy Nigeria while the State received an award as the ‘Most outstanding State government in digital capacity initiative for economic transformation.’ While commenting on the governor’s giant stride, his media minder, Yakubu Lamai in a statement said Governor Sule is committed to live up to the expectations of the award by delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of the state. According to Lamai, the governor declared that he will live up to and exceed the expectations of Nigerians as he fulfils the hopes and dreams of the people of the state to surpass the benchmark of FDN Nigeria who conferred on him a Democracy Hero Award recently. “He vowed not to rest now that he has been honoured, but continue working even harder to bring to bear governance that is accountable, inclusive, innovative and futuristic to better the lives of the people of Nasarawa State. Receiving the award as the Most outstanding State government digital capacity initiative for economic transformation in Lagos, Sule said, “During my inaugural speech I made it known to the whole world that we will uphold the principles of good governance as a cardinal objective of this administration, we will establish systems, processes and institutions that will enhance transparency, probity and accountability in the management of state resources in line with International best practices.” The organisers of the award said the governor emerged after a painstaking due diligence and poll research conducted amongst other state executives across the country. The award, tagged, ‘Africa Digital Heroes Award’ now in its 20th year, is the brain child of Dr. Bayero Agabi, frontline journalist and ICT expert. In the estimation of many political watchers, the different strides being recorded by the governor are indeed testament to his sagacity and industry. Perhaps this is true.