Oando and its JV partner, Energia have established social impact initiatives in its host community of Kwale, Delta State, through which three per cent of its gross revenue is set aside for the development of host communities and managed by two trust boards comprising experienced professionals from the community, the government and the JV. One of such initiatives is the recently concluded three-day community medical outreach in Kwale, themed ‘Health is Wealth’. The initiative is the JV partners’ first ever medical outreach in Kwale, Ndokwa West Council Area of Delta State where it operates the Ebendo/Obodeti marginal field, OML 56. The event commenced at the Ebendo Health Centre and proceeded to Obodougwa, Isumpe, Umusadege, Umusam and Ugbani communities in Kwale. To reiterate the importance of Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) to its company,  Babafemi Onasanya, General Manager, Sub Surface, representing the Chief Operating Officer, Ainojie Irune, of Oando Petroleum Development Company said; “As a JV we believe that it is important to impact these communities positively. We want to show, through leading by example that you can be proudly indigenous, profitable and at the same time make the world a better place. We must deliberately always give back to our own.” The Chief Medical Director (CMD), Central Hospital, Kwale, Dr. Gabriel Abanum, representing the Delta State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Emordi Ononye in his remarks, praised the Energia/Oando JV  partnership with its host communities in pursuit of the WHOSDG3, which includes grassroots healthcare provision for all. He said the development tallies with the state government’s investment in the health sector like free maternal care, free care for all under-five year olds. The initiative is also in tandem with government’s free HIV screening and treatment and the health contributory commission, where all civil servants registered to assess care free of charge. He said the state has even gone further to accommodate those from the informal sector to give residents a full complement of health all year round.” He further described the relationship between the company and Emu-Ebendo as a model to be emulated. The medical outreach is aimed at achieving the World Health Organization Sustainable Development Goals 3 (WHOSDG3), in providing access to basic healthcare to its communities. Initiatives based in communities can have widespread effects. Not only can they transform the communities in which they are located, but they can act as seedbeds for similar programs elsewhere.