The Students Union (SU), Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, in collaboration with Spine Communications Limited, has held its  yearly cultural festival amid pomp and pageantry. The festival tagged: ‘UNIZIK Oji Ofor cultural festival 2019, held at Library field, was part of the institution’s SU Week. Speaking during the event, Managing Director, Spine Communications, Dr. Emeka Okeke, said the festival was organised in local communities to harness citizens towards stimulating and driving local economic growth while promoting cultural values. Said Okeke: “At the festival, multiple micro and small businesses get the opportunities to showcase their products and services to a large crowd of potential customers in one location. ‘’Oji Ofor festival offers the university community opportunity to come together to celebrate one another while being encouraged to be the primary brand ambassadors of UNIZIK.’’ According to him, a lot of quality research as well as infrastructural development is required to achieve the management’s vision of making UNIZIK among the 200 outstanding universities in the world via its Vision 200 mandate. He added: “We plan to amplify publicity of the UNIZIK brand and attract the right strategic partners and resources to make Vision 200 a reality. “Previous festivals have been organised in local communities like Adazi-Ani in Anaocha Local Government Area of Anambra State. “This is our first time in a university community. Once we deliver the anticipated level of academic, research and economic growth, we will begin expanding to other university communities.” The SUG President of the institution, Comrade Joseph Okafor said the festival was meant to promote cultural heritage of Ndigbo and inculcate same in the lives of the youths. He said the occasion aimed to emphasisse among the youths, their cultural source and keep in touch with same. He explained that SU extended hands of partnership to Spine Communications as they could not achieve the desired result alone. Dignitaries that graced the occasion included Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Anambra Broadcasting Service, Chief Uche Nworah, Director of UNIZIK Confuscius Institute, Prof. Prof Yu Zhangbao, UNIZIK Public Relations Officer, Dr. Emma Ojukwu and Dean Students Affairs, Prof Stanley Udedi. Highlight of the event was the conferment of titles on some distinguished son of the land as well as the raffle draw that drew winners from the students in attendance. The event also featured cultural and masquerade displays, wrestling contest, native food sampling, eating of new yam and a friendly football match. Among the winners were Shedrack Chinedu, Chiamaka Okafor, Stella, Anthony Chidi, who won plasma TV, rechargeable fans, generators, among other items. Other prizes given to winners of different raffle draw were free transport tickets. Photo: Students pose in their traditional attires