The redevelopment of the Alaba Rago market, Lagos, went underway on Monday, with the Chairman of the Local Government Princess Ramot Rachel Adedayo Oseni, urging the people to continue to support the state government’s urban renewal aspirations. Unveiling the new proposed market to stakeholders made up of traditional rulers, led by the Oniba of Iba Oba Adedayo Oseni, leaders of the Hausa traders community, led by the Seriki Hausawa of Iba, Alhaji Umaru Sokoto, Igbo and Yoruba traders at the Iba Town Hall, Princess Oseni said the project which would be delivered within 18 months is aimed at improving the trading conditions at the market which she said has remained deplorable. She said: ”The present condition in our markets have remained an embarrassment and is grossly unbefitting of the megacity and emerging smart city state like Lagos. That is why we are happy that a developer would like to work with us in improving the standard of the market.” She urged all traders in the market to cooperate with the contractor in order to ensure that the pace of the project is not impeded. In his goodwill message a community leader and former Commissioner for Rural Development Mr Cornelius Ojelabi urged the people, especially the Hausa community to support the aspirations of the council. Former member House of Assembly Hon Toyin Suarau lauded the council for the courage to embark on the ambitious project. Suarau who was a one time Chairman of the local government regretted that he could not embark on the project in his time as a result of paucity of funds and stiff resistance of the traders. He therefore pleaded with them not to scuttle the redevelopment idea as it remains the only way to bring development to the area and improve the quality if life of people in the local government. Suarau allayed the fears of traders saying no one would be displaced once the project is finished. Another community leader Hon Adoi Saheed, formrr member House of Assembly, urged the contractor to abide with whatever agreement it reaches with the people and ensure that the prices of the new shops are not beyond the reach of the people.