An Igbosere High Court in Lagos has adjourned till October 25 for a Danish man, Peter Nielsen, to open his defence to a double murder charge. Nielsen, 54, is standing trial for the April 5, last year death of his Nigerian singer wife, Zainab and their three-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Petra. The Lagos State government accused the Dane of smothering Zainab and Petra to death at about 3:45am at No. 4, Flat 17, Bella Vista Tower, Banana Island Ikoyi. Nielsen was arraigned on June 13, 2018 on two counts of murder contrary to Section 223 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. He denied the charge. Lagos State Solicitor-General and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice Ms. Titilayo Shitta-Bey closed the government’s case on Friday, September 20. Justice Okikiolu Ighile fixed October 25 for trial to continue. Last Friday, defence counsel, Mr Olasupo Shasore (SAN) cross- examined the prosecution’s ninth witness Dr. Idem Richard Somiari. Somiari stated that the defendant’s DNA was found in the apartment and on Zainab’s night gown, but neither on the body of his deceased daughter, nor in the kitchen where the bodies were discovered. The expert also stated that they found the DNA of an unknown female in the kitchen. When confronted that the crime scene investigation and forensic DNA analysis was deliberately aimed at gathering evidence and arriving at results showing that the defendant was guilty of the murder, Somiari denied it. Somiari stated that the forensic DNA team took steps to prevent contamination of the crime scene by putting on gloves, shoe covers, and disposable laboratory coats. But when he was later shown photographs from his visit to the crime scene, he admitted that some members of the DNA team did not put on the protective gear. Somiari was also unable to account for the number of people that had access to the crime scene in the period between the discovery of the bodies and the examination of the crime scene by forensic experts. The prosecution witness also informed the court that samples for DNA analysis were only taken from three occupants of the apartment; the defendant and the two deceased persons even though six people lived in the apartment at the time of the murder.