Total Nigeria Plc has hosted in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital 40 pupils and their teachers drawn from across schools its yearly Total Job Shadow – a corporate social responsibility (CSR) educational initiative, Emeka Ugwuanyi reports Total Nigeria Plc has hosted its yearly Total Job Shadow – a corporate social responsibility (CSR) educational initiative where students are brought into the company’s facilities to experience firsthand, a work environment and participate in a series of carefully selected educational activities, including a leadership session. This year’s Total Job Shadow was hosted by the Port Harcourt Area Office had in attendance 26 employees of Total, 40 pupils from four schools in the Port Harcourt area, their teachers and representatives of the Ministry of Education. Total Nigeria Managing Director Mr. Imrane Barry engaged the pupils in an interactive leadership session, followed by a mentoring. The students were attached to the workers for real work experience and ask questions with some students getting to experience field activities with their assigned mentors. An interactive quiz and prize presentation rounded off the sessions. Barry reiterated Total’s commitment to “supporting the Nigerian child through projects that provide them with the tools to make informed decisions about their career choices.” He said: “We live in a dynamic world; jobs in the future are becoming increasingly diverse, technology is at the forefront of innovative organisations and as such, we must ensure that every Nigerian child is given the guidance to become a productive member of society through their ability to innovate and remain relevant’.’’ ’Through the Total Job Shadow, we are exposing students to a day at work with Total Nigeria’s employees. It is important that the students do not only learn about our operations, but also see how our managers, engineers, petrol station managers, accountants and customer service teams carry out their jobs.” He was optimistic that “this initiative will help inspire and guide them to making the right career choices as well as realising their potential”. The Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Education, Mr. Adonye Dagogo-Hart, represented by Mrs. Chinedu Wordu and Mrs. Betsy Abibo appreciated Total for its contribution to the promotion of quality education as well as opening its doors to students in the state. The Executive General Manager, Total Country Services, Mrs. Bunmi Popoola-Mordi, said the Total Job Shadow is “part of our company’s commitment to its communities while also being one of the four focus areas of the Total Foundations citizenship commitment: Youth Inclusion & Education.” Mrs. Weruche Nwagbara, the Territorial Sales Manager, thanked participants. She charged the students to make the best use of the rare insight they had experienced. For the 40 senior secondary school pupils, accompanied by teachers, it was a novel experience. Participating schools were: Government Secondary Elekahia; Community Secondary School AmadiAma; Community Secondary School, Oginigba and Government Technical College, Rainbow Town. Since starting the Total Job Shadow Programme in 2014, Total has successfully hosted schools across Lagos, Kaduna, Delta, Kano and  Rivers states.