Greenhouse farms is becoming the alternative that is making agriculture more attractive to local farmers, especially those with some means. OSAGIE OTABOR writes about one such farms which would soon begin to earn big, exporting tomatoes and pepper The quest by the Federal Government to move the economy from oil dependent is gradually producing results. More Nigerians are seeing the wisdom in returning to agriculture. The Buhari administration is promoting agriculture as the nation’s new economy. In Edo State, agriculture is gaining ground as the first GreenHouse Farm is set to export tomatoes and pepper. Last year, the Wells Hosa Greenhouse Farm, owned by billionaire Captain Hosa Okunbo, showcased to the world its first harvest of vegetables, tomatoes and pepper. But the ban on importation of inorganic fertiliser is threatening the existence of the farm. Sitting on a 26-hectare, the Wells Hosa Greenhouse grows the roma, cherry and beef tomatoes, bell peppers, albanaro peppers and cucumbers. The crops are not grown on soil, but on coconut fibre, through the adoption of hydroponic technology. There are 14 greenhouses on the farm. To ensure an all-year round harvest, the greenhouses are divided to serve the cycle from nursery to harvest. Farm’s General Manager Franklin Owegie, who conducted reporters round the farm, said proper sterilisation is carried out to avoid diseases or pests affecting the plants. Owegie explained that the tomatoes and pepper grown on the farm were originally cultivated in Mexico but with the use of technology, they were successfully grown in Edo State. He said computerised irrigation, fertilisation and pest control are important to achieve optimal plant growth and higher yield compared with the traditional open field method of producing tomatoes and pepper. He said: “As you observed, we sterilised your cars before you drive in. Before workers or anybody enters any of the greenhouses, they must be sterilised. All the nutrients the plants need are prepared and supplied through the irrigation system. Each plant has its own drip point so the plant gets the nutrients it needs. “This is the first successful hydroponic green house in Nigeria. It has been working since August last year and we are still expanding. For us, this is like a pilot project. We harvest twice a week, there is no scarce season, it is an all -ear round harvest. “Instead of using natural ground where you have all the challenges, rather we are growing it with all the nutrients and giving it all the fertilisers it requires unlike how it is done in the open field. “All we are doing by creating a controlled environment is to have better yields. The plant doesn’t have to interact with the soil to avoid all the diseases. With this, we have high yield, we harvest all-year round and that is one of the advantages. It is expensive but, however, greenhouse farming can meet the food needs of Nigerians. “The good thing is that whatever you are planting you are surely going to meet the food needs of the people, it is just like investing in solar energy which has high investment but at the end of the day you get your return on investment. “Our nutrition solution centre is equipped with modern gadgets where the mixtures for nutrients are done. The fertiliser centre is also where the PH of the nutrition solution mixture is done.” The ban on the importation of inorganic fertilisers has forced the cost of production at the farm to increase in astrometric progression. As the crops do not grow on soil, all the required nutrients are from chemicals and inorganic fertilisers and they must be supplied in the right quantity. Non- availability of inorganic fertilisers might lead to  loss of jobs at the farm. Managing Director of Wells Hosa Greenhouse farms Mr. Bright Okunbo said greenhouse farmers in Nigeria may be forced out of business, if alternatives to get inorganic fertilisers are not available. According to him, “the most challenges we have observed in the past one year is getting the right input when it comes to chemicals and fertiliser at the right time and from the right sources. When we started the farm, we got NAFDAC’s permit to import inorganic fertilisers and end user certificate to enable importation of inorganic fertilisers, which is one of our major input for our irrigation system. Even if it took us a lot of process to have that done, but when we did, we were able to import any time we wanted within that one year period when the licences were valid. “Currently, with the new ban on importation of inorganic fertilisers, no bank will issue Form M for you to import. Most of the inorganic fertilisers are not available in Nigeria. That is our major challenge right now. Without those fertilisers and right chemicals, we will not be able to operate. There is no substitute for this. I cannot use organic fertilisers to run my farm because I am not planting on soil. I don’t have anything that will be pulling the micro nutrient or microorganism that is available in the soils. This is different because I have to introduce  every micro, macro nutrients and inorganic fertilisers by myself in the right quantity. If I don’t do all of these, I will not be able to operate. That is our biggest challenge. “As it stands, I have no alternative to the problem right now. There just has to be a way where we can either have a company that produces these fertilisers in Nigeria or open up the borders and allow importation of these fertilisers. With this development, our workers’ job is not only at stake, my job and the company is at stake. If I cannot import and there is no alternative, then there is a huge problem. “I am just hoping that this will last for a short time for government can look at ways we can have access to it so that pioneers like us can have access to the input that we need. “We have started talking to the relevant authority and we are looking at all the alternatives to get out of this predicament. I am, however, optimistic that government will do something urgent because we are not the only greenhouse farm in Nigeria affected by this. I think there is need to protect this and as one of the non-oil sector that contribute to the nation’s development. I don’t think government will want greenhouse technology to pull out of business in Nigeria”. Bright, however, stated that the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has been supportive in trying to see how the farm can get to export level so it can generate foreign exchange. He said the National Agency of Quarantine Services has certified the products of Wells Hosa okay for export. “Some policies are making it favourable for us to get to the status to export outside of the country. The people know our product. They know it is distinct. They know it is different from others. Anybody that has used our tomatoes for stew know the difference between Hosa Wells tomatoes and others in the market. They are willing to pay a little more than what they pay for regular tomatoes because they are getting value in … taste and quality. The yellow orange albanaro pepper we introduced to the market is distinct. When we first introduced it, the people were a little hesitant to try something new but as I speak, I don’t have my harvest sitting on the ground. I harvest twice in a week and before I am through with the harvesting, customers are waiting to get them.’’ On the future of Wells Hosa Green House farm, Bright said they hoped to replicate the greenhouse facility in different geo-political zones. “The Green House can be established anywhere. Edo State is one of the most difficult places to establish a Green House farm because of the heavy rainfall. During the rainy season, it is always cloudy, there is less radiation, it affects the size and quantity of the produce. We have been able to mitigate that problem here in Edo. If I am doing this good in the worst place, then if I take the Green House to Abuja, Kaduna, then I will do …better. We want to establish different Green Houses across the country where we can grow other crops other than just tomatoes and pepper. We now grow the Roma tomatoes, the bell pepper, the cherry tomatoes, beef tomatoes and albanaro pepper.”