By Robert Egbe  A Federal High Court in Lagos, on Wednesday directed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to produce a retired Navy Captain Dada Labinjo in court on December 2. Justice Muslim Hassan made the order following the arraignment of 12 persons, a vessel and two limited liability companies, for allegedly illegally dealing in petroleum products. The defendants include MT Adeline, Mrs. Bola Labinjo, Jonathan Abaka alias Joy Boy, Charles Ikemefuna, Benjamin Gold Gageche, Hamzat Yakubu, Emmanuel Oputa, and Peter Dung Pule. Others are Innocent Akpan, Kehinde Labinjo, Pius Matthew Paul, Onoja Emmanuel, Adeleke Hamed, Global Shipping Activities Bureau Ltd and Labland and Sea Services Ltd. The defendants were arraigned by the EFCC on a two-count charge of conspiracy to commit felony to wit: illegal dealing in petroleum products. The anti-graft agency alleged that the defendants sometime in 2018, conspired with Segun Sahiyu, Ogunmoyero Oluwaseun Eric, Akpan Friday Itoro, Mr. Richard, Captain Felix, Captain Jude, Engineer Teddy, Mr. Michael, MT Juko, Captain Dada Olaniyi Olabinjo, all said to be at large, to commit the alleged illegal act. EFCC counsel Mrs. Oluwakemi Yemi-Makinde said the offences contravened Section 17(a) &(b) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act 2004. Each defendant pleaded not guilty. The team of defence counsel, including Mr. Jerry Omoregie, Kolawole Salami, Odo R. U and A. Aruwayo told the court that Mrs. Olabinjo, Abaka, Benjamin and Yakubu were arraigned in August on the same allegations and granted bail by Justice Chuka Obiozor. They prayed the judge to admit the defendants to bail on the same terms. Prof Obiozor granted their application. He admitted the other defendants to bail in the sum of N10 million with one surety in the like sum each, among other conditions. He fixed December 2, for hearing of the vessels’ bail applications, and commencement of all the defendants’ trial. The defence also informed the judge that the security agents had refused to release Captain Labinjo, who was said to be at large in the charge, despite an order of a Federal High Court, compelling them to do so. Justice Hassan directed the EFCC to find Labinjo and produce him on December 2.