Seven years after world renowned tennis sisters, Serena and Venus Williams’ paid a historic visit to Nigeria, GODWIN KIENKA, ITA Director, finally reveals how he managed to convince the legendary duo to come to Nigeria. He spoke with Adeyinka Akintunde.  The visit of tennis super stars, Venus and Serena Williams, in 2012 remains fresh in the memory of Nigerians. The sports icons were in Lagos to inspire women and youths to follow their dreams and achieve success. While in Nigeria, they had an interactive session with girls from selected schools in Lagos and also played against each other at the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club. The brain behind their visit, Godwin Kienka, director of the International Tennis Academy (ITA), said their visit to Nigeria was in response to a campaign against the bad publicity black players were suffering. Though he refuses to take credit for bringing the ladies to Nigeria, he, however, revealed that he started the process of achieving that feat. “I cannot claim that I brought them when they finally came, but it was me that started the process. I was covering international events, so I set up a magazine called the Tennis Africa Magazine, which was promoting black players all over the world “They really appreciated it, and we became family, because the father was appreciative of the fact that Serena and Venus Williams, James Blake, Jo-Wilfred Tsonga and others, were not getting the kind of credit that they needed to get. “The Williams sisters were seen as ‘black monkeys’ and all kinds of bad pictures in Europe. The Tennis Africa was the one countering those bad images and they were shocked that that kind of magazine was coming out of Africa. I could ask anything and they would do it. So, when we wanted to bring them to Nigeria, they were close to getting into the plane and coming from Dubai when Serena fell sick, after playing her last tournament. So that initial plan was botched. “Then some promotional company took it up from there and followed through and brought them a year or two after. They raised the funds in good time, but the stage had been set. We are glad they came, and whatever impact they made is left to be seen. We are glad that they visited their motherland,” Kienka said. He speaks further on growing up, passion for tennis and other matters. Excerpts: Growing up and passion for tennis Some of us were lucky to belong to parents who were into sports and education. My father was a school headmaster, but we lived in missions where the sports facilities were readily available to us. You come out of the staff quarters and you see the fields and courts. I was also very lucky to have my father posted to schools where there were very good sports facilities; the primary schools had football fields and volley ball courts, the missions had tennis courts, so it was very easy for me, and it was a very early start, being introduced to all sports, not just tennis. We did every sport in my family, very early in life. Football was everybody’s sports and we were good enough to play for our schools and clubs. In the secondary school, I became my state (Rivers State) captain. We did the all secondary school tennis championship and I was in class three or four, and I won it. That was where it started. We had good coaches. To see how organised it was then, the state coach was coming to my school every weekend (because we had two tennis courses then) to coach me. My studies were not affected. When I went into the university, I had a choice to play football or tennis. We had a friendly and I went with my school (University of Ibadan) to the then University of Ife. After we finished football and we came back, the coaches took all our football kits, boots, but the tennis team had all their rackets and kits with them, such that the next day, they went to training with them. I was angry, and I went to the tennis captain and told him that I wanted to join the team. He said there were five people in the team, that if I could beat the number four or five, I was good to go. I beat the number four, they were shocked and we did the trials and I beat my opponent too. So you see why I chose tennis, and I have not regretted it, because I went on to do my NYSC based on tennis. I had a year intensive coaching from one of the best coaches in Nigeria at that time, and became a top national player. Impact in Nigeria tennis I don’t know about me being a ‘big name.’ I am only doing my little bits, working as hard as I am with the kids, because basically I had other options. I did not study physical education or coaching, I studied English grammar, literature and philosophy at the University of Ibadan. I did masters in public administration, human resources management. I have done post graduate courses in sports administration, but nothing like coaching. But I was working for the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), and I was covering international events like the Wimbledon, the US Open and all that and I saw the opportunities that were in sports. You see parents guiding their children, so I was more interested in what were happening at the back scene and I was following the parents, coaches, working with these young players, and talking with them. We had to devote our time to make the children the stars that you know today. I came back and I was in the middle of changing jobs from NAN to Total, then I told my patron and mentor that I was going into tennis for children. He was shocked. Here I am today, we have had a Clara who won the national at 14, we have had MaryLove. Through our programmes, who had also gotten to the finals at age 14 at the senior level and is now preparing to become a pro; we had a programme where we had all the genius. We can tell who the geniuses are from ages 10, 12, 14, 16 and 18. Our aim was to get teenage champions, and we did that with Thomas Otu, Joseph Imeh, Sylvester Imawo. That generation came through all the ITF circuit tournaments that we started when they were 10 and 12. So we broadened the phase. Now we have good junior programmes, tournaments and good junior transition programmes which we are advocating for all the sports to adopt. So once you have a transition programme, it takes time, but some of them will come through. Nigeria future stars Oh yes, as I said, it takes a while; but we have good potential if we start at a very early age who can make the top 50, or top 20. We have MaryLove, we have Oyinlomo. For the guys, we have Edna, Philip Abayomi, Jebutu, and others. The rest may get into the ranking, but if we work hard on these ones that are below 17, by the time they are 25 they could get into the grand slams, and then the ones coming behind them are even better. We have Serena Teduwo, Nene Yakubu, Oiza Yakubu and others; they are more likely to go further. Once we have a transition plan, the people coming behind will get better until we hit the point when we have great talents. I am interested in the young ones because that is the future of tennis. The older ones will have to keep helping them stay competitive because they are the target for those we are producing from behind. At age 25, to 30, there is not so much they can do any more. It is like football. Why are we not doing well in football? It is because we are promoting so much over-aged players. Our U-17s are already 25, our U-21s are already 28. By the time they finish doing well at that level, they are done. You are only cheating yourself. It is called pyrrhic victories. But if you have a true programme like I have established in tennis, then you still keep those ones there, that is why you have the national tennis league which provided a lot of competitions. And they were making good money, seven million naira for the winning team. My aim is to make sure that the national senior champion can make like 10 million naira a year, comfortably. If he is number one at the end of the year, he should be able to make enough money. We will get there, if we continue with the tennis league. Most of them are becoming millionaires, they earn seven to ten million, and the sponsors pay them sign-on fees, so they are very comfortable. But they provide target for the junior ones coming up; most of the teams now have juniors in their teams. It was Oyinlomo that won the league two years ago, when she beat Sarah in the finals. As a junior, she beat the number one player in the country at the NCC. With that kind of integration, you get the junior ones to play against the senior, and you use them as targets to see how far they can go. We can access how far the junior will go when they compete against the seniors, so that works. It has to be like a pyramid; you have a big base of juniors and hope that some of them come to the top. Tennis family My children were national champions at the junior level before they left for America. They were all captains of their school teams in America. Meeting his wife Unfortunately, I did not meet my wife on the court. People think that is where it should have been, but I have another passion and that was where I met her. Philosophy Do what you can, and leave the rest to God.