Many challenges will confront the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. The peace in the region must be sustained. Therefore, the onus is on him to expand the dividends of democracy to the oil-producing states. The people are making claims for obvious reasons. Nigeria rely on crude oil from the zone for the execution of its annual budgets. In peace and war, oil has remained the main stay of the economy. In the current budget, the Buhari administration is looking towards the oil-bearing Niger Delta to generate N2.64 trillion from crude oil. The budget was based on the assumption of $57 per barrel with crude product of 2.8million barrels per day and the exchange rate at N305 to $1. Peace in the Niger Delta is a sine qua non. Ambrose Oke, a public affairs analyst, said the relative peace and tranquility in the region must be commended and maintained if the revenue from oil must be maintained. He added: “Personally, I commend those who have been responsible for the relative peace that is being enjoyed in the Niger Delta; it is not yet a celebration time though; I must say that the drastic reduction in the crisis unlike what used to be the experience in that area has helped businesses.” Oke said: “If the Federal Government must realise the nearly N3trillion it has budgeted from crude oil sales, peace in the area is very important. This is why I commend what the Presidential Amnesty Programme is doing to soothe the frayed nerves in the region. I also believe that next year’s budget will be better implemented than what we have seen in the last few years.” An Asaba-based businesswoman, Comfort Ani, commended the peace in the region and attributed it to the increasing efforts by the Presidential Amnesty Programme. She said: “I have noticed that there are less and less agitations in the Niger Delta region. I think this could be attributed to good work of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. Beyond focusing on the ex-militants, they are now reaching out to rural women and other vulnerable people in the region. Don’t forget that the empowerment programmes of state governments in the region are doing a lot to take people away from criminal activities. From Delta to Edo; from Bayelsa to Rivers; from Akwa Ibom to Cross River, people are being positively impacted through various skills acquisition programmes. They are paying off.” The Special Adviser to the President and the Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Charles Dokubo, recently acknowledged the impact of the Programme, following the improved stability in the Niger Delta. He said it has allowed daily oil production to grow from less than 700,000 barrels, since he came into office, to the current level of close to two million barrels per day. For some time now, the Niger Delta has continued to enjoy peace and tranquility. Some observers have attributed this to the effort of those handling the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) despite some misgivings in some quarters. “The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is very lucky for the relative peace that is being enjoyed in the Niger Delta since he assumed office. I think the Presidential Amnesty Programme should be commended for this,” Ambrose Oke, who claims to have followed developments in the Niger Delta since 1999, said. Oke, who traced the wanton destruction that used to be synonymous with the region, recalled that, between 2007 and 2009, activities of militants and armed-bearing youths  disrupted crude oil production, costing Nigeria huge revenue losses. He stressed: “The decision of the then President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua to float the Amnesty Programme was to stem the agitation and to halt the financial bleeding. Although there were also some threats here and there during the Goodluck Jonathan administration from some of the militants, particularly on how the Amnesty Programme was being implemented, especially those who alleged they were not being captured or that they were being excluded, today, the Programme has been able to weather the storm and a lot of those involved are happy. Of course, you cannot rule out some complaints here and there. By and large, it has been a success and ultimately for the good of the country in general.” An analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, noted that there has been relative peace in the region which the current government is also enjoying. “Although the 2020 budget proposal is not all about oil, it however, occupies a significant portion of the expected revenue even at a benchmark of $57 per barrel. We know that government has always reaped hugely far above the estimate, because price of crude oil could go as high as $75 and above per barrel. So, all I am saying is that, if there is an unrest in the Niger Delta today, of the proportion we experienced some years back when oil companies fled the region and production nosedived, you could imagine the danger the Federal Government would be in,” the analyst said. “I think both the Niger Delta ministry and the Amnesty Programme should be commended for a good job so far, and there is need for more support from the centre,” he further said. Today, many of the restive youths, who used to carry arms, have either been trained or are being trained in various skills to earn a descent living. Hence, the peace that is being enjoyed in the area. The over 33,000 ex-militants are enjoying the payment of monthly stipends, vocational training and education to reintegrate them into the society. However, Dokubo may have introduced the concept of “Empowering Niger Delta people and women from impacted communities.” This means that the office, from time to time, will empower people from those communities scattered across Niger Delta who were directly affected by the 2009 Niger Delta crisis, in a effort to rehabilitate them and provide a better means of livelihood for them. Dokubo said that the programme has provided an impetus to efforts to sustain and consolidate peace in the hitherto restive Niger Delta region. Dokubo, who spoke during an interactive session with beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme undergoing training in various skills, said the Programme has been taken to higher level. “The Amnesty Programme has been at the forefront of the peace consolidation and peace enforcement. It has brought peace and stability to the Niger Delta. We have been able to interact with those in that environment and have bought them into our dreams. “Niger Delta is now known for peaceful development because there is no development without security. I want you to show Nigerians that Amnesty is now into more of training so that our beneficiaries can develop a skill after being trained, and then work. That is the last aspect of the Amnesty Programme which is the reintegration phase,” he said. “When we train people, we give them jobs and they earn salaries. When they earn salaries, they can take care of their families, not with stipends,” he added. Last month, the Programme empowered 100 rural women in coastal communities across the Niger Delta. They were given starter packs to enable them be self-reliant. They were the first batch among 400 rural women to be empowered in the fishing sector. Murphy Ganagana, Special Assistant (Media), quoted him as saying: “We are doing a lot to ensure the sustenance of peace and development of the Niger Delta. The flag-off of the empowerment of rural women in fishing is tailored towards actualising our objectives. Training and empowerment of beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme will be pursued vigorously in the days ahead so that Mr. President will realise his dream for the Niger Delta”. “You will agree with me that when you empower women, you are empowering a nation. Today, history is being made as a new chapter of the Presidential Amnesty Programme is written which to me can be chronicled and archived as actualising the economic el-dorado of the Niger Delta women,” he further said. The Amnesty Office said it had adopted a new strategy to sustain the stability and security in the Niger Delta region, adding that the new strategy combines training of ex-combatants with their job placements on graduation.