To further deepen its footprint across Africa, Reddot Television Network, the parent company of Ogelle, is currently on locations across Nigeria’s commercial capital producing its flagship movie, ‘Aluko’s Residence’, set for release early November. “We have over 4,000 videos on Ogelle, we have over 1,000 films from all over Africa on the platform, but none of them as at today was made by Reddot Television Network, the parent company of Ogelle. Some of them we bought, some we leased, some are on revenue-sharing arrangement,” Osita Oparaugo, CEO, Reddot Television Network and producer of the movie, told journalists in Lagos at the weekend. “This is the first time we are making our own film. We took our time to make sure the film we will make as our flagship film will be one that will travel globally and bring smiles on the faces of Africans and lovers of African content everywhere,” he said. Aluko’s Residence, an approximately 30-minute-weekly comedy series designed for the entertainment of the general web audience, will run every Friday on Ogelle.com beginning mid-October, Oparaugo said. It is the story of a newly married young couple with rather faulty marital foundation. Ola Aluko falls on hard times but is convinced by a pastor that getting married is the solution out of his stagnant career. His fiancée Ovie, a successful wedding planner, bails him out as she sponsors their wedding with the promise that he will repay as soon as fortune smiles on him. The couple agree to keep this a secret and both families are not aware of this arrangement. The upheavals arising from this arrangement, the interference of family members who feel entitled, and the antics of the security man at the gate, Bill Gates (played by Monkals Kalu), are what make the drama tick. “The drama is the dynamics of the family. People will enjoy watching how everyday life is handled in the household,” said Jimi Odukoya, who plays the character of Ola Aluko. “It also addresses different issues in the society, strategically focusing on things people are dealing with, and addressing certain social issues wrapped up in a comedic story,” he said.