By Sodiq Mojibola and Yunus Abdulrasheed A youth group, Ikorodu Division Youth Initiative Movement (IDYIM), has urged governments at all levels to see youth empowerment as crucial national development. The group, which made the call during the 2019 edition of its annual ‘Divisional Youth Summit’, said by so doing, it would enable the country and its leaders enjoy the support of, as well as earn the trust of, the teeming youths who are the most active segment of national population. The group’s executive director, Comrade Samson Bisiriyu, said it is important for the energy of the younger generation to be tapped positively. Speakers at the event, which also featured the recognition of personalities who have been supportive of youth empowerment and community development, called on government to act swiftly in tackling growing unemployment and youth restiveness. The summit was held at the Ikorodu town hall on Independence Day. Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu ably represented by his Special Adviser on Agriculture, Ruth Olusanya, led dignitaries at the event. Former Secretary to the Lagos State government, Chief Olorunfunmi Bashorun, also graced the event. Sanwo-olu assured the youths of plans by his administration to examine new ways of empowering the younger generation urging them to be prepared to contribute their quota to the development of the state and the country. Speaking further, Olusanya described herself as a good example of the new administration’s desire to give youths opportunities within and outside the government. “When I look at the calibre of the people in the cabinet, I see my appointment as a privilege and a call on me to serve as a representative of my generation,” she said. “Youths should not be discouraged from venturing into politics. Success does not come on a platter of gold and so they must keep pushing till success is attained. I also want to appeal to the youths who want to go into politics that they must be consistent, truthful and loyal to their course at all times,” Bashorun said. He assured participants at the summit of the readiness of the government to continue to tap into the energy and creativity of the youths at all time.