The crisis rocking the All Progressive Congress(APC) in Ekiti on Wednesday deepened as some of its aggrieved local government chairmanship aspirants protested against alleged imposition of candidate. The protesters led by Mrs. Tosin Aluko and Tajudeen Gidado, who are chairmanship aspirants in the council for the December 7, 2019 elections in the state besieged the Secretariat at about 9.30 am to express their grievances. The party had earlier last week Saturday suspended primaries in Ado, Ikole and Ekiti East local governments over alleged security threat and rumour that some members were planning to disrupt the process in a violent manner. It was gathered that the Deputy Governor and leader of the party in Ado Ekiti council, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi and 35 others had picked Mrs Omotunde Fajuyi against the wishes of the two other aspirants. The two aspirants faulted and rejected the consensus process that produced Mrs Fajuyi as the candidate, saying such was a flagrant violation of party’s constitution, which stipulated that there must be indirect primary when consensus option fails. They said the decision doesn’t reflect the interest and free will of the party members, saying the principle of internal democracy should not be inhibited but rather strengthened. But the APC State Publicity Secretary, Hon Ade Ajayi, said the party was not interested in imposition of candidates. Ajayi also exonerated Governor Kayode Fayemi of complicity in the crises that dogged the primaries, warning that nobody should bring the governor into the controversial issue. “Some group of people came to protest here today and said they rejected the consensus option in Ado Ekiti. They were led by Mrs Tosin Aluko and Mr. Tajudeen Gidado. “They came with placards carrying inscription that they rejected imposition, that they wanted primaries. We have never contemplated imposition as a party. “The party will look into their protest vis- a vis the letter signed by the Deputy Governor and 35 leaders . You know that the Deputy Governor is the leader of the party in Ado Ekiti and you know what it means for him to have signed for consensus. The state exco will meet on the issue and take a position. “We are not ready to impose anybody and nobody must bring the name of Governor Kayode Fayemi into this matter”. Ajayi said the party has set up intervention and reconciliation committees to interface with the aggrieved aspirants on how to resolve the crises trailing the conduct of the primaries in the three councils. He said the party took a proactive measures by postponing the primaries on Saturday in the three councils upon realising that some hoodlums wanted to hijack the process to allegedly burn down some marked houses . On efforts being made to pacify the aggrieved candidates, the APC spokesman said : “We are getting representations from various communities, because we recognise the right of every individual to contest in our party without being deprived. “We have invited leaders from Ikole, Ekiti East and Ado Ekiti , so all the issues are being attended to and it will be resolved amicably”, he assured.