The National Identification Number (NIN) is a major requirement for validating identities for business and services, including pension. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, reports that the requirement has slowed the take-off of the micro pension plan The Federal Government’s plan to use the Number (NIN) for validating citizenship is affecting the new Micro Pension Plan (MPP). The Nation gathered that sale of the product is being hindered by lack of NIN by many Nigerians, especially those working in the informal sector, who are targets of the MPP. NIN, along with Bank Verification Numbers (BVN),  is a major requirement by the National Pension Commission before a Pension Fund Administrator can register a prospective customer for the micro pension plan. While many interested persons are able to produce BVN, few are unable to do so with the NIN card. The Federal Government had mandated every Nigerian to have a NIN card. It aims to use it to tie all records about an individual in the database and use it to establish or verify his or her identity. All citizens and legal residents in the country, from birth and above, are eligible for enrolment. Many Nigerians are yet to have NIN due to the few centres provided by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) for registration, among other challenges. They have lamented the delays in the registration for the NIN and obtaining the card. Micro Pension, on the other hand, is an initiative of the Federal Government, through PenCom, to capture workers under the informal sector, such as artisans, actors and actresses, engineers, lawyers and other self-employed persons. PenCom Acting Director General Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar said the commission estimates capturing 30 million people in the informal sector. She stated that the MPP is expected to mobilise about N3 trillion savings into the over N9.4 trillion pension assets in the country. Since the launch of the MPP by President Muhammadu Buhari in March, this year, PenCom and PFAs have embarked on campaigns to sell the products. Unfortunately, the sales of the product have been low because majority of the people do not have NIN. PFAs have, however, lamented the difficulties in registrating for  NIN and obtaining the card by NIMC. National Identity Management Agency Director-General Aliyu Aziz said so far, they have about 1,000 centres nationwide with enrolment hitting about 36 million persons. He said: “We have about 1,000 centres nationwide and have enrolled about 36 million persons. But that number is small, compared to the overall population, and the number of centres we have is also small. The standard is that for every 50,000 people, we need a centre. So, if we are approximately 200 million, it means that we need, at least, 4,000 centres to be optimal. But for the size of the country and the demand, we need up to 10,000 centres and the plan is to achieve that. “To cover the shortfall, we have come up with a sustainable programme nicknamed, Ecosystem; that is, to work with other government agencies and the private sector that are collecting data to send to the NIMC and the commission will pay them per successful enrolment. ‘’We have done a lot of preparation for this activity. Therefore, the number of enrolment centres will increase and there will be a motivation to carry out the enrolment because they will be paid. We believe that the ecosystem approach will solve the problem. “The focus before was on the card but we have learnt from the United States, the United Kingdom and India that the focus should be on the national identification number. Therefore, we have gone back to the foundation and that is why the number grew to 36 million. So, our law says that we should also issue a general multipurpose card and that the first issuance should be free; that was in 2012. But because of the economic situation, we were unable to issue 36 million cards free. So, the focus is to emphasise on the number and allow the government agencies to accept the number and issue services. So far, the banks, Nigeria Immigration Service, Federal Road Safety Corps, National Pension Commission and others accept the NIN to give you service and, therefore, reduce the pressure from the demand for the card.’’ PenCom spokeperson, Mr Peter Aghahowa in a telephone conversation with The Nation said the commission is working to hasten the progress of the MPP. He confirmed that NIN has slowed down registration for the MPP. He disclosed that the commission is partnering NIMC to register people who want for micro pension. “The micro pension take-off has not been as fast as we want it but people are enrolling. It is a fact that NIN has affected it but we prefer to do it right. PenCom is having an arrangement with NIMC that will aid people to get NIN by collecting information and passing them to NIMC who then gives us the NIN number,” he added.