AbdulGafar Alabelewe, Kaduna GUNMEN suspected to be kidnappers on Thursday morning stormed a boarding secondary school in Kaduna, taking away six female students and two staff members of the school. The private boarding school, Engravers College, is in a Kakau Daji village of Chikun Local Government Area of the state. The state police command confirmed the abduction, adding that anti-kidnapping, special anti-robbery, and conventional police operatives have been deployed to rescue the victims. The Public Relations Officer, DSP Yakubu Sabo who confirmed the kidnap in a statement Thursday, said IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT) has equally been contacted for technical support. Sabo said, “The Command received an information through DPO Tall Gate, in the early hours of today 03/10/2019 at about 0310hrs that, some armed men gained entry into the Engravers College, a Boarding secondary school in a remote area near Kakau Daji village in Chikun L.G.A and took away two staff of the college and six (6) female students to unknown destination. “On receipt of that information, the Command immediately mobilised combined teams of Anti-kidnapping, SARS, and conventional police to the area for possible rescue of the victims and arresting the perpetrators of the unfortunate incident. “IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT) has been contacted for technical support. “The Command, therefore, is using this opportunity to reiterate its call on all the private school proprietors within the State to liaise with their nearest Police formation and promptly report incidents or suspicious persons around schools to forestall future occurrence of ugly incidents. “On this note, the Commissioner of Police Kaduna State Command, CP Ali Aji Janga  is assuring the general public that the Command is doing everything possible to secure the release of all the victims unhurt. “He equally called on the good people of the State not to relent in giving the Police prompt and useful information at all times,” he said. “We’re working hard to rescue the abducted school girls. The state government also assured that every effort was being made to free the six abducted students and staff of the school. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan gave the assurance in a statement on Thursday. He said the state government condemned the abduction, describing it as despicable and most unfortunate intrusion of crime into the life of young students and the staff teaching them. He said, “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has dispatched a government delegation to sympathise with the school community and assure them that security agencies are working to rescue the abducted persons. The state government delegation was led by Samuel Aruwan, the Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs. Accompanied by security agencies, the commissioner spoke to parents and staff of the school and assured them that every effort will be exerted to free the abductees and punish this brazen crime. “The school management and the parents of the students will be given updates as appropriate,” the commissioner said.