The emergence of Senator Douye Diri as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has led to the review of zoning and the ouster of the House of Assembly Speaker, Tonye Isenah, and the election of Monday Obolo as new Speaker. Senior Correspondent MIKE ODIEGWU examines other permutations of the ruling party for the November 16 poll. On September 30, there was an unusual hullabaloo at the Bayelsa State House of Assembly complex. For about 15 minutes, gunshots rented the air. Assembly workers, reporters, passers-by and motorists plying the road where the complex is located at the Amarata axis of the popular Mbiama-Yenagoa road ran in different directions for safety. In fact, the atmosphere was characterised by fear, panic, tension and rowdiness. But, at the end of the violent drama, there were no casualties. Indeed, it was the first rowdy session of the House since Seriake Dickson became the governor of the oil-rich state in 2012. The permutations of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to win the November 16 governorship election was the reason for the drama. PDP leaders, including the governor wanted the Speaker, Tonye Isenah, to relinquish his coveted position in the House. In a desperate maneuver to reposition the party in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, following  the governorship primary that produced Douye Diri as the candidate of the party, the leaders were said to have appealed to Isenah to resign his position and hand it over to another lawmaker from Southern Ijaw. They particularly told Isenah that, since he hails from the same Kolokuma-Opokuma Local Government Area with Diri, he must sacrifice his position to douse tension in Southern Ijaw and give party members, who felt shortchanged by the outcome of the primary a sense of belonging. Besides, they reminded Isenah of an agreement he reached with them to abdicate his position after the primary. The negotiation was on for weeks. But, Isenah initially stood his ground because public opinion appeared to be in his favour. His supporters rejected the pressure mounted on him by party leaders and warned that his removal would compound the post-primary crisis. Isenah said: “My stand on the issue of resignation has been that I have served the PDP and  Governor Seriake Dickson faithfully and with unflinching loyalty and I will not resign as doing so at this time will not in anyway help the party succeed in the November 16 governorship election.” But, the cabal frowned at Isenah’s recalcitrance. As the pressure piled up, Isenah accepted to resign and gave an indication that he would do so after presiding over the plenary on September 30.  The report that Isenah had bowed to pressure went viral. Therefore, on that day, reporters, and the lawmakers, who sat at the hallowed chamber waited for Isenah to read his resignation letter. Isenah, who wore only a wig without the Speaker’s robe to address his colleagues, adjourned the House sine-die, ordered members to proceed on recess and hit the gavel three times. He rose and the Sergeant-at-Arms picked the mace and led him out of the House. Thugs invaded the area, shootings, and the Speaker zoomed off with the mace. The House was temporarily in disarray. The three lawmakers elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) moved out with Isenah. A PDP lawmaker, Bonny-Ayah, who represents Southern Ijaw  Constituency 1, also supported Isenah’s action. But, about 18 PDP members, led by the Deputy Speaker, Abraham Ngobere, who represents Brass Constituency 3, reconvened the House and ordered reporters out of the hallowed chamber. Another mace was later brought into the House and used to move for the impeachment of the Speaker. A lawmaker representing Sagbama Constituency 2, Bernard Kenebai, moved for the impeachment of Isenah. He was supported by unanimous voice votes from other members. Another lawmaker, Oboku Oforji, who represents Yenagoa Constituency 1, immediately moved for the nomination of Monday Obolo as Speaker and he was seconded by Naomi Igoli of Ogbia constituency 3. Obolo denied the disappearance of the mace. He said: “The House of Assembly is a one united family. It is a honour to have been elected to lead the Sixth Assembly. We are meant to debate and 18 members elected me. Bayelsa should expect the dividend of democracy.” But, Isenah dismissed the activities of the lawmakers, describing them as illegal and insisted that he remained the authentic Speaker. He said: “I went to the House this morning and presided over plenary session. Since the beginning of the Sixth Assembly, all other Houses of Assemblies have gone on recess. Even the National Assembly has gone on recess and are back but we have not gone. “We have been working since and we are tired too.  So, today in plenary, I presided over plenary and commended the lawmakers for their commitment and I have adjourned the House sine die as we have gone on recess. “If the House has been adjourned sine die, nothing can be done in that House that would hold ground again. I presided over the House as the authentic Speaker and adjourned sine die. Anything that happens in that House without me reconvening the House is an illegality. “The House of Assembly is an institution, a different arm of government that needs to be respected. The principle of separation of powers needs to be respected as well. “That proceedings for the House of Assembly have been adjourned, any member who stayed back to do any illegal thing is on his own. The Sergeant –at-Arms escorted me out of the chambers, meaning that, House stands adjourned. That means nobody can reconvene the House except me.” On reports that he entered into an agreement with party leaders to resign, he said: “I never had any arrangement with anybody to resign . At the appropriate time, I would address Bayelsans and tell them what transpired. I never had an arrangement that I am going to resign in three months. “Let them show me any document to that effect where I said I was going to resign.  I want Bayelsans to note that the Bayelsa State House of Assembly is an independent arm of government that should be respected.” But, a PDP chieftain, who was privy to the meetings, said Isenah was being ungrateful and economical with the truth. The source, who spoke in confidence, said the former Speaker was a victim of a system that made him, adding that the three-time lawmaker would continue to suffer a moral burden for reneging a gentleman’s agreement. He said: “At the beginning of the Sixth Assembly, Isenah was not supposed to be the Speaker. The party leaders, including the governor, had concluded plans to make Obolo from Southern Ijaw the Speaker. But Isenah met with the governor privately and begged him to make him a Speaker even if it was for a day. “Isenah said he needed the position because he used it to campaign and convince his people to re-elect him for a third term as a ranking lawmaker. Besides, he said it would enrich his résumé. “It was at this point the governor agreed and called other lawmakers and leaders of the party and asked Isenah to repeat what he told him. Isenah said the same thing and vowed to resign after the primary. The governor and party leaders begged Obolo to wait and assured him that he would still be the Speaker. That is why we are surprised at Isenah’s behaviour. He is supposed to have resigned without all this drama.” Beyond the agreement, a member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Francis Agbo, said Isenah erred by unilaterally adjourning the House without a motion. Agbo, who represents Ado, Okpokwu and Ogbadibo Constituency, said he was shocked at Isenah’s conduct. Agbo, who is a former Chief Press Secretary to Dickson, said: “As a lawmaker, I am shocked at what happened at the Bayelsa State House of Assembly. I have never seen or heard where or when a Speaker or any presiding officer would in the course of sitting in plenary hit the gavel and adjourn sitting or the legislature, sine-die. “The practice and convention as captured in the rule is that a member would rise to sponsor a motion for adjournment. Another member would second. The Speaker, President of the Senate or the Presiding Officer as the case may be, then, puts it to vote and then rules accordingly. “For the Bayelsa State House of Assembly Speaker, Tonye Emmanuel Isenah to unilaterally adjourn the House indefinitely is anti-parliamentary. What the Speaker did, who ordinarily should be a bastion of legislative compliance, is a mockery of democracy, and smacks of legislative terrorism. This act could throw the now peaceful state into chaos. It should be condemned by all. Agbo added: “See what transpired in the UK recently. The Prime Minister, Boris Johnson unilaterally suspended Parliament for five weeks in the run up to the Brexit deadline – October 31. But the Supreme Court in a landmark judgement declared his decision unlawful because Mr. Johnson is not vested with the power to so adjourn the Parliament suo motu. “Just like the Western world condemned Johnson and urged him to resign, I expect Nigerians and particularly Bayelsans, to rise in unison to say no to the desecration of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly by Isenah. “Bayelsa is the centre of gravity of the struggles, restiveness and agitations in the Niger Delta. Now that both the Federal and State Governments have managed to stabilise the state, I don’t expect any person or group of persons to foment trouble or attempt to destabilise the littoral state. “The country is currently struggling to combat insurgency, crimes and criminalities of different forms. Nigeria can not survive additional violence from the only homogenous Ijaw state. There is urgent need for all stakeholders, irrespective of party or interest affiliations to come together and call Isena to order. Like former President Goodluck Jonathan once said, nobody’s ambition should spill blood.” Dickson,in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, endorsed the impeachment of Isenah and congratulated the new Speaker, Obolo. The governor described the new Speaker as a promising, young and vibrant political leader with the capacity to carry out the sensitive responsibility of presiding over the affair of the Legislative arm. He called on the members of the Assembly to give the requisite support to the new speaker to enable him to succeed in his new position as the Head of the Legislature. Dickson advised the Speaker and the members of the Assembly to ensure that the Assembly’s legacy of stability was sustained.