As part of efforts to make the holiday season fun for vulnerable children, FoodCo Nigeria Limited, a diversified consumer goods company with interests in retail, quick service restaurants, manufacturing and entertainment, recently hosted children of Tabitha Home, an orphanage based in Ibadan, Oyo State, to a special party to mark the school break. The event, held at FoodCo Ring Road Outlet, Ibadan, had children and officials of the orphanage, as well as FoodCo staff, in attendance. Speaking during the party, Tayo Olubiyi, Manager, FoodCo Ring Road Outlet, who represented the company’s CEO-designate, Ade Sun-Basorun, explained that the event was motivated by FoodCo’s Corporate Social Responsibility vision which aims at integrating vulnerable persons, particularly children, into mainstream society. She stated: “At the core of the FoodCo value proposition is to build an all-inclusive brand where every individual has opportunity to be their best self and aspire to the best of their potential. That is why we are deeply invested in enriching the lives of vulnerable groups, particularly children, who would otherwise be excluded from mainstream events.” “As a family-oriented brand, we know that children look forward to school breaks as it is a time for them to bond with family, visit interesting places and generally have fun. We also realize that for some groups of children, it is life as usual which is why we decided to invite the children of the Tabitha Home Orphanage to our new, ultra-modern outlet in Ring Road where they can meet new people, enjoy a delicious lunch and play the latest video games. It’s just our little way of adding to their holiday experience,” she added. While commending the orphanage for its efforts towards providing shelter for the children and catering to their needs, Olubiyi stated that the task of caring for vulnerable children should the collective responsibility of all members of society in order to show the children that they are valued stakeholders in the commonwealth.” In her reaction, Febisola Okonkwo, founder, Tabitha Home, commended FoodCo for the gesture, noting that the company has been a long-standing partner to the orphanage. She said: “The children and management of Tabitha Home are grateful to FoodCo for its contributions to the wellbeing of the orphanage over the years. We appreciate the efforts put into organizing this special party for the children and believe that the experience will undoubtedly leave them with long lasting memories.” In 2018, FoodCo also established the Adegbenga Sun-Basorun Scholarship Scheme targetted at providing financial intervention for one thousand indigent bright children enrolled in public secondary schools in Oyo State.