By Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta Ogun teachers on Saturday sympathised with Governor Dapo Abiodun over what they described as the “seemingly insurmountable challenges and liabilities” his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, bequeathed to him. The teachers under the aegis of Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), Ogun State chapter, said so much water has passed under the bridge while the tenure of Amosun lasted, stressing that theirs were “rights and privileges” either long delayed  before they were met or placed at the back seat in government’s scheme of things. The state chairman of ASUSS, Akeem Lasisi, made this known at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta on the occasion of this year’s World Teachers’ Day. This year’s edition of the World Teachers Day with the theme: “Young teachers; the Future of the Profession,” was also attended by the members of the National Union of Teachers (NUT) in the state led by Com. Titilope Adebanjo. Lasisi identified non-payment of leave allowance to teachers since 2015 till date, non-conducting of the long overdue  2018 and 2019 promotion  exercises and the erasing of the Principal-General status by Amosun’s administration as some of the challenges confronting the secondary education subsector that Abiodun inherited and requiring his urgent attention. However, Abiodun, while addressing the teachers, shocked them when he announced the immediate recall of their two colleagues dismissed three years ago by the administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The recalled teachers who were sent on compulsory retirement by Amosun’s government included the former state chairman of Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Dare Ilekoya, as well as one of the state’s examiners from the Mayflower School, Ikenne, Olusanjo Majekodunmi. Abiodun said the decision to reinstate the sacked teachers formed part of his administration’s resolve to encourage the teachers since it falls within the ambit of natural justice as it is also the “right thing to do.” In his remarks, Adebanjo lauded the state governor for approving the promotion of the over 10,000 teachers who were denied promotion by the immediate past administration.