In commemoration of the  World Egg Day, the Agricultural Media Resources and Extension Centre (AMREC) of the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), in collaboration with Premier Feed Mills, hosted pupils from select secondary schools in Abeokuta, th eOgun State capital where they learnt the importance of egg to health. AMREC Director, Prof. Dorcas Adegbite, represented by the Deputy Director, Dr. Olalekan Oyekunle, said the International Egg Commission (IEC) had chosen the second Friday of every October as a special day when people around the world would celebrate the importance of egg production and its role in food security. Adegbite further described egg “as a highly affordable, excellent source of high quality protein, which is essential to human growth because of its nutritional value”. She urged teachers to share their knowledge of eggs with other pupils in their schools. Convener and Programme Leader, Extension and Adaptive Research of AMREC, Dr. Oluwakemi Irekhore said the World Egg Day was first celebrated in 1996. She said the idea behind the day was to raise awareness on the importance of egg all over the world and to appreciate the contributions of  egg to the society. Stressing the economic and nutritional importance of egg, the Programme Leader, Livestock Research, Institute of Food Security, Environmental Resources and Agricultural Research (IFSERAR), Dr. Kazeem Bello said, “Egg is a very good source of cheap and high-quality protein, a rich source of Selenium, Vitamin D, B6, B12 and minerals such as Zinc, Iron and Copper”. Bello enlightened the students on the benefits of egg, stating that it remained a good source of protein for good health. Highlights of the event were an egg race, questions and answers session, presentation of gifts to winners of the game as well as students with the best answers to the questions. Schools on the occasion were FUNAAB International School (FUNIS); Muslim High School, Isolu; Salawu Abiola Comprehensive High School, Osiele; Al-Jihad International Model School, Camp; Stephen Centre International School, Odo-Eran;  and Nawair-Ud-Deen Grammar School, Obantoko, all in Abeokuta. 