Lagos lawyer Lanre Oyetunji has urged the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to investigate the alleged violation of the rights of his clients by the Police. In an October 22 petition to the NHRC Executive Secretary, the lawyer said his clients, Gbenga Arogundade, Sukurat Arogundade, and Kazeem Arogundade of the Iberekodo Community, Ibeju-Lekki, were unlawfully arrested. He said it was over an attempt by some persons to illegally take over vast acres of land on Iberekodo Village, along Eleko Road, Magbon, Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State. Oyetunji said the Iberekodo community was the land’s beneficial owner. According to him, the community has been exercising rights of ownership over the land without disturbance. He said sometime in 2010, the community entered into negotiation with Omotsola Ogbe, one of the engineers working for Arogundade. He had approached the community for the sale of part of the Iberekodo community land. The petition reads: “Further to the negotiations, the community agreed to sell and assign approximately an area of 20.156 acres (120 plots) to Ogbe in the total consideration of the sum of N36,000,000. “At the time of sale of the subject matter, it was mutually agreed that Ogbe would commit resources towards processing the excision of the subject land by the Lagos State Government in favour of the community as the land was said to be under government acquisition. “To this end,  Ogbe made payment required from him for excision of Iberekodo community land and a file was opened for the process at the Ministry of Lands, Alausa, Lagos with the File No. KL/7583. “Recently, our client (Ogbe) observed that certain persons came to the subject land and started trespassing on the parts of the land. “At the time, representative of the community were delegated to confirm the identity of these trespassers. “Following the discovery (of the trespassers), we made an official complaint to the Lagos State Special Task Force on Land Grabbers on behalf of our clients (I.e Engr. Ogbe and representatives of the Iberekodo community). “Thereafter, the parties involved in the trespass were invited alongside our clients by the Lagos State Special Task Force on the 14th of October,  2019 to amicably resolve the matter. “But they (trespassers) failed to honour the invitation while our clients were available and duly represented at scheduled meeting. “However, to our surprise, rather than attend the summons from the Special Task Force, they engaged the instrumentality of the Police Force, to harass and intimate our clients and members of their family. “Without any Police Investigation, one Inspector Rebecca from the IGP Intelligence Response Unit on Saturday, the 18th of October, 2019 at about 5am, arrested Mr. Gbenga Arogundade, Mrs. Sukura Arogundade (wife of Waliu Arogundade) and her son, Kazeem Arogundade and detained them at the Police Station, Ajiwe till 3pm the following day for no just cause. “It is worthy to note that the Police are seeking to arrest the same set of persons who have voluntarily honoured every invitation from the Police Headquarters. “The following members of the Arogundade family, namely, Alhaji Monruf Nofiu Arogundade, Waliu Arogundade Gbenga Arogundade, Tosin Arogundade, Segun Muraina Aro, Sheriff Apena, Talaitu Kunle Ajanaku and Mutaila Alugbere (as representatives of the Iberekodo community) have not failed to honour invitation at every given occasion to the Police Headquarters in respect of this matter.” The petitioners said the trespassers “might be using the instrumentality of the Police to their advantage.” They urged the NHRC to intervene.