Residents and commuters in Apapa can heave a sigh of relief as APM Terminals, Apapa, in partnership with the Lagos State Waste Management Agency (LAWMA), has embarked on a cleanup to clear the refuse dumps littering the Apapa-Wharf Road and its environs. Port Complex, Apapa Manager, Mrs. Fumilayo Olotu; Controller, Apapa Area Command, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Comptroller Muhammed Abba-Kura; Apapa Local Government Chairman, Mr. Adele Owolabi and APM Terminals workers participated in the event. Speaking after the flagged off of the exercise on Wharf Road, APM Terminals Managing Director Mr. Martin Jacob said the cleanup initiative was part of the company’s  ‘Go Green’ campaign on environmental degradation and encouraging sustainable waste disposal practices. Jacob expressed the company’s commitment to a cleaner port environment. He charged port users to stop the indiscriminate dumping of refuse on the port access road. “We can complain about what is happening but nothing will change, if people don’t change their attitude. So, we need to forget the past and focus on what to do to make a difference and achieve a sustainable clean port environment. We, as a corporate organisation, will help as much as we can to make sure that happens,” Jacob said. Mrs. Olotu, who described the refuse as an eyesore, said all hands must be on deck to clear them. She said: “Apapa used to be a place of pride in those days; so activities around the port community should not make us lose the heritage we had in the past. We have discussed the need to partner with the local government to maintain the cleanness of our environment. We must engage the truckers and in their own language so that they have a buy-in and key into the project so that the heaps of refuse do not return.” Owolabi applauded APM Terminals for coming up with the initiative. He said the refuse on the port access roads had become a major challenge for the council. He appealed to other corporate organisations to emulate APM Terminals. He said: “We appreciate the gesture by APM Terminals and we encourage everyone around to do same thing. It is a right step in the right direction giving back to the community by evacuating the refuse. It should be sustainable and in sustaining it, there should be sensitisation and advocacy campaign to these truck drivers and motor boys against throwing wastes on the road. “We need the collaboration of every corporate organisation within Apapa. By the time we come together and everybody contributes their own quota, we will make a uniform force for the community.” LAWMA Executive Director, Ibrahim Ojuboni, while calling for the sustainability of the exercise, lauded APM Terminals for the initiative, urging other corporate organisations to emulate such gesture.