Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu is the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State. In this Interview with NWANOSIKE ONU, he says the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) cannot defeat his party in future polls. THE next governorship election will hold in Anambra State in 2021. How are you preparing? The PDP is gearing up for the 2021 governorship election in Anambra State. As you know, we’ve been out of power in this state since 2006. That’s a period of about 13 years now. And we are talking about getting back to power. It’s not just for the sake of power. We want to see that we change the narrative of what is happening presently. Anambra has gone back infrastructurally. We want to go back to where we used to stay. So, we are looking forward to getting back to, reorganising to see if we can get power back for the essence of bringing the governorship seat back to our party and that is the main essence of our reorganisation. Our main focus is how to create a major level of stability in the party, create the enabling environment for those who want to aspire to offices to run for the governorship too, to have a level playing field. It’s one thing to tell someone you will do a transparent primary, but it is important the person sees all the processes as transparent because the primary do not just start and end with the congresses. It starts long before that time. It starts from the period of campaigns going all round the whole state to canvass for support of the party, ownership and leadership. And it needs people to know that the leadership that embraces and that can be trusted. If you observe very well, the last primary of our party held before the last elections. For the very first time in this state for many years, there were no double primaries. All the primaries were held in one center and on the same day and candidates that emerged were candidates that were sponsored by the party for the elections. But, it’s not only shouting that INEC has not done it well, the question is, have you done it well in your own internal party. So, these are part of what we are doing. Again, we are presently galvanising our party rulership at the base. Very soon, you will see that the PDP will be holding seminars, retreats and workshops for our party leadership from the ward level to the local government areas and the state level. The essence is ensuring that those who believe in the party know why they believe in the party and that they are quoted in early enough as to what their role should be.We don’t want a situation whereby INEC says we start to bring in some party agents ahead of time. If you run around and you get the populace to support you and you go and pick some agents who will be there for merchandising purposes, then, all the efforts you’ve made will come to nothing. And so, these are part of the things we are putting in place. Some time ago, we gathered our stakeholders and they showed quick and tremendous zeal to move the party forward. Do you think PDP can regain power in Anambra? Well, the present APGA government is doing the much they know, but their best is not enough for the state. That’s why I said the environmental strength was backsliding. We are not moving forward. Anambra needs to be better than this. This is the center of the Igbo race. We need to be better than what we are today. The infrastructure is poor. We are going below a certain mark. Go around Anambra now, you will marvel. There are no roads again. All the roads are decaying. We can’t continue to watch and let it go that way. They are in government, but I know by their own actions, people have come to see that it is for the personal interest of the leaders and not for the general interest of Anambra, talk less of the Igboman. If we have five states and four are PDP, why is it that Anambra will not join so that we can speak with one voice and attract what is required for our state. Recently, the Vice President came to Anambra and made a proclamation that in 2021, the state will join the ‘next level’ train, is PDP not worried? We don’t know the Next Level he is talking about. I don’t know what he is talking about next level. You graduated from primary one to primary two, if you failed primary one, you can’t talk about primary two. It’s not possible. It’s just like going back to kindergarten. So, APC is not in the equation, it’s mere wishful thinking and a figment of the party’s imagination. The APC Chairman Chief Basil Ejidike, who was a member of your party toed the same line and you know how powerful he is in politics. Why do you see their plans as mere wishful thinking? They are just individuals and not the public. Chief Basil Ejidike is a good man, but that’s where it ends. Once you put yourself in forefront and you are robbed with the power of APC, all your efforts will be in vain. Anambra people know that APC doesn’t know what they are doing and they do not have a place in the politics of the state. The people of Anambra do not belong to APC. The party that has abandoned all the infrastructure in the Southeast. Yes, everybody wants to win, but the fact still remains, what is the interest of the people and community. The people of the state are waiting eagerly for PDP to come back. The result of the last election was a testimony that the people are still in love with our party in the state by voting overwhelmingly up to 96 percent for the party. What is the position of the PDP on zoning? PDP is a national party. We can’t subdue our calculations on the basis of a party that is so localized, it’s not done. At the appropriate time, all the dynamics of the politics will come out with a policy of positions as a national political party. Again, it all depends where the best material comes from and my party has such people in abundance in the three Senatorial zones in the state. However, we will cross the bridge when we get there. We learnt some aspirants have started nursing the ambition to contest the  governorship in 2021 in PDP. Who are they? I know that people like Sen. Uche Ekwunife has declared interest, Chief Obiorah Okonkwo, Osita Chidoka, former Minister of Aviation, Azubogu and just few days ago, Chief Godwin Ezeemo, who donated a big brand new bus to the party are all interested. Some others are still being expected because so many of them have interest in PDP. What we have promised them is a free, fair and credible process that will give the party the best candidate. So, what you are saying now is that PDP can defeat APC and APGA… The trust of our assurance is that the people of the state have showed interest in our party. In the National Assembly, we were able to score 6 over 11 and we are still expecting more from the tribunal because in some local government areas, a lot of things happened. If you look at the state Assembly, despite all the pleas and cries from the governor that, if any other person wins that they might remove him from office. Today, we have six members and also have two senators. Honestly, 2019 had shown a pattern of interest of the Anambra people in the PDP, notwithstanding that we are not in power now at the center or in the state. All we need to do is to continue to show the people that our party is out to do the right thing. For me as the Chairman of the party, I want to assure transparency. Zoning is a matter of convention, it’s not a legalistic promo, any body who is qualified that wants to run an election should run an election. I believe the zonal leadership had said the contest is an open one, we are still two years away from the governorship election. As things unfold and open up, nothing is cast on stone. If there are reasons tomorrow to reflect and retain zoning, so be it. If at the end of the day, the party sees that it is in their best interest to throw it up completely, so be it. APGA is a localised party, it has no bearing root of dynamics in PDP, they should be following us not us following them. They know they have no other thing to cling on to, that’s why they are talking about this zoning thing instead of talking about good governance.