The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has warned operators of oil and gas laboratory services to desist from compromising results of data analysis from their laboratories, uphold industry ethical standard and global best practices. Its Acting Director, Alhaji Shakur Rufai, gave the warning at the third Oil and Gas Industry Laboratory Stakeholders’ workshop  in Lagos with the theme: Enhancing Laboratory Best Practices and Capacity Building towards Promoting Sustainable Development in the Oil and Gas Industry.” Represented by the Deputy Director, Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Division, Dr Musa Zagi, he said the aim of the forum was to chart a new direction for laboratory managers and operators in the industry and make them embrace  best practices. He advised the operators not only to view their operations or businesses as money-making ventures but ensure their services meet global standards. He said laboratory practices should be seen as a critical and sensitive component which inputs are critical for decision-making across the oil and gas value chain. “The impressive attendance at  this workshop, to me, signifies the seriousness and importance that you all attach to this engagement which is geared towards continuous improvement of laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “I would like to thank the Head, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) and his dedicated team for successfully putting this year’s stakeholders’ workshop together. It is also imperative to ask how equipped and efficient our laboratories for conducting these scientific observations and analyses are. “It is my fervent hope and firm belief that the discussions in this workshop will ignite a strong determination and resolve among all oil and gas laboratory stakeholders to begin to chart a definitive and sustainable path towards uncompromised and consistent quality of service and integrity of results.” Shakur emphasized that the quality and integrity of the data or results churned out from laboratories in our sector of the economy is a critical ingredient in decision-making for both regulators and operators without which there can be no real value addition and sustainability. He said the DPR has put in place machinery to ensure good laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. He said the accreditation and permitting process for companies rendering laboratory services in the sector has been further strengthened by the oil and gas laboratories stakeholders’ workshop since the first workshop which was held in 2015. “DPR is committed to working with all stakeholders to drive and enhance good laboratory practice within the sub-sector, encourage and where necessary enforce capacity building with the ultimate goal or objective of promoting sustainable development in the industry,” he added. In attendance were chief executives of laboratory services firms, members of the academia, and representatives of oil and gas companies.