BY AROGBONLO ISRAEL Many students borrowed N650 for the online registration, a prerequisite for assessing the yearly Kogi State Scholarship Scheme, known as bursary. But months after, no student has received the cash. The aggrieved students are appealing to the government to fulfil its promise or return their ‘processing fee’. AROGBONLO ISRAEL report WHEN it was announced, many students received the news with joy. But, one year after, they are yet to be paid. Now they are lamenting the non-payment of their 2018-2019 bursary and scholarship by the Kogi State government. The aggrieved students, under the aegis of the National Association of Kogi State Students (NAKOSS), are spoiling for a showdown, should the government fail to fulfil its own part of the deal before the state election scheduled for next month holds.  The beginning CAMPUSLIFE gathered that NAKOSS was  created in 2004 as a pressure group to promote the welfare of  students in tertiary institutions. The late Governor Prince Abubakar Audu did not pay the bursary, but awarded scholarships to certain categories of students. This led to students’agitation for improved members’ welfare. Audu’s successor Alhaji Idris Ibrahim continued with the scheme, with students receiving N3,500  yearly. Nevertheless, aside that students only enjoyed the bursary once under Ibrahim. CAMPUSLIFE learnt the scheme was fraught with irregularities as most students that registered could not access their bursaries. Capt. Idris Ichala Wada (rtd), who took over from Ibrahim in 2011, added N500 to the bursary. Like Ibrahim, the method of payment was also ridled with irregularies. Two years ago, there were fresh agitations by the students on the matter. This made Governor Yahaya Bello to increase the payment by 300 per cent, a feat previous administrations were not able to achieve. In addition, Bello digitalised the payment system, which encouraged eligible students to register online as a precondition for the bursary. Last year, the government approved N98,565,180 for payment of bursary to over 8,000 students across the country. The Kogi State Scholarship Board floated a portal www.kssb.kg.gov.ng, through which students registered after paying N650. About 8,318 registered for the scheme. A breakdown of the new bursary scheme, according to findings by CAMPUSLIFE, shows that students of National Diploma (ND); National Certificate of Education (NCE), and School of Nursing and Health Science are to take N9,000 each as bursary allowance. Higher National Diploma (HND) and their counterparts in the universities are entitled to N12,000; those studying Law and Medicine will receive N18,000.  NAKOSS threatens mass action NAKOSS has given the government a 16-day ultimatum to pay the bursary before the gubernatorial election scheduled for next month. Their agitation was contained in statement signed by NAKOSS’ National President Comrade Moses Audu. Though the students commended Bello’s gesture, on the social media, they said they were disappointed that nothing had paid. The students body informed CAMPUSLIFE that prior to their agitation, they had reached out to certain government functionaries who promised that the bursary would be paid in July, but nothing has been done till date. The statement read in part: “We are pleading with His Excellency that the screening be completed and the bursary paid in earnest before the November 16 governorship election. “The screening should be completed as soon as possible so that Kogi students can give full support and endorsement to His Excellency. “We know you have done a lot for us in the past and we are confident that you will do it again. We do not want to have a divided house going into the elections. “We also request the courtesy visit of Kogi students to the Office of His Excellency’s as soon as possible.”  Reactions by aggrieved students Agala Moses, who spoke for the Kogi students in Bauchi State, said: “I have written to the scholarship board times without numbering in regard to the issue of bursary payment. The worst part is that some students believed that their leaders have connived with the state government to dupe students. The earlier the government responds, the better for all of us.” Another student from Kogi State University, who identified himself as Temitope Ibrahim, said: “The bursary scheme is a scam indeed! How could they be doing screening for the whole year for bursary payment? We are not (kogi State) workers for God’s sake.” Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE on phone, Public Relations Officer of Kogi State University (KSU) Students’ Union Comrade Oluwafemi Yinka, enumerated the challenges encountered during the exercise. He said: “It was a shock that after the conclusion of the registration, the website used was shut down and later reopened for 2019 registration even when that of 2018 is yet to be paid. We waited patiently until the time the government promised, which was slated for May 2019, and later September. “The said time elapsed and nothing happened, no one received any alert. Some were even scared because of their bank details, which they released during the registration. “The students hope were later reignited following a piece of information that those who registered would be paid before the end of September. This hope was again shattered as there was no testimony from any student that payment was made. “The situation has become worse to the extent that many of us are beginning to take our minds off the bursary. However, even if we do, what about future occurrences? This is the reason we’ve not kept quiet. We say Kogi State should pay us our bursary or return our N650.” In what seems a contrast, however, the Igala Students Association National President, Ocheni Christian Odiba, assured that the bursary would be paid soon. He said: “We met with a top government official, who promised that everything would soon be addressed. He even showed us some prepared documents that are with the auditor and accountant (of the state) for clarification. “But we need quick backup and that’s the more reason we want to see the Accountant-General and the Commissioner for Education to facilitate the process. We are optimistic the bursary would be paid as soon as we meet these two individuals.”  Govt reacts The Kogi State Government has promised that plans are underway to ensure accredited beneficiaries get paid soon. Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor of Kogi State Promise Emmanuel, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE via the telephone, said: “The Kogi State government is vetting the lists submitted from the Bursary Board to ensure no filtration of fake beneficiaries as it was in the past.” Emmanuel explained that the N650 registration fee was collected by a consultant recruited by the state government to handle the issue. He continued: “Bursary payments in the past were nothing to write about. Governor Bello increased the value by 300 per cent. The students, who are genuine and verified beneficiaries, would get their bursaries immediately the consultants are done. “The charges of N650 was paid to bursary consultants and not into government coffers. The consultants were brought to eliminate fraud occasioned with the scheme in the past.’’