Although he is the only son of his parents from a prominent clan in the Indian city of Jodhpur, that did not stop Sanjay Jain from venturing to Africa. And Nigeria regularly came to his mind as he was approached for a job as a chartered accountant on more than two occasions. Today, he is more or less a bona fide Lagosian as a high chief and President of the Indian Cultural Association. He spoke with PAUL UKPABIO about his life adventure and issues that border on his career, marriage and social life. How would you describe yourself? I am an Indian by origin and I have stayed in Nigeria for 28 years. I am a chartered accountant by profession and I am working as the Managing Director of a company. I have worked here in other sectors like textiles, telecoms, plastic manufacturing, steel, paper manufacturing, trading houses and so on. Can you recall the first time you arrived Nigeria? When I got here, I worked as finance personnel in a trading & manufacturing company. I remember that those were the days when I was new and had lots of apprehension and lots of questions. I was curious to know the country since it was new for me then. I came with my family and slowly and steadily, I started liking Nigeria and it became my second home. I really like it out here; very friendly and warm people. It is the warmness that encouraged me to stay here, and I was encouraged to start liking it the more when we started interacting with the people. Those days were different. Currency was cheaper. Even the heavy traffic was not there in Lagos as it is now (laughs). Those were the good old days,s like people say. When you arrived, which part of Lagos did you stay? When I arrived, my office was in Isolo as well as in Idumota, and my residence was in Anthony Village. Coming to Nigeria for the first time, were you not worried about what laid ahead of you in Africa? No. I had never been to Africa or Nigeria before, but I was not worried. Instead, there was a nudging curiosity in me about what the future held, and I think that was just normal for everyone, including me. What was the feeling and interest about Africa and particularly Nigeria with regards to your wife? My wife came here and I had a son at that time. She also took some time to know the place and acclimatise. Definitely, she also felt the warmth of the people. Our house staff has been very good. They took good care of us and she started liking it also. Of course, there was the contribution from the Indian community as well, though I will not give all the credit to the Indian community but also to the Nigerian community. The Nigerian community showed us warmth and received us with open arms. They welcomed and made us friends. Those are the qualities that made us stay here and make other Indians and people from other nations too stay here without any fear or confusion. Looking back to your early years, where did you grow up? I grew up in the state of Rajasthan, India. The peculiar thing about the state is that while Sahara is the biggest desert in the world, this is the second biggest desert in the world called Thar. And the city’s name is Jodhpur, very famous in the world because it is the state of kings and queens (Rajas and Maharajas or princely state). It has one of the biggest ports and has great, famous palaces. It is also referred to as the Sun City. It has presently become a huge attraction for tourism and a centre for people who like to have destination weddings or for celebrating anniversaries and other occasions.  I went to the university there, did my chartered accountancy there, and it is indeed a big city with a population of about 4 million people. What attracted you to accountancy? Ours is the Jain community and people say that we have accountancy in our blood. This community in particular is one of the most successful business communities in India. That is why growing up and realising the environment that I was, it came natural to me that I should embrace accountancy too.  It is a famous course in India just as it is here in Nigeria where you have ICAN as the professional body. We have Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ICAI, and it is recognized in USA, Europe and many other countries across the globe. Does that mean that you come from a comfortable family in India? Oh yes, my family has always been comfortable and prominent. My grandfather was well to do and so was my father. I will say that my background was much more comfortable. We had huge ancestral mansions in my native place. When you told them that you were travelling to Nigeria for work and business, what did your family say? (Laughs) I was not permitted. My father looked straight into my eyes and denied me when I got the first opportunity for Nigeria, more so because I am the only son of my parents. My father told me there was no need for me to travel out of India. I had a job in Bombay, in one of the biggest and most renowned textile companies. After six months, some other companies came and interviewed me and offered the job to me. I told them to give me some time; that I wanted to seek permission from my father. But again, my father denied me travelling. I told the people from the company about my dad’s negative response and they said they would give me three months to decide whether I wanted to come with them or not. After that, I went to my dad, stayed with him for some days after which I used the opportunity to tell him that he should give me a chance to come to Nigeria; that I would return after two years. Being the only son, he was not very happy to release me, but he did, and I came. The rest is history. Now I’m here for 28 years (laughs). Are they still waiting for you to come back? My dad is no more. My mum too is no more. However, I have close bonding with the family and I have two sisters too. They see that I am okay here so they have not had problems with that. Even my mum came here to stay after the death of my father. You are also the President of Indian Cultural Association. What is that about? I have been attached to this association in the past 25 years. I have worked in this association for almost all the positions. I started as an ordinary member, then sub-treasurer, then treasurer, joint secretary, general secretary, vice president and now President. It is the umbrella body for Indians in Nigeria. It is almost 60 years old. It was established with two aims: to do charity work for the needy Nigerians, and to hold some cultural events and celebrate Indian festivals in Nigeria. We invite our Nigerian friends to our events so as to facilitate the interactions with them, which leads to better relationship. The whole idea is to give back to the society/community. We have done lots of charitable works which many Nigerians have benefited from. The list is very long, but let me just mention a few. We have provided the drinking water facilities in those Nigerian schools where there is no such facility. We noticed that in schools here, the pupils go out to buy pure water for themselves. Whereas in India, I grew up going to school with about 1500 pupils but we had a place within the school where there were taps sometimes up to 40 where students could go and drink water with cups. So we thought that we could have similar kind of project here too. So, we carried out a survey of the schools and started providing this in schools. We also do servicing of these projects every year. We have also adopted some old people’s homes. We service them on a monthly basis. We send them things that are needed regularly. Time to time, we visit and attend to their other needs. That project has been on for more than 15 years now.  We also engage in the project of artificial limb jointly with HMF. We cater to those who have suffered loss of limbs through accident or whatever. Some have had their limbs amputated. Most of them are poor people and don’t have enough money for artificial limbs because they are costly. Under our special project, we give them free artificial limbs so they can live well and not necessarily depend on people. We also have contributed towards an eye foundation project. We have sponsored several surgeries for needy Nigerians, such as cataract surgery and many other kinds of eye surgery/treatment. We have adopted rehabilitation centres. In the recent past, we were at Ikorodu rehabilitation centre where there are about 1,500 inmates. Though it is government owned/managed, additional resources are always welcome. We assist by supplying them food items as well as medicine. We also planted trees there. We have adopted some motherless babies’ homes too in Ketu, Lekki and other places. We extend charity to these homes too. In between these regular projects, some other projects come up too. For instance, we have plans to take our charity efforts to prisons in Apapa. Even when resources are okay there, in such places, they still need more people or organisations to support with additional supplies. We also support the special school for children suffering from the Down syndrome. There are about 70 of them in that school. Apart from these, as briefed earlier, we also hold some cultural events and celebrate our national days and important festivals. This not only gives a feeling to our community people of home away from home but also facilitates interaction with our Nigerian brothers and sisters. How many are you in the association? We have 32 members in our executive committee. As for members, there are about 50,000 Indians here, and all of them are assumed members of our association. We even have outsiders too as our members, and every one can freely come to our events and functions. You have lived in Nigeria for 28 years. Do you eat Nigerian foods? You see, I am vegetarian, so my choice is limited. I have tasted many Nigerian foods like ‘eba’ and okro soup. I like pounded yam too. I like plantain chips, corn and vegetable soup. From your interactions, do you think Nigerians eat Indian food too? That’s a good one. You see, I have lots of Nigerian friends. I take them to Indian restaurants and they eat mutton, chicken and fish. But some of them say they are vegetarians too. And those ones eat Indian bread which is freshly made. I have a colleague who sometimes comes around when I am having lunch. I tell him to join me and eat my food. Initially, he used to tell me no, he won’t eat, because he said that I was eating grass as a vegetarian and he didn’t like it (laughs). But later, he started telling me that what I eat is good and healthy. He started eating and liking our food. I see many Nigerians inclining towards our food. You must have children born to you here. Are your children more Nigerian in character than you? Absolutely! When I came to Nigeria, I had a son who was about four years old. After about three years of coming to Nigeria, my wife delivered a son. Both of them like Nigeria. They have many Nigerian friends. Currently, they are not in Nigeria as one is working and the other studying. But whenever they come here, they feel very much at home. I came to Nigeria at a matured age. They saw this country in their childhood. As children, they walked around the streets without fear and played everywhere like every other normal child. They trekked up and down, played football, basketball and volleyball with their Nigerian friends freely. My younger son was even named Finidi George after the famous Nigerian footballer. He used to wear short, go out in the morning and may not come back till evening. He interacted a lot with many of his Nigerian friends. He is very close to the house staff and they are very close to him too. We have one house help who is just as old as his mother, and my son treats her too like his mother. Is the Nigerian community marrying Indians? And is the number of marriages on both sides growing or reducing? It is growing and they are highly respected. There have been many of such marriages. Some Indians are coming in here and getting married to Nigerian boys or girls. One of the girls studying in my son’s school has an Indian dad and a Nigerian mum. There are many other examples. We actually have a Nigerian Wives Association and they use the platform to interact with each other. They have events and that association is also in touch with us. If they have any problem, they share and seek our help sometimes. They are our sisters that are married to Nigerians. There is a huge community in that segment. Also, some Nigerians went to study in India where it is not only economical but effective too. They came back and formed an association called India Alumni Association. They are also in touch with us. And they also celebrate some Indian events in Nigeria like the Mahatma Gandi’s 150th anniversary coming up in the next few weeks. Are you a member of any Nigerian club? Yes. I am. I am a member of Ikoyi Club for almost 20 years now. I go there often. I am also a member of Rotary Club; a founder member which also is called Charter Member. How about sports? I used to play Badminton. I swim too. I was a good sports man. But I got an injury when I was playing badminton and as a result of that can’t participate in many such sports anymore. How fashionable are you? I like wearing good clothing with nice accessories. I attend many fashion shows too. So, I can be termed as fashion freak. Since I was given the twin chieftaincy titles, the ‘Asiwaju’ and white feather cap chief by the Yoruba community in Lagos, I wear the Yoruba native clothes also with great interest. Even before the titles, I had been wearing the native clothing. I like Nigerian clothes and they suit me well. Do you travel to India? Yes, I do quite often; at least two to three times a year. When you are in Nigeria, what do you miss about India; and when you are in India, what do you miss about Nigeria? When I’m in Nigeria, I miss Indian festivals because they are celebrated in India on a very big scale. Sometimes, we miss that, because over here, that big scale is not available, though we celebrate here to compensate for not being in India. Sometimes, I miss some Indian foods that are not available here (laughs). And when I am in India, I miss my life in Nigeria, which is always jam-packed from morning till late night. In Nigeria, I don’t sleep until 1:30 or 2 am. If you were not an accountant, what else would you have loved to be? I would have loved to study Medicine and become a doctor. But we are Jain family and accountancy is in our blood. So, from that angle, it is quite okay for me to be a chartered accountant.