Kim Kadashian West Fashionista KKW is known for taken fashion risks and being on top of trends in the design world. Since her marriage to Kanye West, we think her style has matured and improved. This dress is a great example. We think this dress is elegant and classy, and it hugs her figure in all the right places. Cameron Diaz
Cameron Diaz is used to being at the top of the best-dressed list. While this kimono-esque nightgown might not be everyone’s favorite look, it is certainly bold and memorable.  Celine Dion
Celine Dion decided to take a risk and go for a rock chic glam look here. We aren’t sure the dark makeup or the dress was her best style choice.   Cindy Crawford
Beautiful, supermodel Cindy Crawford would wear just about anything and look gorgeous. For her first-ever Academy Award’s she picked a winner. This body-hugging Herve Leger dress shows off her incredible figure and we think she looks awesome.  Emily Ratajkowski
Emily Ratajkowski is a gorgeous woman and we love this dress on her. We think she looks like a million dollars. She looks great in black and the shape of this dress is very flattering on her sexy figure.  Salma Hayek
Just at this last Oscars, Salma Hayek wore a purple Gucci dress with a beautiful diamond Harry Winston chain. We can’t believe she is 51 years old.   Katy Perry
Katy Perry certainly started some controversy over this interesting outfit decision. Whether you love this look or hate it, we think Katy Perry achieved her goal of making a huge impact on the red carpet and challenging our expectations of how a woman should dress for this event.   Angelina Jolie
Usually such a pale-colored dress wouldn’t complement such a pale complexion. In this case, however, it totally works! This dress definitely complements her figure and she looks absolutely beautiful. While her face might look less than impressed, we think she nailed it.  Rihanna
Our favorite bad girl, Ri Ri is well known for taking fashion risks. We usually are big fans of her style, but we aren’t quite sure she pulls this one off. Some fashion experts have commented she looks like an unflattering Valentine’s Day bouquet.  Gigi Hadid
The super famous, top model and her sister have always turned heads. We wish we had their genes and bone structure! No matter which event she attends, Gigi looks stunning. This decision is no exception.  Irina Shayk
Irina’s dress was the topic of the night for many people. It is certainly revealing. We think she looks gorgeous!  Hilary Swank
Swank won an award and on the red carpet in 2000. She won the Oscar for Million Dollar Baby and she lit up the room in this beautiful, elegant blue dress.  Miranda Kerr
The Victoria’s Secret Model always looks amazing and she looks as sexy as ever in this red dress. She proudly displays quite a bit of skin with this look, and we think there might be more skin on display than material. She leaves little to the imagination and it totally works.  Lady Gaga
Lady Gaga always is always pushing the boundaries and is an amazing fashion trend setter. This outfit certainly fits the bill. Lady Gaga’s style has certainly evolved and this jump suit exudes class and timeless style.   Lupita Nyong’o
Lupita Nyong’o wore this amazing custom baby blue prada gown to the 2014 awards. Everything about this dress works on her. The floating shape, cut, neckline, everything! We think there is not one flaw in this look and it is one of our all time favorite celebrity dresses.  Kim Basinger
Kim Baginer designed this dress herself and it definitely is an unforgettable look. She rocked this white Cinderella look during the 62nd Academy Awards where she won Best Actress in a Supporting Role for her work in L.A. Confidential. 