Students of the Anambra State Polytechnic, Mgbakwu  in Awka North Local Government Area of the state have staged a peaceful protest over what they called continued neglect of the institution by the government. The students blocked the entrance to the institution, as well as paralysed administrative and academic activities in the polytechnic. The protest also extended to the government house. The students said apart from the infrastructural deficiencies in the school, the protest was to register their grievances over delay in accreditation of the institution. Speaking on behalf of the students, President, Students Union Government of the school, Mr. Innocent Ikegbuna, said the protest followed series of unfulfilled promises by the government three years after it was upgraded to a polytechnic. He said: “Apart from infrastructural deficits inside the school, the deplorable condition of the only road leading to the polytechnic is a nightmare to both staff and students. “We all abandoned our studies because we are uncertain of our future in the polytechnic. Our concern is that the polytechnic is yet to be accredited and when those who have graduated apply for jobs, they are told that their certificates are invalid. “Those of us that finished ND in the polytechnic are unable to gain admission in any other institution while those who have finished their HND are unable to go for National Youth Service.” Ikegbuna also alleged that Port Harcourt Polytechnic which was instituted the same year with theirs had been accredited, wondering why theirs still remained unaccredited. Some graduates of the school who joined in the protest lamented their inability to be mobilised for youth service as a result of non-accreditation of the school. They also said they had not been able to secure meaningful employment due to invalid certificates. One of them, Frank Imo, a graduate of Electrical/Electronics Engineering said, “I graduated last year and have been roaming about without any gainful employment because they said my certificate is invalid.  It is unbelievable that most of us are rewriting UTME.” Addressing the students, Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Nkechi Obiekezie, said the government had been making efforts to ensure full accreditation of the school. She noted that the Polytechnic had passed the verification test of the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), which prompted the board to schedule a visit to the institution by October. Acknowledging that the students grievances were not misplaced, the commissioner however noted that they were not properly informed, insisting that work was already ongoing to get the institution fully accredited and their roads constructed. She said: “We have not been sleeping; we have been working. The institution was a monotechnic before and we upgraded it to a polytechnic. My own father attended the school when it was College of Agriculture. “The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) had already visited the school last year for verification and subsequent accreditation. “Having finished the verification, they will come again this October for accreditation. I am surprised that your school authority did not inform you of the progress so far. “As regards the road, it has been awarded for construction and the contractors are waiting for the rainy season to recede for the road construction to resume. “I am asking you to calm down. All your complaints are being looked into. Your school will be accredited in no distant time. All of you will go for youth service once the accreditation has been achieved.” Meanwhile, the school has been shut down by the management following the protest. A memo signed by the Dean, Students Affairs, Mr Chinedu Ejikeme, on behalf of the registrar of the school, referred to the protest as “a dent to the polytechnic and our dear state.” He directed all the students to vacate the school “on or before noon the following day until further notice.” “Any student found in the premises after this shall face dire disciplinary actions as necessary security agencies have been duly informed. “All students are advised to go straight home and avoid further acts of misconduct and violence as repercussions await any form of disobedience,” the memo said.