Bassey Anthony, Uyo  AS the church at 112 Ikot Ekpene Road, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, remains shut with police operatives keeping an eye on the premises, new facts have emerged on the real reasons behind the crisis. The Ikot Ekpene Road branch of Qua Iboe Church, where Governor Udom Emmanuel worships, was on Sunday sealed  by police following a subsisting dispute among church leaders and members. Many had thought the crisis resulted from the controversy surrounding the change of name from Qua Iboe Church to United Evangelical Church. However, our correspondent gathered exclusively from inside sources that the major reason causing the infighting is the N180 million which Governor Emmanuel donated to the church for the welfare of members. The governor, according to sources, last year gave  N250 million to the church for the welfare of members, directing that every registered member regardless of age and status should benefit from it. The Nation also learnt that the governor had also given the branch pastor, Reverend Ibup Emah N25 million for his personal use. The bone of contention is the insistence of Pastor Emah that the church management committee chaired by Elder Onofiok Etang account for the governor’s N180 million largesse. The situation has split the church into two factions, with the faction loyal to the church committee chairman pressing for the transfer of the pastor. ”The church pastor, Reverend Emah is insisting that the committee chairman Elder Etang account for the N180 million and this is what is causing the problem. ”The situation has led to two factions in the church. While one of the factions is supporting the pastor to request for accountability, the other faction is standing with the church committee chairman. ”The governor I can tell you is on the side of Pastor Emah. He recently set up a meeting to resolve the crisis. The governor at the meeting demanded the N180 million must be accounted for and that Emah remain as the branch pastor. “It was agreed that election should be conducted to elect a new executive of the church committee as the tenure of Etang’s committee had long elapsed but as I speak to you none of resolutions reached at the meeting is being adhered to,” the source told our correspondent. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Ekerete Udoh denied that the governor’s largesse was behind the crisis or that he is taking sides. Rather, Udoh said, the governor is committed to brokering peace in the branch of the church where he worships. “This is an absolute falsehood,” he said. “The Governor, as has been widely reported, is dedicated to ensuring that peace returns to both the local assembly on 112 Ikot Ekpene Road and the National at large. “The members have commended him for his efforts and I would advise you to discountenance this  manufactured lie.”