Damisi Ojo,Akure. Three months after the peace parley of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders in Ondo state was held in Akure, the state capital, its resolutions are yet to be implemented as agreed. The meeting was initiated by its Southwest leaders including Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chiefs Bisi Akande and Segun Osoba among others to reconcile aggrieved party stalwarts with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and the ‘Team Aketi’. A special Interest Group (SIG) within Ondo APC at its meeting yesterday in Oba-Ile, Akure North local government urged its National Working Committee (NWC) under the leadership of Adams Oshiomhole to quickly implement the peace parley resolutions held last July. In a communique signed by SIG chairman, Chief Adewale Omojuwa,the group noted that it was resolved at the meeting with APC Southwest leaders that the present State Executive Committee (SEC) led by Ade Adetimehin should be dissolved. It lamented that up till now, the resolution has not been implemented. The APC stalwarts maintained that the dissolution would uphold the integrity of APC’s Constitution to deal with anti-party activities among its leaders and members. The communique reads” we are calling on the NWC to do the needful in Ondo APC by immediate dissolution of the executive committees of the parry in the state, local government and ward levels to be replaced with caretaker committees. ” We equally frown at the nomination of the current state chairman of the party, Adetimehin as a member of the Kogi state election campaign group,and must be withdrawn for involving in anti-party activities during the last Presidential/National Assembly elections in the state”. The group noted the insinuation across the state on the alleged compromise of the NWC,saying it has been affirmed with nomination of Adetimehin as member, Kogi state election campaign committee. It emphasised that APC lost the last Presidential election two Senatorial and five House of Representatives seats in the state to the opposition due to anti-party activities of party’s Excos and other top government functionaries. According to the communique” the offence of anti-party activities by members is a very grievous one within APC’s constitution as openly demonstrated in the state during the last election,where APC stakeholders openly campaigned for Action Alliance(AA) against the ruling party with impunity”. However, APC’s Director of Media and Publicity,Steve Otaloro said there is a subsisting court verdict that validated the present Exco led by Adetimehin,stressing that any move against it would amount to illegality. He said the Ondo APC chairman was duly nominated as a member of Kogi election campaign committee on merit as an astute politician.