Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the Supreme Court’s verdict on the petition brought before it by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, as apt. The APC, in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, commended the apex court for dismissing the PDP and Abubakar’s petition and for refusing to be blackmailed against its conscience. According to the party, the victory won at the Supreme Court would enable the APC-led federal administration to go ahead and face its task of delivering the Next Level programme to the people of Nigeria, congratulating President Buhari, his deputy, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), other party leaders and members of the party. The party, however, encouraged the opposition party and its presidential candidate to abandon other alleged plans to continue antagonising the government, saying democratic politics cannot thrive in chaos. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) welcomes the Supreme Court’s dismissal of the appeal filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alh. Atiku Abubakar against President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 election victory. “We congratulate Nigerians, the President; Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; party leaders, members and supporters on the Supreme Court’s verdict. “Following the earlier judgement of the 2019 Presidential Election Petition Tribunal which dismissed in its entirety the PDP and Atiku’s petition, the Apex Court was apt in dismissing the appeal for lacking merit. “The Party hails the Judiciary for standing firm in the face of the PDP and Atiku’s subterfuge and for siding with the Nigerian electorate who through their votes decided to do away with PDP’s ignominious past and re-elect the President Buhari-led APC administration which has ushered in a new era of progressive growth for our country. “With the ruling of the Supreme Court, which has finally affirmed President Buhari’s election victory, we enjoin the PDP and Atiku to jettison their destructive and disruptive agenda against Nigeria, which they have made up their minds to pursue for the next four years. “The PDP and Atiku should not confuse opposition politics for their unpatriotic agenda. Democratic politics cannot be practised in the state of anarchy, confusion which the PDP and Atiku wish to achieve. Such diabolic plan will definitely fail. “Going forward, the President Buhari-led APC government will continue to focus on delivering our Next Level plans for the country”, the party said.