Mouka, manufacturer of mattress and other bedding products, has reiterated its commitment to quality while attesting to having subdued unscrupulous persons faking their products. Speaking at a media event which marked the beginning of events lined up for the celebration of their 60th anniversary, the visibly elated MD/Chief Executive Officer [CEO], Mr. Raymond Murphy, admitted that it has been a long, successful journey for the company that started 60 years ago in Kano, Kano State, to manufacture furniture and iron beds. Admitting to the challenge of deceitful persons faking their brands, he said it was unfortunate but quickly added that it was only another attestation of the high quality and high demand of Mouka products. “It is a sign of recognition. People do not fake bad products. People only try to copy good, successful products; so it is a compliment to imitate us. Murphy explained to journalists in Lagos that “the last 60 years has been a long and successful journey for Mouka,” adding that the company has built an enduring brand in the last six decades. He described Mouka as a truly indigenous company as it is staffed by about 801 employees, with him being the only expatriate. The company, he stressed, also has over 300 distributors, some of whom are second generation distributors who have been with the company for over 40 years. Murphy also praised the shareholders of the company for giving quality and wholesome support to the company over the years. “This is a big milestone for us. At 60, we are the market share leader in the foam and beddings sector. Recent research, according to some marketing professionals whom I met on my last trip to Dubai, also attests to the fact that Mouka is not only the leader in Nigeria, but also in Africa and the Middle East,” he said. Addressing journalists during a tour of the production factory at Mouka head office, Chief Operating Officer of the company, Mr. Femi Fapohunda, said that the company uses the finest raw materials for the manufacturing of its products. Ahead of the 60th anniversary, Mouka, was, last week, endorsed by the Nigeria Association of Orthopaedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT). The endorsement comes on the back of consistency in quality delivery and innovative mattress production, which have characterised the brand’s market path in Nigeria. National president of the association, Dr. Onigbinde Ayodele, described the endorsement of Mouka as an offshoot of a detailed assessment of the brand’s orthopaedic mattresses. Before the endorsement, it has also been a harvest of laurels for Mouka. For instance, the foam manufacturing company was last month recognised by the National Employers Consultative Association (NECA) for safe work environment. This is anchored on its 2018 Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) audit exercise following what the association described as an exceptional performance by the indigenous manufacturer. Before the NECA recognition, the foremost indigenous mattress and foam products manufacturer has been recognised twice by the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG), in the group’s companies to inspire Africa report. Mouka was listed in the LSEG’s companies to Inspire Africa2019 report after it made the 2017 inaugural edition. Speaking, CEO of Mouka said the foam company had to work earnestly to consolidate its performance in the sector to make the list of companies to inspire Africa for the second consecutive edition. To be included in the list, companies need to be privately held, and show an excellent rate of growth and potential to power African development. Mouka was recognised alongside 360 companies from 32 countries across the continent represented in this year’s report, boasting an incredibly impressive average compound annual growth rate of 46 per cent, up from 16 percent in 2017. The foundation for Mouka was laid 60 years ago in the historic city of Kano when the scion of the Faiz Moukarim family started the Moukarim Metalwood factory to manufacture furniture and iron beds. Since then, Mouka has gone into manufacturing of foam and spring mattresses, as well as other bedding products at its three production facilities across Nigeria. The company has also developed an extensive distribution network with more than 1,000 branded sales outlets nationwide.