Students of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) have expressed mixed feelings on the capability or otherwise of the security unit of the institution in enforcing the school’s dress code. This is despite management’s claim that the security unit is doing its best in that regard. Checks by CAMPUSLIFE show a seeming but relentless war by AAUA against the rise in indecent dressing on campus. Akin Steven, a final year student of Microbiology, described the institution’s dress code  as a step in the right direction, adding that the security unit has been fair with respect to enforcement. He said: “Most students due to peer pressure, exhibit indecent dressing to probably ‘want to belong’ to the high class on campus. So management has actually done the right thing in that direction.” Supporting Steven is Daramola Aderayo, a 100-Level Mass Communication student. “It is a good decision on the part of the management as this inappropriate appearance had made a lot of students fall victim of sexual abuse. It has also given some students bad names,” Aderayo said. According to Banjoko Blessing, a 400-Level student of Guidance and Counselling, the security unit has not fared well enough in enforcing the dress code directive by management. Aderemi Adeola from the Department of Linguistics praised the management for laying emphasis on appropriate dressing, saying it would decrease the rate at which some students especially females dress to class. She berated some security officials who have cashed in on that to unnecessarily harass students and sometimes demonstrate favouritism. She gave an instance of a colleague who was harassed despite appearing  ‘appropriately dressed’. Corroborating Adeola, Adetona Henry, a 200-Level Physics/Electronics undergraduate, blamed the security unit for often going out of bounds. “I was about to enter the school through the small gate when the security asked why I was dressed in this manner. He asked me to go and change my dress. Despite my appeal to see reasons with me, I was not allowed to enter the school,” Henry said while narrating his ordeal at the hands of the security officers.