First City Monument Bank (FCMB) is partnering incubators in search of startups across the country with innovative e-solutions to address challenges, DANIEL ESSIET reports Banks across Africa are investing in programmes to boost scalable companies that use technology to innovate in the production of consumer goods or provide corporate services in education, logistics, energy, fintech, agriculture or healthcare. They provide seed investment to early stage companies that improve and facilitate access of essential goods and services to the underserved, effectively promoting inclusive growth. First City Monument Bank (FCMB) Managing Director, Adam Nuru said the bank is determined to contribute to building an enabling ecosystem for innovative businesses. Speaking in Lagos during the demo  and pitch day of  the Agritech Incubation Programme  organised by FCMB, conjunction with Wennovation Hub, Nuru said start-ups are important drivers of innovation. To scale and spread new technologies and services, they need an integrated ecosystem that provides access to markets and finance. According to him, agriculture is one of the biggest industries that needs the most optimisation at every level to reduce negative impacts. Nuru said the bank is ready to contribute assets and expert networks to help some of early-stage innovators get to the next level. He said challenges in the space were many, but that it was heartening to see the passion and ability of the young startups who are working towards accomplishing their goals. Crop IT Managing Partner Femi Afolabi said the emergence of startups using  emerging deep technologies, such as artificial intelligence, will have the greatest potential to drive and profit in agribusiness. He said the economy needs startups that could influence system-level change, such as improving food supply chain and solutions supporting profitable agriculture. The initiative, grounded in the agricultural firm’s innovation partnership approach, would support the expansion of high-impact and digitally-enabled services to farmers and extension officers across Nigeria over the next three years. He said Crop IT’s mission is to employ technical know-how to increase smallholder income and productivity by 50 percent reaching at least 40 percent women across Nigeria. The Chairman, Farmcrowdy, Onyeka Akumah,  said agriculture is witnessing a transition to tech-driven growth across the value-chain, such as supply chain management, e-commerce-based B2B and B2C models, processing technologies and equipment, storage and logistics, food safety, packaging, and distribution and retail. According to collaborations, linkages and partnerships, among key stakeholders, would help develop scalable future-ready solutions, he said. He said agri-tech is thriving and future innovations are likely to  address the issues that the farming industry faces. The Divisional Head Agribusiness of FCMB, Mr. Kudzai Gumunyu, said startups can transform the agri economy by linking farmers to the markets, adding value to the agri produce, reducing wastages and developing efficient supply chains. According to him, startups were  playing a pivotal role in accomplishing this transformation in the sector.  He added that innovative technologies and business models were being tested for aggregation, logistics, processing, new products development and market linkages. He said the bank is focused on supporting start-ups to connect with the farming community and boost innovation, make a real positive impact, driving productivity and improving profitability. The Chief Executive, Crop2Cash Limited, Mr. Michael Ogundare, said his organisation is working to use technology to enable banks lend to farmers using verifiable data approach. Wennovation hub partnered FCMB to fund two agri-tech startups that emerged winners to realise their dreams of business expansion. This happened during the agri-tech incubation programme/demo day, which called for startups with ideas in agri-finance/insurance, procurement and supply chain management, and other agric-ICT areas. It was a culmination of over seven weeks of  hard work, collaboration, expertise, and passion. Ten selected startups out of 320 applications from across the country, made the finale. They, firms that battled for the grand prize of N1.25million, include Agrieasy, Farm Chain, Mr Farm, CsComtron, Farm Aid, Agro Barn, Osfield Hire, Agroco, Farm Bank and Ozidi. At the end, Agro Barn, led by Oscar Obiora Udebuana, won. Agro Barn is an agritech company that turns information into insights for rural farmers. Udebuana said the firm will ensure food sustainability. Last year, Crop2cash won the grand prize. The FCMB-Wennovation Hub AgriTech incubation programme seeks to guide early stage entrepreneurs. 