For several years, pilots flying into the Nigeria’s airspace have complained of ‘dark or ‘blind spots ‘, resulting from poor radio communication between ground-based personnel – air traffic controllers – and the cockpit. To prevent air accidents and loss of revenue to other countries, the airspace agency has unfolded some measures, Senior Correspondent KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports Global efforts to improve communication between ground-based personnel – air traffic controllers and aircraft pilots – i gaining traction in the air navigation value chain. Reason: effective controller – pilot communication contributes significantly to the global call by international aviation organisations to push for enhanced flight safety and security. According to the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), the number of flights by the airline industry globally has been steadily increasing since the early 2000s and is expected to reach 39.4 million by the end of the year. This figure, the global body said, is over one million higher than the prediction for the previous year, representing an increase of over 50 percent a decade before. It is for this reason that the 192- member states of the global aviation regulator – ICAO and other international bodies prescribed the minimum requirements: in terms of equipment profile that is required for effective air traffic management and communication navigation and surveillance for aircraft navigating the global airspace. Besides the ICAO requirements, Nigeria as an ICAO member-state has joined other air navigation services providers to seek measures aimed at reducing complaints of poor radio communication by users of its airspace, including aircraft owners and their pilots. Statistics from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) shows that 30,040 flights were operated in Nigeria from January to June, this year. About 59,818 flights were recorded from January to December 2018 compared to 48,319 flights recorded in 2017. But, in the last few years, pilots, air traffic controllers and other stakeholders in Nigeria have raised serious concerns over the parlous state of radio communication in the airspace. Some pilots complained that it was difficult to reach the radio frequencies operated by the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) for effective air navigation. Besides pilots operating flights within the country, others using Nigerian airspace to reach their destination, which in aviation par lance is known as overflights, threatened to boycott the airspace, if remedial action was not taken by the government. If such pilots carried out their threat, Nigeria could lose significant foreign exchange earnings paid by such airspace users. The pilots said they would patronise contiguous airspace of other countries , including Ghana, Benin Republic, Niger and Cameroon to get to their destination . Investigations revealed that some pilots had lodged complaints with ICAO to call Nigeria to order in addressing the air safety infraction. Worried over the trend, NAMA embarked on serious infrastructure revolution to address the gap. A pilot, and President, Flight Crew Association of Nigeria (FCAN), Captain Robert Roland, recently called on government to address communication challenges in the airspace. He said the development was of grave concern to pilots and other stakeholders because of its effects on air safety. In an interview, its Managing Director, Captain Fola Akinkuotu, said the agency had acknowledged the challenge and had taken steps to address the problem of blind spots in the airspace which hitherto created headache for pilots. Investigations, however, revealed that  many factors were responsible for the lingering challenge. Experts’ complaint Besides pilots, air traffic controllers had consistently called on the government to fix sore points in airspace infrastructure, especially air based equipment. Part of such air based equipment is completion of Very High Frequency Radio Frequency, in aviation par lance known as VHF radio communication Speaking in an interview, President of Nigerian Association of Air Traffic Controllers  (NATCA), Comrade Abayomi  Agoro called on the government to address issues bordering on air traffic controllers work load; controllers fatigue; obscure track labels; sector split or sector  collapse which were impacting on the quality of their functions. He said the authorities needed to fix urgently issues bordering in flight data display,  which was not updated to show direct routing; production pressure as well as inadequate training. Investigations revealed that besides loss of significant revenue, threat to air safety; blind spots in the Nigerian airspace due to poor airspace radio  communication fired many aircraft on en – route flights to use adjacent airspaces, including Ghana and Niger Republics. Akinkuotu , while admitting that though radio communication in the airspace was not performing optimally a few years ago, said the airspace agency has taken aggressive steps to tackle the challenge. He said the goal of the agency was to eliminate such blind spots in any sector of the airspace to improve efficient air navigation for users of the airspace. Akinkuotu said: ‘’In the last few years, radio communication was not at its best. Effort has being made to fix it.” Also speaking in an interview, the National Association of Air Traffic Engineers (NAAE) President, Ishaya Dung, said the agency has evolved intervention measures geared towards reducing blind spots in the Nigerian airspace. While noting that there were some areas where pilots lodged complaints about blind spots in the past, Dung confirmed that the issue of blind spots in the Nigerian airspace was  becoming a thing of the past. Dung said:  “ The airspace agency through assistance from government  bought new long range radios for installation. They were new equipment and that was the first time radios were deployed in our system. So far, that challenge has been taken care of and it has been testified to by some of the pilots that have used the equipment. Despite the successes recorded in that area, the NAAE President  said because NAMA had got it right, the level of pilots’ complaints have equally reduced, advising the agency not to rest on its oars. He said:” I have not heard of any complaints again’’. Training to the rescue At the recently concluded International Federation of Air Traffic Safety Electronics Association (IFATSEA)  conference in Abuja,  the director of safety electronics and engineering services, Umar Farouk, disclosed that the agency had trained 80 personnel in 2019   at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology  (NCAT) , in Zaria. This, he said, had become imperative to bridge the gap in manpower and ensure that ageing work force was being replaced. He said such intervention had become necessary to train technical personnel to match the drive in  the acquisition and installation of state-of-the-art air navigation equipment. Other measures To  boost the clarity of radio communication, especially at the upper airspace, the agency investigations revealed that  steps have been taken to replace all the Very High Frequency (VHF) radios at the eight remote sites in Lagos, Kano, Wukari, Sokoto, Ilorin, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Maiduguri. An official said the agency has also added six new sites in Jos, Kaduna, Yola, Enugu, Benin and Calabar, bringing to 14 VHF sites nationwide. These VHF remote sites, he said, are operated in a network, which will have signal pattern that covers the entire airspace. He said the agency has also taken delivery of the VHF radio equipment under the “Extended Range VHF Coverage” project, affirming that its installation will start soon. He said last year, NAMA deployed four stand-alone Jotron High-power long range VHF radios at Lagos East and Lagos West as well as Kano East and Kano West Area Control Centres (ACCs). He said it was a backup solution  to address Remote Control Air-to- Ground (RCAG) communication challenges in the upper airspace by providing reliable backup in the event of loss of VHF radio communication on the main system. Road to sectorisation Investigations revealed that air traffic management assessment of the airspace was conducted in 1991.This was preparatory to the deployment of satellite communication system in the country. Experts said studies carried out by international bodies confirmed the need for a sectored operation in Lagos and Kano. Reactions on sectorisation In a  recent forum in Abuja , NAMA’s Director of Operations, Mr Mathew Pwajok said sectorisation  of the Lagos airspace has made the job of air traffic controllers easier and more efficient. He said : ‘’Maintenance remains key in the system and in a bid to further enhance safety in the country and capture low level aircraft in the Gulf of Guinea, the agency has commenced installation of wide area multilateration equipment to boost the activities of oil exploration in the area.” Pilots’, airlines’ reactions Speaking in separate interviews, pilots from Arik Air, Air Peace, Medview Airlines, Dana Air , Overland Airways , AZMAN Air and Max Air confirmed improvement in radio communication in the airspace. They declined to give their names because they were not the spokespersons of their carriers. They said it was unprofessional to make public statement on such matters, but to report to the regulatory body and other aeronautical bodies their observations about airspace infrastructure, if there was need for improvement or threat to safety or the aircraft they man. But, retired pilots – Captain Prex Porbeni and Captain Dele Ore – said there was room for improvement on airspace facilities. They said airspace equipment have improved over many years ago. This, they said, was responsible for the increase in foreign carriers flights into Nigeria.