Mike Odiegwu, Yenagoa The Nigerian Army at the weekend commenced the fourth edition of Operation Crocodile Smile (OCS) in Bayelsa State with a free medical outreach. The army emphasized that the fourth edition, which would end in December 23, was aimed at consolidating the mileage gained in previous exercises in its Area of Responsibility (AoR). “The purpose is essentially targeted at security challenges associated with militancy, oil theft, pipeline vandalism, kidnapping for ransom, politically induced violence among others on land, sea and rivulets in view of the fast approaching yuletide”, the Army said in a statement in Yenagoa. Commander, 16 Brigade, Nigerian Army, Brig- Gen. Valentine Okoro, took the free medical rhapsody, which is an integral part of the operation, to Otuokpoti community in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. Okoro said the medical outreach and other humanitarian activities embedded in OCS were in tandem with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, to have a socially and professionally responsive army. He said such activities were aimed at building the confidence citizens and secure their cooperation during the OCS designed to curb crimes in the state. He said: “This medical outreach is the first in the series of activities lined to mark the commencement of Operation Crocodile IV. Other activities would be held at other communities in the state coordinating the operations to curb the state of criminality and violence. “In line with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff which is to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in its discharge of its constitutional role we would be embarking of several support programmes to enhance better understanding and deeper collaboration with our hoist communities. “This would be done with the overall objective of promoting confidence in Nigerian Army towards curbing violence and crimes. We hope that the collaboration we are having with the community of Otuokpoti would foster and yield positive results between it and Nigerian Army towards achieving peace and security in Otuopkoti and generally in Bayelsa State. We work towards the reduction of violence.” The army deployed medical experts in the community during the rhapsody, which was attended by many residents with various sicknesses. They also dewormed children, conducted medical tests for malaria, typhoid and administered drugs on persons, who tested positive.