A mother of four, Mrs Kehinde Olakitan, has allegedly died at the Mojisola Maternity clinic located in the rustic Onipanu area of Ogun State while trying to procure an abortion from a quack doctor. The husband discovered the corpse which was dropped in front of a building adjacent to his, shortly after he was called on phone by a nurse identified as Dupe Odebunmi that his wife was ill and admitted at the Mojisola Maternity Clinic. The husband, it was learnt told the Police that after hurrying to the clinic, he found nobody there but was shocked to find the remains of his wife dumped close their home. The alleged quack doctor; Salahudeen Jamiu, 56, who carried out the unsafe abortion that led to the death of the woman is said to be the proprietor of Mojisola Maternity Clinic and has since been apprehended by the Police on October 24th. The Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed this in a release on Sunday, stated that the suspect has been arrested while the corpse of the woman has also been kept at the morgue of the state hospital, Ota. He stated: “The suspect was arrested following a report by the husband of the deceased who reported at Onipanu division that he received a call from one Dupe Odebunmi who claimed to be a nurse that his wife one Kehinde Olakitan was sick and on admission at Mojisola Maternity clinic belonging to the suspect. “The husband stated further that on getting to the clinic, he found nobody there, but on his way back home, he discovered the corpse of his wife in front of a building close to his house. “The Divisional Police Officer of Onipanu division, a Superintendent of Police(SP) Magdalene Adeniji detailed detectives to launch a serious manhunt for the Operator of the Maternity center. Their efforts yielded positive result when the suspect was arrested on the 24th of October 2019. “When interrogated the suspect admitted carrying out an abortion on the deceased who was brought to him by her friend by named Dupe Odebunmi and that the deceased a mother of four died in the process. “He confessed further that it was out of fear that made him dumped her corpse in the frontage of a house close to the woman’s residence. “The corpse of the deceased has been deposited at the general hospital Ota mortuary for autopsy.” According to Abimbola, the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, has directed that the suspect should be transferred to homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for proper investigation and prosecution. He appealed to the public to always patronize qualify health providers whenever the need arises instead of seeking medical assistance from quack and unqualified practitioners.