 Following the exploit of Aruna Quadri coupled with his growing profile globally; the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) has tipped the Nigerian to lead the continent’s charge at the 2019 Team World Cup in Tokyo. 12 top teams including continental champions will compete at the tournament which serves as test event for Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games from November 6 to 10 with Nigeria and Egypt representing Africa in men and women events. In pre-tournament article released by the world body, Quadri has been described as African superstar that can cause a major upset against any player in the world at the tournament. “Victory over rivals Egypt at the final hurdle of the 2018 ITTF-African Championships handed Nigeria its ticket for the Team World Cup as Africa’s representative. A quarter-finalist at the 2014 World Cup and history maker at Rio 2016 with his astonishing quarter-final finish, Nigeria has unsurprisingly turned to African superstar Quadri Aruna to lead the line in Tokyo. The 2019 African Games champion Olajide Omotayo also earns selection. Bode Abiodun, Segun Toriola and Azeez Solanke make up the rest of the squad,” the article stated. It added: “Nigeria will be appearing at the event for the first time since 2010, so fans will be hoping to see the African nation grasp the opportunity with both hands. In 2013 Egypt shocked the world to claim Team World Cup bronze so rule out this Nigerian team at your peril.” Also, today in France, Quadri will be leading Sporting to the return leg against GV Hennebont TT in the ETTU Champions League. The 2019 Nigeria Open champion spearheaded Sporting’s 3-1 triumph over the French side last week in Lisbon and today in Paris they will be hoping to repeat same feat against the French champion. After 3:1 loss, last Friday in Portugal, French club GV Hennebont TT hosts Sporting Clube De Portugal, determined to win and keep chances for the quarter-finals. Quadri was man of the match five days ago, but Belgium’s Cedric Nuytinck and his teammates believe in their strength on home soil.