To boost foreign exchange earnings for the country, stakeholders in the cocoa sub-sector advise that there should be genuine commitment to enhance the value of cocoa through value addition and expansion of commercial opportunities, writes DANIEL ESSIET. Cocoa is essential to the livelihoods of 40 to 50 million people worldwide, including over five million smallholder cocoa farmers who grow the valuable crop. For instance, the growing popularity of cocoa on account of its health benefits is driving the market. Scientists have confirmed that cocoa is essential for the achievement of reduced inflammation and risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), better blood circulation and improved cholesterol levels. Furthermore, increase in use of organic products due to their long-lasting skin care benefits has boost up the demand for cocoa beans in the cosmetics sub-sector. According to Grand View Research, United States-based market research and consulting company, the industry is undergoing unprecedented growth in order to cater for changing desires of the consumers. The impact of cocoa on the global economy is growing. Across the world, the industry provides millions of jobs and contributes significantly to gross domestic product (GDP) globally. The international cocoa beans market size is expected to reach $16.32 billion by 2025. Among the abundant natural resources that may be found in Nigeria, cocoa stands out. While cocoa is the nation’s best-performing commodity, growers are still reeling from price volatility, when bigger-than-expected harvests sent prices tumbling. The plunge hurt, cut incomes for thousands of farmers and served as a stark reminder of how vulnerable producers are to swing in international markets. One of those affected is the Chairman, All Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (AFAN) Atakumosa West Local Government Area of Osun State. Olusoji is a cocoa famer. He has been in the business for more than 25 years. He farms on more than 20 hectares of land. Income from cocoa, he noted, enables families to pay for their basic commodities, medicines and schooling for their children. According to him, there are vast opportunities that farmers can take advantage of, adding that the key to the success of cocoa both in the domestic and international markets is in the quality of the beans and the workers who produce them. For him, there is always a market for cocoa; sometimes not at its best price. He then reeled off some of the challenges to its sustainability, which include the problems of climate change, deforestation and disease and some of the ways they were being addressed. All the solutions he proffered point to one intractable problem. However, it has become almost impossible for the people of Osu dependent on cocoa to survive on the money they make from the crop. OSU contributes to the total cocoa beans Nigeria offers the world chocolate market but the average daily earnings for a farmer are poor. Demand for chocolate has been growing worldwide and it’s expected to continue on this path over the coming years.  Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Cameroon and Togo are the main cocoa-producing countries in West Africa. Among the most important final destinations for Nigeria’s cocoa is Europe where more than 800,000 tons of chocolate are consumed each year. But the relationship between the chocolate consumers and producers has undergone a profound shift. When cocoa prices were high in the 1970s, the beans accounted for nearly half of the value of a chocolate bar. Currently, producers receive around six per cent of the value of the final product. The rest goes to branded manufacturers who take roughly 44 per cent share and retailers who take 35 per cent. This is because the squeeze in the value of the commodity makes the situation of cocoa farmers ever more precarious. Since 2016, the price for cocoa has fluctuated between $1,500 and $2,400 a ton. Although there have been schemes to  improve  the quality of production and yields, experts believe that supply glut and subsequent fall in global prices from 2017 shows the danger of boosting production without pursuing value addition. Globally, the market price of cocoa has been falling and the Programme Coordinator, Farmers’ Development Union (FADU) Victor Olowe believes that it was a major reason to add value to the nation’s cocoa beans. While Nigeria’s influence on global cocoa supply is massive, it’s mostly limited to unprocessed beans. Olowe said: “It was necessary to move from the sale of the raw cocoa beans to processed cocoa. Overly reliance on the export of raw cocoa was at the expense of the value creation as it is destroying local value.” Continuing, Olowe said: “Cocoa producers should invest in cocoa processing facilities to cut down on the cost of local processing and increase domestic consumption.” As Nigeria processes cocoa at home, the Chief Operating Officer, the Centre for Cocoa Development Initiative, Robo Adhuze added that there are employment opportunities in the manufacturing of chocolate and butter. Adhuze said there was good potential for increasing the export of processed cocoa rather than exporting only cocoa beans. He said exporters needed to add value to the cocoa and much of that is done outside of the economy. While Nigeria, like other West African countries, have been seeking fortunes in cocoa, what exporters sell mostly are unprocessed beans. This is because the European cocoa and chocolate industry traditionally imports cocoa beans as raw material. Processing of cocoa and the purchasing of semi-finished products are traditionally done within Europe. According to analysts, the European chocolate industry prefers to keep different processing steps under close control. The idea is to ensure quality management but, most importantly, to match consumer tastes in different markets. Adhuze said a lot has not been implemented to get the cocoa industry back on track. He lamented that Nigeria and other cocoa producers have long been at the mercy of traders who set cocoa prices thousands of miles away in London and New York. He said chocolate manufacturing is a thriving business, in which big companies make high profits. While these companies are competing for ever higher market shares and higher profits, he said millions of cocoa farmers’ bear the costs by getting less and less share from the revenues.  He said insecurity of farmers’ income is affected by volatile cocoa prices. The consequences of price volatility, together with increasing production costs, he maintained, are economic insecurity and impoverishment for cocoa farmers. The only way out of the price volatility, he explained, is to improve upon processing and local production. Adhuze believes re-energising the cocoa sector entails building the capacity of farmers and providing them with high-quality planting materials. The other factor is introducing sustainable farming methods in cocoa-producing communities. He wants farmers to be trained in integrated crop pests and quality management, farm safety and child labour through the farmers’ field schools. Aside from training, he said farmers need seedlings of improved cocoa varieties. The clamour, according to him, is for high-yielding, disease-resistant and early-maturing seeds that can produce fruits within three years if the recommended agronomic practices are followed. According to him, long neglect has affected transportation and storage infrastructure and left most of the farmlands fallow for the most part. The President, Cocoa Farmers’ Association of Nigeria, Adeola Adegoke said improving cocoa production would benefit families of farmers. And in a country where unemployment rate is more than 70 per cent of the working population, he was of the opinion that strengthening the position of cocoa as a cash crop will provide an opportunity for increasing employment and foreign exchange earnings. Other stakeholders said it was not attractive to sell cocoa at a discount to local processors as there was ample demand internationally at premium prices.  Challenge  The primary reason many Nigerians do not patronise locally-made chocolates is because they are expensive and cannot be catered for by the ordinary man’s pocket.  Cocoa’s promising market  Despite negative impacts of economic downturn, analysts say the demand for cocoa in the food and chocolate confectionaries market will continue. Also the newfound application in cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry keeps the pace of gains for the market high. The recent trends of using it as a raw material across diverse industries are also expected to give impetus to the cocoa market. In a stable market, a ton of bulk cocoa has an average value that ranges between $3,100 and $3,500 per ton. A Senior Lecturer, the University of Ibadan, Dr. Adeola Olajide called for concerted efforts to support cocoa farmers to improve their livelihood in the face of a number of social and economic challenges. Dr. Olajide said the cocoa sub-sector is a major engine of economic activity, generating significant export revenue and providing livelihood for many farmers. Future sustainable development of the sector, she noted, faces significant challenges, which include falling productivity, diminishing farmer incomes, poor physical infrastructure that obstruct access to markets and concerns over deforestation