Akindele Justina Temitayo, a 200-level student of History and International Studies department, Federal University Oye-Ekiti has emerged Miss Ekiti 2019. The event was witnessed by students, captains of industries, traditional rulers, political persons and entertainment personality at AB Civic Centre, Ado Ekiti at the weekend. Saheed Balogun, a popular veteran actor and Taiyelolu, were host and co-host for the event while OAP AyNigeria and Queencyglo were red carpet hosts. Raji Abimbola 23 Foundation is the organizer of the event. The purpose of Miss Ekiti yearly is to encourage young ladies across the Continent to live their dreams. The judges for the pageantry show were Miss Ekiti 2017, CEO of DE Elegant Expertise Palais; Owajoba Busayo, CEO of Seatop Media/Printing and Publishing; Seun Awopegba and Award winning Nollywood actress; Dupe Jaiyesimi. The process of selecting the winner by the Judges was based on “Communication, Education, Health, Entrepreneurship, Arts & Culture, Environment, Welfare, Technology and Financial Management, the sole objectives are to uplift, empower and cater for the dignity of young ladies, women and the less privileged in all facets of life using this Vital Values”, as announced by the organiser. Temitayo emerged defeated 20 others contenders while Iyeku Peace emerged as first runner up and Adesioye Adetutu as second runner up. The winner of Miss Ekiti 2019, is entitled to a Brand new car, one year wardrobe allowance, trip abroad and a well furnished office. First runner up is entitled to N200,000, well furnished office, one year free makeover, spokesperson and brand ambassador for every child deserves to be in classroom campaign. Second runner up is entitled to 100,000, well furnished office, one year free makeover, spokesperson and brand ambassador for every child deserves to be in classroom campaign. The winner expressed excitement over winning the contest and promise to impact the society through her office. ” I felt very good and so happy that I was crying. I didn’t expect it We were 20 that participated in the contest. “I intend to use my office to impact the society in the best way I can. I have a project am working on which will be revealed very soon. I am sure by the time I carry out my project the impact will be felt in Ekiti and outside Ekiti,” she said. Awodola Oluwaseun, The Students Union President of Federal University Oye-Ekiti, in a statement congratulated Miss Ekiti 2019 for bringing the crown home. He said: “Projecting the beauty and royal dignity of the institute,even in adverse, we choose to be of positive impact and being of virtue. “The Student Union hereby felicitate and congratulates our very own Justina for topping and bringing the crown home.” 