 FOURTEEN Edo State House of Assembly members-elect on Monday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene in the crises rocking the Assembly. At a news conference in Abuja, they urged the National Assembly and the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Working Committee (NWC) to call Governor Godwin Obaseki to order. The lawmakers-elect, led by Washington Osifo, said the President should ensure that the right thing is done. They said in a statement: “How can it be said that an APC state is embarrassing the nation like this? It is not the intention of Mr President to run a government like this. “Mr President, we call on you to remember that you sent a message to the Edo parliament, yet to be inaugurated, when our brothers in Bauchi visited you some months ago. “You told them that the reason why they were inaugurated was to defend the constitution. “You sent another message to us that, immediately your cabinet is inaugurated, the first assignment for your Attorney-General and Minister of Justice would be to look at the situation in Bauchi and Edo states to resolve them. “You said: ‘I will see to it that these wrongs are made right. The issue is that this madness in Edo must be corrected’.” The lawmakers-elect also urged the National Assembly to come to their aid. They said: “As for the National Assembly, we urge them to do what is right because they are the first lawmaking body and perhaps the tallest in governance. “Therefore, if they abdicate their rights, nothing will go well in this country. Gov. Obaseki and his aides boasted that nothing will come out of the National Assembly investigation and now, we are thinking: is that boast coming to fruition? “As for the National Working Committee of our great party, we want to thank them and pledge our loyalty to them and that we are grateful for the tickets they gave go us to run. “Justice can be delayed. But, when it is delayed for too long, it becomes manifest injustice. We want to call on them to look at the laws and the constitution that regulate the activities of the party and where they need to use it, let them have the courage to use it.” The members, loyal to APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, were not sworn on June 17 when Governor Obaseki inaugurated their colleagues.