Banditry seems not to be abating in Zamfara State despite government’s recent offer of negotiation and amnesty to gunmen troubling the state. In the latest of their attacks,   bandits numbering 300  invaded three local government areas looting  foodstuffs, 300 cows, cash and other valuables. The bandits also killed nine soldiers and then moved to  the  Birnin Gwari Forest in Kaduna State. The attack is causing anxiety in the state. A highly-placed source in the state told The Nation that the AK 47 -wielding bandits rode on  150 motorcycles (at two each)  and easily invaded Mayanchi and Maru from their base in Bayan Ruwa in Maradun Local Government Area. They wreaked havoc in Sunke in Anka Local Government Area ,killing  nine soldiers . The source said: “These bandits raided some parts of Zamfara on Thursday night to Friday morning. They came from Bayan Riwa and passed through Sunke, Mayanci and Maru. “At Mayanci junction, they ransacked all the shops, collected foodstuffs, many loaves of bread and cigarettes. “They went to a fuel station in Mayanci and filled up their 150 motorcycles apart from taking away the N300,000 sale proceeds from the staff on duty. “The people of Mayanci were helpless because each motorcycle was ferrying two bandits with AK 47 rifles. “They also pounced on herdsmen and loaded cattle into some trucks to their base in Birnin Gwari. “These bandits killed nine soldiers in Sunke in Anka Local Government Area in what appeared like an ambush. “It is unfortunate that this is happening in spite of the amnesty deal with the bandits. Most of us were left distraught because policemen were nowhere to assist us.” Findings by our correspondent revealed that security agencies are  already probing  the incident especially alleged “no response attitude of the Nigeria Police officers and men in the affected areas.” A reliable security officer said: “Military authorities and security agencies have started probing the invasion of some of these towns. “The military command in Sokoto actually alerted the police in Zamfara but there was no response at all. A senior police officer merely said he was aware that the bandits were in transit to the forest in Birnin Gwari.”