Chief Nnamdi Ezeani is the Chief Executive, Autodex Nigeria Limited, a company which specialises in the assembling of completely knockdown (CKD) vehicles in Nigeria. In this interview with Emeka Ifeakandu the entrepreneur speaks on the prospects and challenges of a service support business. How long have you been in the business? I have been in the business since 2012. Why did you choose the business? I chose the business because I found out that there is a problem with mechanisation in Nigeria and lack of tractors for farmers to hire. Research shows that most states in Nigeria have large farms and tractors for hire to farmers but majority of these tractors break down due to lack of spare parts and qualified mechanics. We started with assembling tricycles and motor bikes then later moved on to assembling vans and buses, we moved on to tractors in 2012 due to a request for supplying tractors by farmers associations. What is your current market share and who are your greatest rival? The current market share is 10%. Our greatest rivals are the Indian companies and Chinese companies flooding Nigeria with cheap substandard tractors. Who are you looking up to? We are the first CKD (completely knockdown) in Nigeria so we are trying to set a standard that will be a global standard. Do you source your equipment from original equipment manufacturers? Yes we do, we source our equipment from Europe and Asia. When we import from Europe, it will take approximately two weeks and from China it will take about 45days to get to our company in Nigeria. Can you tell us about your experiences and challenges thus far? There is no national standard for mechanisation so we have had to work with various agencies of the government to achieve our goals. Currently, we have a relationship with the National Centre of Agricultural Mechanisation (NCAM) and the Ministry of Agriculture to formulate a standard of training of tractor drivers and tractor mechanics and also getting the first Nigerians tractor specifications from NCAM. Do you have plans to expand elsewhere in Nigeria? We have presence across the 36 states of the federation including one repair centre in each of the states. However, our assembly plants will be in Abuja.