Comrade Razaq Olokoba is a pro-democracy activist and public affairs analyst. He is the National President, Campaign for Dignity in Governance (CDG), a coalition of about 70 other pro-democracy organisations. In this interview with Olalekan Ale, Sodiq Mojibola, Adepeju Ade-Oseni and Yunus Rasheed, Olokoba called on leaders and elders of the northern geo-political zones to ignore suggestions by few greedy and unpatriotic people among them when taking decisions concerning the 2023 presidential contest. He also took a critical look at the performance of the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Excerpts It is believed in some quarters that it is too early to start discussion on 2023 election which is four years away. What is your own take on that? There is nothing wrong to begin to look at the political projection towards 2023 from now. And that is what every organised country in the world would do. Even, institutions that are not political in nature have projections of shapes of things to come. So, if we start to talk about colouration of the political future of Nigeria, there is nothing bad in that. Particularly, one of the most important issues in Nigeria today is what is going to happen in2023. It is about where the presidential pendulum would swing. It is important for organisations like ours to keep sensitizing the people to keep bringing out issues to make Nigerians live harmoniously. We have to keep advocating for character and attitude of each ethnic group, organisation and each political party about things that would make Nigerians to live in peace and harmony. And that is why the ethnic group that has the largest number in the country, which is the northern part of the country, should concede the highest political office in the land to the southern axis of the country. We have to keep talking to them because their case has become a recurring decimal in national discourse. And I think that as someone from another ethnic group also, I hold it as a responsibility to express my view on what will continue to bring peace and harmony amongst all the ethnic groups that make up Nigeria. So, the most profitable relationship the north had ever had is the one with the Yoruba of the south-west. And since 2015 till date, there is no breaking out of war. There is no threat to the unity of the country. So, it is therefore important for them to do a profit/loss analysis of relationships they have had with other ethnic groups in the country. And if that is true, which I know is correct analysis, that means that the relationship should be guided jealously. It means such a relationship that portends good for the nation should be protected and secured. And because of that, I will encourage our northern brothers to understand the implication of break-down of trust by the three other regions. If they cannot be trusted by the South-south and southeast, they should, for God’s sake, promote and nurture the good relationship they have with the South-west. When we entered into the relationship in 2015, through the alliance, some other ethnic groups were insinuating that the relationship would soon hit a brick wall. Their reason is borne out of their belief that our northern brothers have the penchant for not taking to agreement and disrespect for understanding and mutual relationship they have had with other ethnic groups in the past. And this is the notion to be proved wrong by our northern brothers this time. What then is your proposal towards achieving that? My proposal is simple. It is that 2023 should be used for that experiment where all of us should begin to trust each other, where all of us would look at what Nigeria looked like 50 years ago, of mutual understanding among us. And building a nation should begin when we start to have mutual trust in ourselves. So, public office is a litmus test to that. So, our northern brothers must understand that everything has colouration. Tendencies come and go. If tendencies come around, they should allow other tendencies also to come around. That is how nations grow. But to say that a particular tendency should occupy the space for ever, I don’t see where that would happen and survive. Nations with such tendencies don’t survive. A nation that survives is the one that has various tendencies to flourish and germinate. What I am trying to say is that it should not be a question of debate again that the topmost political office in 2023 should go to the Yoruba of the South-west. I don’t think there should be any debate on that again. It is only fair enough to a nation, because that has been the most prosperous alliance we have ever had in this country, I mean the alliance between the north and the South-west. But don’t you think rotational system is undemocratic and unconstitutional? If that is so, it means the happiness of Nigerians does not matter! Each ethnic group must have the feel of the centre so that everybody would be happy. And can anybody show me where it is written that we cannot have it that way?! In fact, in other countries, democracy is not holding elections in every four years. Democracy is not when you vote to replace the leadership at all times. No. Democracy is the will of the people. If it is the will of the people that, major ethnic groups, major tendencies should have the taste of presidency periodically; that is democracy. It is not essentially about ballots and boxes. It is about the wishes of the people. So, the people’s wish is that, I can only be comfortable as a Nigerian when an Ibo man, a Yoruba man, Hausa/Fulani man and the Ibiobio, Urobo and all others can preside on the affairs of the country in turns. If that is the wish of every Nigerian, well, that is democracy. It is confusing and misleading to continue to create an impression that presidency cannot rotate between the north and the south. In as much as the people agree that, that is the pattern they want, that is democracy. If your wish eventually materialises in 2023, who are those you think are qualified to go for the post? There are a lot of names being bandied around that are eminently qualified to succeed President Buhari. Mention can be made of the former governor of Lagos State and current National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a tested and trusted man. Another former Lagos State governor and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola (BRF), whose tenure as governor still remains talk of the town; He is currently the country’s Minister of Works and Housing; Then, the incumbent Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, also a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), and former Lagos State Attorney General and Justice Commissioner to mention just a few. But what we have to guide against is the emergence of another Yoruba president that would serve our term but who would not serve our interest. My organisation would work against such an individual. Between 1999 and 2007, it was a popular insinuation that, that was a Yoruba slot. But the president at that time repeatedly stated that he was not the president of any ethnic group. And we really suffered for that. Whereas, the idea behind a Yoruba presidency is not solely for the life of Yoruba people to be better than that of other ethnic groups, the agenda of every Yoruba man is not to suppress or oppress any ethnic group. The topmost agenda of an average Yoruba man is equal opportunity and equal access to the wealth of the nation. That is our agenda. We don’t want to be oppressed. We want a common economic system, we want a common railway system and we believe we would run faster if Nigeria is tailored along the pattern I have just said. What advice do you therefore have for the north? My advice to them is simple; It would not cost the north anything if they can prevent the greed of the few to tamper with the integrity of the north. You know the north has a very high integrity and that integrity, they should not allow it to be soiled by the greedy few who would want to insist that the presidency should still remain in the north. I want the north to take the advantage of the goodwill they have among other ethnic groups to remain intact.