Pastor Faith OYEDEPO Dear reader,  you are welcome to the last segment of this teaching for the month. I believe the previous teachings have not only been a blessing to you, but to your family as well. It is my prayer that your spiritual life will be engraced to be more effective and you will gain more command by this, in Jesus’ name! A successful marriage requires commitment to one’s spouse. No amount of prayer, fasting, and “sleeping” in church can take the place of commitment in marriage. Marriage is not a temporary arrangement, but a lifelong commitment.  If this is true, you may wonder why the divorce rate is so high, even among Christians.  The reason is that many couples are not committed to each other. Commitment is the framework on which a marriage is built. A man and his wife must, therefore, be totally committed to each other spiritually, physically, emotionally and otherwise, and this will in turn bring security. A successful marriage must be exclusive, involving one man and one woman, in one lifetime relationship. Each spouse must be committed to “forsake all others”. The home, like any other organisation needs to be managed. It has to be ruled and its affairs controlled and directed in order to find fulfilment and joy in it. A glorious home is not a product of wishes, fasting or prayer. It is only attained by operating in the wisdom of the most High God. It is not enough to build one; it has to be sustained and maintained also. This week, I will be teaching on the missing link between couples. Time Investment Many couples have time for themselves within the first few weeks of marriage and afterwards never do. This becomes even worse when they start having children in the family. This is the reason many marriages that start off so sweetly fail, as a couples who think they know each other find out that they really don’t.  Investing time with your spouse will help build trust, confidence, peace, knowledge and a better understanding in your relationship. It will help you know each other better. The true nature of man appreciates being noticed because man is a living thing. There is nothing as hurting as when one party is neglected in a marriage. Many men just see their wives as a good cook, cleaner, mother of their children and keeper of the home and nothing more. This is so, because time has not been invested to know who their wives really are. 1 Peter 3:7 admonishes: Likewise, ye husbands dwell with them (wives) according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be not hindered. Every man should invest time enough to be knowledgeable about his wife.  You must spend quality time with your wife so much that you know her taste for things like toiletries, wears, colours and her likes and dislikes. The woman, on the other hand, should invest quality time enough to know her husband’s taste for things too.  You must be concerned about his well-being at work, business or career, his success and professional accomplishments. Usually, while a man craves respect from his wife first and then others, the woman’s self-worth is in place when she is loved and appreciated, first by her husband and then others. Secondly, time must be invested on children to meet their physical, emotional and spiritual needs.  A child is a gift from God, a blessing to the family and a unique blend of husband and wife (Psalm 127:3).  This is why time must be created for them too.  This will build love, security and trust. The best environment to raise a child is at home and as parents, God mandates us to fulfil this task.  Once you learn to order your priorities aright, you will find that the time invested in meeting their needs will not be in vain. The time invested in building a solid foundation for those children is not wasted. Even when they leave home and are in a place where you cannot see them physically, the knowledge of what they have been taught becomes a guide. Invest with them regular time such as play time, homework and assignment time; be available to answer their questions and teach them to seek after the Word of God. Wife, if your husband is the busy type, use the wisdom of God to get him to create time for the children.  Time is a very important thing you should invest on your children, not money.  For instance, there was a time when our children would come to me with questions that I felt their father should hear and be the one to answer. I would walk them to his study door and leave them to go in and meet him. Afterwards, they would come back excited and smiling, having had their questions answered. In time, they could confidently go to him and any time they entered his study, he would set them at ease by asking, “How was school today? What did you do at break-time?  Did you eat your school lunch?”  This type of intimacy and open communication was very useful for their emotional stability. Finally, time should be invested for your parents, relations and in-laws but this should be done with wisdom. The following are the things men and women would like to find in a spouse: What a woman wants in a husband What a man wants in a wife Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are born again and now a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily; obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204.  For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building a Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).