It was excitement and glitz as people from various walks of life abandoned everything even defying the current heavy traffic on Ibadan/Lagos road to witness the launch of the much-awaited carton manufacturing company in Ogun State by the governor, Prince (Dr.) Dapo Abiodun, alongside the CEO/Managing Director Jaro Industries, Mr. Kavin Vaswani. Leaving no stone unturned, the management of the company located along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, said they committed $12million which is about N43billion in the carton industry to meet international standards and top quality in order to meet the dynamic needs of their teeming consumers. According to Vaswani, 35% of the investment is family shares while 65% was sourced from banks. “We are ready to take extra miles to satisfy our customers. No sacrifice is too much for our consumers and that is why we left no expenses in order to give them the best; a product that will be able to complete favourably. Our quality speaks for us.” Speaking enthusiastically during a tour of the factory, Vaswani explained that the state-of-the art corrugation facility is designed with the capacity to deliver 3,000 tons PM, with the machines converting the craft paper into corrugation boxes, this will make it possible to produce and supply high quality corrugated carton to the satisfaction of our teeming customers. “We use the finest materials for our products. We source 70% of our raw materials from Nigeria while the remaining 30% which we cannot find here is sourced from abroad. We are happy to be sourcing most of the raw materials here because it makes it cheaper and easier for us,” noted the CEO. Explaining further, Vaswani, who was visibly excited, said, “The completion of this project is to further demonstrate the group’s commitment and belief in the Nigerian economy. I must say, there is a lot of potential for economic growth in Ogun State and that is why we have decided to take this bold initiative by citing the factory in this state, with the help of special partners like Bank of Industry, Access Bank and Standard Chartered Bank. We will be creating a direct employment of 250 as well as an indirect employment of 300 people, which we believe will go a long way in reducing the unemployment rate not just in the state but in the country. Further growth will only grow that number.” The project is in line with the Ogun State government’s drive for growth and development and the company has aligned its vision to help to grow the economy, particularly in the area of manufacturing. The group hopes to become the premier manufacturing company in West Africa by 2025. Abiodun, who was the special guest of honour, though represented by the Managing Director OPIC, Yemi Adesoye, expressed his delight at the speedy completion of the project. He said: “We are indeed very pleased to have you plant your factory in Ogun State, it shows we are doing certain things right, which has attracted you to our state. As a government, we would ensure that we give you all the necessary support you require for a smooth operation in the state. Once again, congratulations on this milestone achievement.” To witness the inauguration were specially invited guests which include traditional rulers, captains of industries, business associates, top management staff of Jaro Industries, community leaders and members of the press. The factory is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities that meet international standards anywhere in the world. Some of the equipment in the facility include a state-of-the-art corrugation machine, a five colour fully automatic Flexo Printer and folder gluer, 6 ton boiler, glue kitchen, complete plant conveyor system, complete waste management system, compressors, residential buildings for employees as well as various amenities for the workers. Jaro Industries Limited is a subsidiary of Deekay Group, a corrugated fibreboard carton manufacturing company. The group started its operation in 1972 with trading business. After gaining competency in trading of various products, the group ventured into backward integration and started the manufacturing of exercise books and a printing and packaging business. The manufacturing part of the business has significantly grown to an appreciable level, positioning the company as the most sought after product in the market. Over the years, the group has grown from a small company to a major business house in Nigeria, in the process of growing the business operations which were scattered across various locations based on availability. Now there is an ongoing plan to expand manufacturing operations in Nigeria, aimed at encouraging backward integration and local content enhancement. Meanwhile, the Director General [DG] of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Segun Ajayi-Kadir, said that all nations that want to sustain their economy must pay attention to manufacturing as it is the only sustainable way to abolish poverty. While commending the Deekay Group for building the factory in just nine months which will contribute to creation of jobs, Ajayi-Kadir said the factory will also increase the manufacturing sector’s contribution to GDP. Responding to questions from journalists, he called on government to rescind its decision on Value Added Tax (VAT). He criticised the explanation given for the VAT increase; that it was to empower government to pay the new minimum wage. “The increase is just punishment for the poor. It is like giving one something with the right hand and taking it from that person with the left hand.”