IN a sense, it isn’t an exaggeration to say that the Senate President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and their deputies are homeless. According to an October 3 report, President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan, and Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila, live in their private homes, instead of official residences, five months after the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly. According to the report, “While Lawan still resides in his house in Maitama area of Abuja, Omo-Agege remains in his Guzape home also in the FCT.” Omo-Agege is the Deputy Senate President. The report also said: “It was gathered that Gbajabiamila still lives in one of the former official residences in the Apo Legislative Quarters, which were sold to members of the 6th National Assembly by the Federal Government. Wase lives in the Gwarimpa area of the nation’s capital.” Ahmed Idris Wase is the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. These presiding officers of the National Assembly are entitled to official residences like the heads of the other arms of the Federal Government, but their official residences are still under construction, more than eight years after construction work began. The cost of the official residences is “estimated at N27.1bn upon completion.” The presiding officers of the 9th National Assembly are in this situation because ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration had, on November 30, 2010, approved the sale of the official residences of the presiding officers of the sixth National Assembly in the Apo Legislative Quarters. The beneficiaries at the time were former senate president David Mark; former deputy senate president, Ike Ekweremadu; former Speaker of the House, Dimeji Bankole; and former Deputy Speaker, Usman Nafada. Those who sold these official residences and those who bought them were unthinking people in power.  By privatising these official residences, they showed that they could sell and buy anything. Since then, the construction of new official residences for the leadership of the National Assembly has been work in progress. “It was reliably gathered that construction of the official residences of the presiding officers of the National Assembly was slowed down for financial reasons,” the report said. It’s nearly a decade since the former official residences of the leadership of the National Assembly were privatised. They shouldn’t have been sold in the first place; and they shouldn’t have been bought.  The selling and the buying amounted to corruption. The sellers and the buyers were corrupt.