All the big European teams were in action this week as the Champions League formally kick-started. Manchester City thrashed Shakhtar Donetsk, Liverpool felled at San Paolo again, Spurs were spurs. Chelsea was disappointing while Barcelona was poor as well. No surprises then that Manchester City are the highest-rated team for the Champions League trophy this season by all the big bookmakers. City are 10/3 (according to Bet365), 3/1 (according to Betfair) and 33/10 (according to Unibet) while Barcelona are being priced at 9/2 with SkyBet and 5/1 with Betfair. Surprisingly, Liverpool, the previous season’s winners, hasn’t been rated very highly by the bookmakers. Bet365 has given them the odds 7/1 while Coral has offered 13/2 on Liverpool’s chances of winning the Premier League. You can get an exclusive betting offer from Betdaq here and try to make some money from this year’s Champions League. 1- Napoli once again got the best of Liverpool Liverpool, the previous European champions, began the defense of their title against Napoli. The Reds were at their full strength, featuring their formidable front trio of Salah, Mane & Firmino along with Van Dijk, Robertson and Alexander Arnold in their vanguard. Despite boasting such glittering squad players, Liverpool was soundly beaten by the excellence of Carlo Ancelotti’s team. Napoli had given Liverpool a great scare last term, after beating them 1-0 at the San Paolo Stadium. Only Salah’s solitary strike coupled with a clean sheet ensured their progression to the knockouts. And though Liverpool’s group is not as daunting as it was last year, they need to be vigilant and careful. A 2-0 defeat isn’t a full-blown disaster, but still, it is a sign that the Reds need to step up their game and improve. They may be the only side with a hundred percent record in the Premier League but this a different competition entirely. 2- Pochettino’s team shows early signs of vulnerability After the initial wobble into their new campaign, Tottenham grabbed a convincing victory against the Eagles at the weekend. However, the glow of that victory was nowhere to be seen when they took on Olympiacos in their opening Champions League match. Spurs did grab the two early goals in the match, through Harry Kane’s perfect penalty and Lucas Moura’s spectacular goal, but then they let the opposition back in the game. Daniel Podence reduced the deficit with an eye-catching strike followed by Valbuena’s addition to equalize the score. 3- Can Guardiola win the Champions League? Pep Guardiola has won all the trophies with Manchester City- the Premier League, the FA Cup, the League Cup, everything except the Champions League trophy. It is now the last frontier of his City project, the completion of which could result in his departure from the club. If you look at Manchester City, their squad looks perfect, but then again were they any deficient last year or the year before that? We all expected Guardiola’s side to land the European Cup for the previous two seasons, but they failed, twice, at the hands of their own Premier League rivals. So will this season be any different? It is very early to give any opinions but the early signs are very promising. While Tottenham, Chelsea, and Liverpool failed to get full points, City strolled past Shakhtar Donetsk and showed how determined they are to win the coveted trophy this year.