BY KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE, DAMOLA KOLA-DARE and DAVID ADENUGA (Bauchi) The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has been blowing hot over the alleged imposition of the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) on the academic community. The union says the system undermines university autonomy, is unreliable, insecure, and not foolproof against corruption. The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) has also expressed concerns about the centralised payment system. However, the Accountant-General seems adamant about implementing the policy, report KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE, DAMOLA KOLA-DARE and DAVID ADENUGA (Bauchi). Today marks the end of the deadline for  Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) under the employ of the Federal Government to enroll on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) platform – a centralised payment information management system. Since they are among the over 300,000 employees, who are paid from the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF),  workers in universities, polytechnics and colleges of education owned by the Federal Government are expected to meet the enrolment deadline. However, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) will not have it.  The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) does not trust IPPIS either. ASUU President, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi says the IPPIS, a policy, cannot override the law which allows  university autonomy.  What is IPPIS all about? The IPPIS Secretariat is a unit under the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation that pays the salaries of enrolled Federal Government employees directly to the bank. It also manages relevant deductions. Information on the IPPIS website (https://www.ippis.gov.ng) notes that the unit’s main mandate is to ensure payments are made timely, accurately, and without fraud. It reads: “The IPPIS Secretariat is a Department under the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation responsible for payment of salaries and wages directly to Government employee’s bank account with appropriate deductions and remittances of third party payments, such as Federal Inland Revenue Service, State Boards of Internal Revenue, National Health Insurance Scheme, National Housing Fund, Pension Fund Administrator, Cooperative Societies, Trade Unions Dues, Association Dues and Bank Loans. “We are committed to efficient and effective service delivery. Our main aim is to pay accurately and on time within statutory and contractual regulations. We aim to provide a payroll service that is customer focused and that utilises technology wherever possible. There are 459 MDAS on IPPIS Platform as at 31st June, 2017. The department is responsible for processing and payment of salary to over 300,000 Federal Government Employees across the 459 MDAs. IPPIS aim is to enrol into the platform, all Federal Government MDAs that draws personnel cost fund from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. “Since inception of the IPPIS project in April 2007, the department has saved the Federal Government of Nigeria billions of Naira by eliminating thousands of ghost workers.” Idris stated in an advertorial published last Wednesday that IPPIS had “achieved savings of over N273 billion from personnel cost between 2017 and 2018’’.” Idris said ASUU and other unions would have nothing to worry about as the peculiarities of the tertiary education system would be properly managed by IPPIS. He outlined the rules that IPPIS would follow in payment of salaries to academics in the universities and other tertiary institutions, including: 70-year retirement age for professors and readers/associate professors; and 65 for lecturers and other non-teaching workers in universities and other tertiary institutions; payment of 50 per cent salary for visiting lecturers in one visiting institution only; and 100 per cent salary payment for sabbatical in the institution it takes place in addition to full salary in host institution. Other rules are: payment of sabbatical leave for only one year once in seven years subject to approval; and payment of allowances based on collective bargaining agreements between unions and government as approved by the Salary, Income and Wages Commission. Idris accused ASUU of being a clog in the wheel of progress when unions like the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) and the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) supported IPPIS. He claimed that by rejecting the policy, ASUU was endorsing corruption. “ASUU’s opposition to IPPIS is an open endorsement of corruption in the university system as the IPPIS Platform will not allow employment of workers at will without compliance with due process on employment,” he stated in the advertorial.  Why ASUU is against IPPIS University Autonomy: Ogunyemi said IPPIS would undermine university autonomy by usurping the powers of the Governing Council to hire, fire and make payments. He said: “In the first place, the enforcement of IPPIS is a violation of the law on University Autonomy. Section 2AA of the University (Miscellaneous Provision) Amendment Act 2003 states that ‘The powers of Council shall be exercised as in the law and statutes of each university and to that extent establishment circulars that are inconsistent with the laws and statutes of the university shall not apply to the universities. Section 2AAA of the Act also empowers the Governing Council of each university to manage the personnel and finances of the university in line with its approved budget. Academics are employees of their Governing Councils. This means that circulars meant for centralised payment of salaries should not and cannot be binding on universities.” Ogunyemi, however, faulted the Federal Government for not playing its role in monitoring the Governing Councils over the years through visitation panels, claiming that those indicted went unpunished because of their connection to power. “The last general visitations to federal universities were carried out about 10 years ago. Even at that, the White Papers on the visitation panels’ reports hardly see the light of the day. So, many proven cases of corruption and maladministration are swept underneath the carpet. This regularly happens because most of the culprits are politically connected,” he said. ASUU/FGN agreements: If IPPIS is implemented, Ogunyemi said, the Federal Government would be going against its agreement with the unions. “The second ground for ASUU’s opposition to IPPIS is rooted in the letter and spirit of the Union’s agreements with the government. Starting from 1992, all agreements between the Federal Government and ASUU have made provisions for University Autonomy and Academic Freedom. “One salient element of the autonomy concept with respect to the university system is freedom from the encumberances of the Civil Service. This is why we insist that universities are not part of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and they should not be so classified. It will amount to a breach of agreement if it now insists that the directive on IPPIS should be binding on universities. In any case, ASUU strongly believes that a policy cannot override a law,” Ogunyemi said. Dynamism of university practice: ASUU also worries that with lecturers flexible to move their services in and out of universities for collaborations, study or research, IPPIS would be too rigid. He said some lecturers whose services are required by MDAs have suffered as a result. “All over the world, university operations are flexible and dynamic. Scholars and researchers are very mobile. Curricula and programmes are rapidly changing, with far-reaching implications for staffing and personnel requirements. From what we have seen with the implementation of IPPIS so far, the platform was not designed to cope with the dynamism of the university system. Our colleagues who are consulting for the Teaching Hospitals have shared harrowing experiences with IPPIS; many of them have had to make repeated trips from various locations to Abuja for errors in their salaries due to no fault of theirs,” said Ogunyemi. The ASUU chief does not also believe IPPIS would stem corruption in the system. He added that the Union could help the government develop an alternative that would meet the needs of the university system. He said: “A university-based model of personnel information and payroll platform could be networked into a country-wide system with authorised access at different levels. Government can monitor universities through their Governing Councils as I earlier alluded. It is different from what we currently have in IPPIS where employees would have to converge on Abuja to rectify errors committed on payroll not due to their faults. IPPIS gives too much powers to the consultants in Abuja. “ASUU does not and will never support corruption. But, if care is not taken, government may end up transferring the speculated corruptive practices from individual campuses to the IPPIS office.” IPPIS is insecure: Zonal Coordinator, ASUU Bauchi Zone, Prof. Lawan Abubakar,  said the IPPIS software was fragile and insecure, calling for its rejection. Speaking at a press conference at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, ATBU, on Monday, Abubakar said: ‘’I would want to inform you that seasoned computer scientists, programmers and engineers among us (say) the IPPIS software is such a fragile and insecure platform. ”A simple proof to this is a revelation by a computer science lecturer who gave an assignment on the removal of virus from hacked software to his students. You know the students had to hack the software before they could free it. So, he asked them to freely hack any software that they could find.  On the third day, he called the students to ask them which software they had hacked. One of them said ‘IPPIS’. The lecturer said: ”What? Please go and immediately release it! Meanwhile, they had been unable to use the platform in Abuja for three good days. Money was wasted in trying to solve the problem until the students released it. This is how secure the platform is” Corruption: Former ASUU Chairman, University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Dr. Taiwo Oloruntoba-Oju, said IPPIS would not stem the tide of corruption, noting that “at best, it will remove corruption from the visible realm (where stakeholders and whistle-blower within the University system can see it and report it), to the invisible realm, where quid quo pro arrangements can take place between government and university officials to cover up corruption.” Oloruntoba-Oju continued: “It has already been reported that government officials in Abuja now sit on university recruitment lists and demand quid quo pro before approval. This is an open secret. It causes delays and upheavals within the system, and more corruption.” Doubts about IPPIS: ASUU-UNILORIN Chairman, Prof. Moyosore Alao, said members were not convinced by the IPPIS template, which they claimed was developed by a contractor. He called on the government to address the union’s concerns about IPPIS. In a resolution reached after the union’s congress last Friday, he said: “Members noted that ASUU as a body is not against integrity and anti-corruption crusade of the Federal Government, but will not be coerced by the campaign of calumny being championed by the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation, wasting tax payers money to whip the public up into a sentimental state and, paint ASUU bad. Hence, ASUU as responsible union is committed to University autonomy vis-à-vis Council roles in our universities, legal and technical implications of enrolling its members on IPPIS and that the Federal Government should rather address challenges raised on the mere spreadsheet presented by its contractor as IPPIS template.” COEASU Stand Like ASUU, COEASU is not sure of IPPIS. Its Northwest Zonal Coordinator, Malam Muawiyya Usman, said in Gusau, Zamfara, that members of the union should not lose sleep over the enrolment deadline until they hear from their leaders. He reportedly said: “We will continue to wait until the issues are resolved. We don’t want our members to be involved in salary shortage and other challenges experienced by some MDAs that had implemented the system earlier. As I speak, the national leadership of the union has not reached conclusion with members of the union on joining IPPIS until our peculiarities are addressed. Therefore, let’s ignore any form of propaganda regarding this matter until new information comes from our leaders.”  CONUA to deliberate National Coordinator, Congress of University Academics (CONUA), Dr Niyi Sunmonu, said the union, which promised to manage issues differently from ASUU, would discuss the matter. “I have no personal opinion on it.  We wil call a congress and take our members’ view on it.  We will make known our position on IPPIS after having taken it.  Thank you,” he wrote in a WhatsApp message. It is yet to be seen how the issue would be resolved.