It was a gathering to deliberate on the role of the church in nation building, last Sunday. A thorny issue by any standard, considering the dire straits facing our country, Nigeria. By independent statistics, our country is in a perilous times, and exhibits many indices of a failed state. Quite a number also hold the view, that the church is under persecution by secular authorities, and indeed, the Catholic Church offers a daily prayer, for Nigeria in distress. So, it was fitting, that the Catholic Men Organisation of the Holy Family Catholic Church, Festac Town, choose to invite a legal avant-garde, an intellectual colossus, a constitutional lawyer, human rights activist, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a Knight of the Order of Saint Mulumba, Chief Mike Ozekhome, to speak truth to the ecclesiastical and the secular power, on: “The Role of the Church in Nation Building.” Of course he didn’t disappoint. Controversial as ever, Ozekhome did not mind the presence of clerics in the audience to speak on the ills of worshipping wealth by the clergy. He doubted the spirituality of pastors amassing wealth from their congregations to buy jets, live in obscene luxury, and build schools that their peasant members cannot afford to pay the entry fees. He took a swipe at pastors who receive huge donations from their members, who have no visible means of livelihood, without asking them how they made such humongous money they have donated. Ozekhome called such offerings blood money, and charged all clerics to stop such illicit behaviour. He warned that the church is in decline, and that congregations are daily deserting the church. On why some congregants are disconsolate with the state of affairs, he quoted William L. Edelen, Jr. who said: “The church today is… almost indistinguishable from an average corporation or political machine.” The learned silk, noted that the effort to allow popular fancies in the church to accommodate the young people is inappropriate and is backfiring. He again quoted an article tagged ‘Youth Attitudes’ wherein it said: “There’s an old saying that you don’t pull yourself up by dragging the other person down. Just the opposite should be the case. That’s why, in our opinion, the churches have erred in not standing firm behind high moral standards and in being equally firm in teaching what is morally right and wrong. Young people need and want guidance…. There is no compromise with what is morally wrong.” The guest lecturer taught his audience that to build the nation the youth must be properly guided, and instead of allowing their excesses, they should be brought up morally fortified. He took a swipe at the hypocrisy amongst the clerics, wondering why a pastor who preaches to his congregation that they are “covered by the blood of Jesus Christ” should drive about town in bullet-proof armoured vehicles. Thundering like the master Jesus, he said: “when you tell your church members to sow seeds with their pittance earnings, leaving the church hungry, and trekking home, while you fly over them in private jets… you are nothing but a hypocrite.” On the crucible of the foundation for national development, Ozekhome identified the troika of family, faith and education as indispensable. He posited that the first world countries rode on the tripod and still retain their pre-eminence position in the committee of nation on the same triumvirate principles. He identified the church as the biggest influencer in Nigeria. Unfortunately while acknowledging Christianity as a heavy influencer, he observed that many adherents of the Christian faith and even other major religions do not live by the teachings and tenets of their faith. Doing a historical excursion, the learned silk, recalled how Christianity became a redoubt to preserve civilization during the dark ages. In modern African societies, the guest lecturer acknowledged the church as a vehicle for ‘social and political development, good governance and human rights.’ There is no doubt that the Catholic Church has immensely contributed to the transformation of the society using various church organs to fight societal inequality and injustice. A few examples stand out. There is the Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC), St. Vincent the Paul Society, the Catholic Prison Ministry, and the even the National Association of Catholic Lawyers and the Knights in the church, who use their resources to fight for, and propagate social justice. But all that is not enough, as the downward swing in societal morals portray. So, taking a swipe against the churches in Nigeria, the avant-garde noted that while Christians constitute majority of any faith in the country, their moral strength is not reflected in the daily lives of government officials and the society in general. The learned SAN raised a poser: “How do you explain a nation that records millions of people flocking annual religious gatherings and yet, ills such as greed, corruption, nepotism, injustice, impunity etc. are rife both in high and low places?” Ozekhome charged the Church to live up to the admonition in the Holy Bible in Proverbs 31:8, which ordered her to “speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves; ensure justice for those being crushed… speak up for the poor and helpless and see that they get justice.” He charged religious leaders not to act like the Whitewashed sepulchre. They must desist from the profanity described in Titus 1:16 thus: “They publicly declare they know God, but they disown him by their words.” The guest lecturer encouraged the churches to wear the garment of social crusaders. He urged them to work hard to eradicate poverty in the society, noting that “it is the primary mission of the Church to preach the gospel, teach the saved, provide a spiritual atmosphere, reproduce the character of Christ, and bring joy to mankind.” While acknowledging as Jesus did that the poor would always be with us, he noted that it does not imply that the poor should not be cared for. He quoted copiously the Old Testament where the society is obligated to ensure better life for the poor. In conclusion, Chief Mike Ozekhome, argued that Christians must live according to the teachings of Jesus Christ. He pointed to Luke 6:46 wherein Jesus asked: “Why do you call me, Lord, Lord, and yet you don’t do what I tell you?” And what did Jesus ask from his followers? To be socially responsible, by visiting prisoners, clothing the naked, feeding the hungry, or the captives. Ozekhome urged for Christians to participate in government, but warned the church not to engage in partisan politics. He noted, the Church can only engage in prophetic ministry by speaking truth to power on behalf of humanity in general. 