By Tony Akowe, Abuja The House of Representatives on Monday indicted the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and its 11 subsidiaries as well as some companies in the oil and gas sector as the greatest violators of act setting up the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) and the Employee Compensation Scheme. Chairman of the ad hoc committee set up by the House to investigate non-remittance of the statutory one per cent of their monthly payroll to NSITF by government at all levels as well as government agencies and companies in the private and public sector, Alhaji Sada Soli Jibia, said the oil companies always came up with different excuses for non-compliance with the laws of the land. Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said it was sad that government ministries, department, agencies (MDAs) and government-owned companies were among defaulters in the payment of the contributions to the fund. The Speaker said non-remittance by government and its agencies was a glaring repudiation of the government’s constitutional obligation to guarantee the security and welfare of the people. Speaking at the opening of the investigative hearing, Soli directed the oil companies to immediately pay up the backlog of their contribution to the NSITF or face legal action. He said: “In Nigeria, the Coal and Petroleum sectors produced the highest case of fatality per injured person, which is about 16.6 per cent, compared to 5.9 per cent amongst woodworkers. “I am, therefore, calling on all major oil companies, particularly the NNPC and its subsidiaries, which are the greatest violators of this Act, to quickly correct this breach and pay their backlog of contribution to the NSITF before legal action is taken against them. “The fact that government and all its agencies are guilty of this laxity is capable of giving the impression that we do not prioritise the social security and welfare scheme that provides comprehensive compensation to workers who suffer from occupational diseases or sustained injuries arising from accidents at work place or in the course of employment. “We must begin to show more compassion towards the fate of our workers, especially in their weakest moments. We must remember that the whole idea behind the NSITF was to ensure that workers were not abandoned during the most vulnerable period of their lives when they could no longer look after themselves or their families. “This is the principle behind the Employee’s Compensation Act of 2010, which provides a guaranteed and adequate compensation for all workers and their dependants for any death, injury, disease or disability in the course of their employment. “This assistance is meant to be taken from the Solvent Compensation Fund, which the worker and the employer are supposed to contribute into. It is, therefore, both a moral and legal responsibility for the government, and indeed all employers of labour, to ensure that those who spend the best part of their lives working to contribute to the growth of our societies are not allowed to suffer neglect, occupational diseases, injuries or death. “Besides, the only way that workers will be willing to sweat it and put in their best is if they have prior assurance that whatever happens to them in the course of their duties, they would be duly compensated. “It is, therefore, patently sad that over the years, governments, at local, state and Federal levels and indeed many of the employers of labour, have been careless in remitting their contributions to the fund, thereby crippling its operations. “The fact is, without these crucial contributions, the vast majority of Nigerian workers will be denied the prospect of getting any relief whenever they suffer occupational misfortune.” The Speaker, who was represented by house Leader Ado Dogowa, said failure to comply with the requirement of the law guiding the Employee Compensation Scheme is an act of sabotage against the interests of the Nigerian worker, which he sad was unacceptable. Gbajabiamila said the ad hoc committee was set up in response to a resolution of the House of Representatives, arising from a motion we considered during the plenary session of Thursday, July 18, 2019. He said: “It is the employer’s contributions required by law that allows the fund to operate and to meet the demands of its mandate. It follows, therefore, that failure to comply with the requirement of law in this matter is an act of sabotage against the interests of the Nigerian worker, and that is unacceptable. “When, as is evidently the case, government institutions themselves also fail to meet their obligations in this regard, it evidences a glaring repudiation of the government’s constitutional obligation to serve the security and welfare of the people.”