The Federal Government will initiate needed legal framework to grow the automotive sector, Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami has said. He spoke in Abuja at the unveiling of a competition on automotive design, rganised by the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC). Malami said the Federal Government was committed to putting in place necessary legal framework and right policies for the growth of the sector. “This will provide an enabling environment for investments in automobile sector, which will earn foreign exchange for the country and create jobs for the youths,’’ he said. The competition is aimed at discovering talents will promote automotive design. The yearly event presents automotive challenges and gives opportunity to innovative Nigerians to express their talents in applicable design solutions. The challenge focuses on the design of mini-taxi and cost-effective mini-tractor. Malami described the  challenge as a commendable effort in promoting innovations and solutions to the nation’s challenges in mechanical, agricultural and transportation sectors. “The Federal Government will support your efforts through provision of necessary legal framework and desired support aimed at boosting public transportation, agricultural development and food production. “The competition would translate to greater savings of foreign exchange earnings in relation to which Nigeria spends about $8 billion annually importing automobiles,” he said. He urged youths to explore the opportunity provided by the competition to showcase their creativity and their concepts relating to automobile designs. “The desired legal framework and policies will be provided to your ideas,’’ he pledged. NADDC Director-General Mr. Jelani Aliyu said the contest was to provide a platform for the realisation of abundant human capital and creative abilities. He said: “Apart from giving talented Nigerians the opportunity to showcase their abilities in the automotive sector, the challenge will also open exciting possibilities for them to contribute to the actualisation of innovative transportation solutions.’’ Aliyu urged participants to submit entries of their design concepts through (https://naddcdesignchallenge.com). He said winners in the six geo-political zones would win amazing prizes. In addition, national finalists will be attached to the Council’s research and development team. He, however, added that designs must be original and must show advanced aesthetics, functionality and practicality for Nigerian use. The NADDC automotive design challenge jury will be evaluating entries based on design innovativeness, aesthetics and functionality, he said. NADDC Chairman Senator Osita Izunaso said there was the need to review the national automotive policy to address issues inhibiting the growth of the industry. He expressed concern that inconsistency in policies was driving away investors “because they lack confidence in the system’’. “We want a situation that a new car manufactured in Nigeria could be sold at most N4 million. By 2020, we are working on Made-in-Nigeria car that you can pay for over 15 years at a single digit interest,’’ Izunaso said.