All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole yesterday dissociated the party from the recent trending 2023 campaigns advertisement. Oshiomhole, who addressed reporters at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, blamed the campaign posters and billboards on the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The APC national chairman said the PDP was bent on creating disaffection and suspicion among APC members. According to him, the preoccupation of the ruling party, its leaders and members is  good governance and delivering on all the promises they made to Nigerians and supporting President Muhammadu Buhari to successfully lead the country. Oshimhole said the period for politicking and electioneering had ended, adding that the courts were doing their part to sort out other matters that came up after the polls by gradually settling the cases before them. The national chairman urged Nigerians to task politicians to justify the mandates given to them during the last elections. “I want to completely disassociate myself and members of our party from all those posters. We believe that these are the handwork of the PDP people, who think that they can create suspicion within the rank of APC by nominating for our party who they think or purporting or attempting to print for some elements in our party to create complete diversion. “So, I stand here as the National Chairman of APC, not only to deny those posters as they affect me but to deny those posters as they affect any leader of our party because it is not yet time. Even people who may have ambitions are aware that this is not the time. “At this point, all hands must be on deck to support President Muhammadu Buhari and all our governors in their states to work together harmoniously to deliver deliverables for the good of our people in the states and at the Federal level. This is not the time to talk politics. Politics cannot be an all-round season; the season for politics is over. “The Judiciary is also clearing the governorship, the National Assembly and even the presidential elections. Once these are done and left out behind us, I expect all Nigerians to insist that those elected should go back to work and deliver and justify the mandates they have been given. “This is not the time for electioneering. We cannot have electioneering for four years and thereafter you have people elected and continue for another four years. There is time for politicking; there is time for governance. This is the time for governance. All of us in the APC are committed to backing the President to deliver for the Nigerian people. We will not distract him,” he said.