Bolaji Ogundele, Abuja  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the allegation of collusion with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), by the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as an intimidation ploy. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mr. Yekini Nabena, who dismissed the PDP’s alarm as baseless foul crying, alleging instead that the PDP and its candidate were doing everything possible to intimidate the Resident Electoral Commission (REC) into doing their bidding. The PDP’s governorship candidate in the upcoming election in Bayelsa state, Senator Douye Diri, had on Monday alleged that the APC had connived with the INEC to influence the list of Supervisory Presiding Officers (SPOs) deployed for the Bayelsa governorship election. But in a statement made available to newsmen, Tuesday in Abuja, Nabena said the PDP and its governorship candidate were crying wolf in the face of its imminent election defeat, come November 16. APC also revealed that the Bayelsa REC and its official rejected the bribe offer made to them by the PDP’s elements hence the call for the REC’s removal. “The baseless allegation by the PDP and their governorship candidate is part of their plan to intimidate INEC and other critical stakeholders that will be on official election duty. You can see the PDP during their campaigns, they have nothing to tell Bayelsans following the failed administration of Governor Seriake Dickson so they have resorted to falsehood, peddling rumours and crying wolf. “The popularity and wide acceptance of the APC governorship candidate, Chief David Lyon, is giving the PDP sleepless nights. The PDP’s nightmares will soon be over after Bayelsans vote them out on November 16”, Nabena said. According to him, the real issue is the PDP plots to turn Bayelsa state into a warzone so as to enable them buy votes and rig the election. “Bayelsans are more alarmed by the PDP’s arms stockpiling, massive looting of state funds by the outgoing government of Seriake Dickson and other illegal activities geared to rig the election,” he said.