Liverpool needed two second-half goals to come from behind to beat Tottenham at Anfield and restore their six-point lead at the top of the table. Harry Kane scored within 48 seconds of kick-off and keeper Paulo Gazzaniga pulled off a number of impressive saves to give Spurs a 1-0 lead at half-time. Jordan Henderson equalised six minutes after the break before Mo Salah thumped the winner from the penalty spot. Liverpool’s unbeaten run at home extends to 45 league games. In a repeat of June’s Champions League final, Liverpool came out victorious and have dropped just two points in the Premier League this season. They were made to work for it – needing several big chances to score before Henderson eventually slotted his half-volley into the far corner early in the second half. That came moments after Son Heung-min had smacked the crossbar for the second time in the match – his first effort was nodded in by Kane from seven yards out for the opener. But Liverpool’s pressure eventually took its toll when Serge Aurier caught the back of Sadio Mane’s leg and gave away a penalty, which Salah smashed past a stationary Gazzaniga with 15 minutes left. At the Emirates Stadium, Arsenal captain Granit Xhaka was involved in an angry confrontation with his own supporters as Crystal Palace came from two goals down to earn a point in an ill-tempered atmosphere at Emirates Stadium. The Gunners were two up inside nine minutes as Sokratis Papastathopoulos and David Luiz took advantage of poor defending at corners – but it was all downhill from there for Arsenal and manager Unai Emery. Palace pulled one back before half-time when Luka Milivojevic scored from the spot following a VAR intervention after referee Martin Atkinson had initially shown Wilfried Zaha a yellow card for diving in a tangle with Calum Chambers. And Palace were level seven minutes after the break when Jordan Ayew headed in James McArthur’s cross at the far post. Manchester United on their part won a Premier League away game for the first time since February and would have beaten Norwich by more if not for two Tim Krul penalty saves. United’s two first-half goals came moments after outstanding Krul stops. Scott McTominay slammed home the opener seconds after a stunning reaction save from the Canaries keeper to deny Anthony Martial from close range. The video assistant referee (VAR) then controversially awarded United a penalty for a Ben Godfrey foul on Daniel James – with Krul stopping Marcus Rashford’s kick. But Rashford scored with United’s next attack as he was left in acres of space by the Norwich defence. United – who move up to seventh in the Premier league – were awarded a second penalty by VAR for a Todd Cantwell handball. This time Martial took it and went the other way, and again Krul guessed correctly. BBCSports  