For two days last week in Abuja, senior civil servants in the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, among others were trained on innovation to boost their service delivery. EMEKA UGWUANYI reports For two days, senior civil servants in the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF) had their skills honed, courtesy of the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), conjunction with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). The training on Radical Innovation held in Abuja for 80 senior civil servants across the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The Acting Head of Service, Dr. Folashade Yemi-Esan, said the training was aimed at developing a more innovative civil service for improved service delivery via dedicated innovation units. She recalled that one of the eight priority areas in the 2017 to 2020 Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP) is to drive innovation in the service. She said the Head of Service Project Management Team on Innovation was embarking on the establishment of a Service Innovation Department and Service Innovation Units in all the MDAs, as well as an innovation campaign to raise awareness on Innovation in the public sector. She thanked the OPTS for supporting the implementation of the programme, which she described as the “first of its kind in the Nigerian public sector”. OPTS Chairman, Mr. Paul McGrath, commended the OHCSF for the  civil service reform aimed at better performance and improved service delivery. McGrath, represented at the event by Mr. Lorenzo Fiorillo, the Vice Chairman of OPTS, said OPTS members, were delighted by the OHCSF for upgrading the horizon of civil servants in technology. He said: “We are delighted to identify with the leadership and staff of the Federal Civil Service in this effort to build a modern public service and to support OHSCF in the provision of a world-class training programme as part of the activities under the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP) 2017-2020. “I trust that this training, delivered by one of the world’s leading training institutions, will go a long way in supporting the OHSCF in achieving her aspirations to become an organisation that provides world-class service for sustainable national development.” The OPTS chairman called for efforts to create a vibrant oil and gas industry by ensuring the security of lives and property, maintaining stable laws and policies, respecting contract sanctity and fair mechanisms for timely dispute resolution, developing sustainable local capacity and removing structural factors that increase costs. The training was facilitated by Prof. Sanjay Sarma, Vice President, Opening Learning and Prof. Bhaskar Pant, Executive Director, Professional Education of the MIT. Pant said the training was the first professional programme being held in Africa, under the MIT Africa Initiative, which seeks to be engaged in the development of universities as well as the public and private sectors in Africa. The training culminated in an innovation conference held at the NationalUniversities Commission Auditorium, Abuja. It was attended by directors and permanent secretaries across the MDAs.