One of the beauties of democracy is the right of an individual to choice. It affords the individual opportunity to decide on who should lead them. That is why some positivists believe that anybody who subverts free and fair process to the election of a leader deserves capital punishment. Nigeria and several developing countries involved in the democratization process have had its fair share of issues, bothering on election malpractice and impediments against freedom to informed choice. Whatever the case, democracy in Nigeria have come of age, where the political consciousness have grown astronomically, to such an extent that people are beginning to make informed choice. In Bayelsa State, the governorship election scheduled for November 16, 2019 is a straight epic battle between the People’s Democratic Party’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri and his counterpart of the All Progressive Congress, Mr. David Lyon. The atmosphere is already electric over the issue of choice between the two candidates. The stakes in this election are higher than any other election in the history of the state. The essence of this piece is to keep sentiment apart and take a critical appraisal of the two major contending candidates. This will go a long way in contributing to the electoral process, so that the electorate can make rightful choice based on their credentials. It will not be out of place to first make reference to the great philosopher Plato who said that only philosopher kings be made rulers as all philosophers aim to discover the ideal state. Plato contends that philosopher kings possess a special level of knowledge which is required to rule what he called the Republic or the State. Plato therefore placed emphasis on education as a key factor in leadership recruitment process; this idea about the role of education in leadership has transcended time, believing that only informed leadership can bring about happiness and justice in the State. Plato further noted that “there will be no end to the troubles of States; humanity itself till philosophers become kings in the world… and political power and philosophy thus come into the same hands” Also, in laying his epistemological foundation, Plato emphasized in his “allegory of the cave” that knowledge is power and education is light. In other words, only educated people should be entrusted with the task of leadership. In the case of Bayelsa, there is a fundamental problem with leadership recruitment process. It is a real source of worry. It is in the light of the above, this author will lay bare the strength and  weaknesses of PDP’s governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri and that of APC’s David Lyon within the context of Plato’s political philosophy. First, at the level of educational exposure, the PDP candidate, Senator Douye Diri, is a professional or trained teacher and he holds National Certificate of Education, NCE, and Bachelor of Education (B.ED) in political science at University of Port Harcourt. The APC candidate, Mr. David Lyon, too is a trained teacher and holds a National Certificate in Education (NCE) at the then Rivers State College of Education. Senator Douye Diri, after his graduation taught in several secondary schools in the Old Rivers State and later Bayelsa State, where he imparted knowledge and groomed students for leadership. Mr. David Lyon on the other hand has no record of teaching in any school despite his NCE background. So, on the scale of preference before the electorate, if Plato’s political philosophy and epistemology is going to count as it does in other civilised climes, the guess of the electorate is as good as a concluded choice. At the level of public service, Senator Douye Diri had invested the better part of his life to public service and that of the Ijaw (Izon) ethnic group in the country. Apart from serving as a teacher, he was the pioneer Organising Secretary of the Pan Ijaw Organisation known as Ijaw National Congress, INC. He ventured into the murky water of politics and was appointed Commissioner for Youths by then Dr. Goodluck Jonathan administration while Jonathan was governor of Bayelsa State. At the saddle as Commissioner for Sports, Senator Douye Diri initiated programmes at catching young boys and girls into business of sports, some of whom are excelling. Today his nitche in sports administration at Bayelsa State Ministry of Justice is well carved for all to remember. When the governor Seriake led government of restoration came on board, Senator Douye Diri was further appointed as Deputy Chief of Staff and was later made Principal Secretary to the governor. These appointments exposed Senator Diri to the workings of government. No doubt, he was equipped with a very rich service experience, preparing him for higher call to service. Truly, it came when he was elected to represent the Yenagoa/Kolokuma/ Opokuma Federal constituency at the green chamber of the National Assembly. Senator Diri availed himself of the opportunity to embark on landmark motions by drawing the Federal Government attention to the grotesque State of marginalisation of the Niger Delta in terms of development. His sterling performance endeared him to his constituents which later earned him of his election to the Senate. On the other hand, the APC standard bearer was allegedly involved in militancy in the creek of Olodiama in Southern Ijaw, busy confronting multinational oil companies. According to credible sources, it was due to his constant disturbance at the creek, that Agip oil companies decided to enlist his service by providing him the opportunity to carry out surveillance contracts for oil companies; to protect pipeline and other facilities from being sabotaged or damaged by militants in the creek of Bayelsa. This is what had thrown him forth to limelight because he made huge financial fortunes out of it by further engaging youths exposed to militancy. His philanthropic gestures are also well known. But this is why, when Governor Henry Seriake Dickson told Bayelsans to reject candidates with militant background on the occasion of the inauguration of PDP governorship campaign council, it was understandable where the message is being directed at. Sustainable development conscious people hold the opinion that Bayelsans have suffered bad leadership; that this time around the people should drop sentiment and go for who has the requisite exposure to governance and not somebody who wants to learn on the job. They said serious business of governance transcends the pedestrian sentiments of philanthropism, adding that after all, Bill Gate, the second richest man in the world from US, does not seek to contest the presidency of America on account of his philanthropic activities all over the world in the area of poverty reduction, health matters, education and so on. So the question that is begging for answer is, why must any Bayelsan who commit little fund to philanthropic activities want to be a governor? This is a huge question mark on the APC governorship candidate. In other parts of the country, people are projecting their first eleven in the serious business of governance. In the South-West, to North Central, to North- East and North-West, down to even states in the South East and South-South, they present their best in terms of education, public service exposure, some of whom have become presidential materials in the future. In Bayelsa State, since 1999, the state got it wrong in the quality of its leadership recruitment process when it began to patronise militants with no education or half-baked education for positions of trust. This is where the electorate are faced with the simple but tough choice. We should not visit whatever perceived sin of Timipre Sylva on the candidacy of David Lyon, same way one should not visit Governor Seriake Dickson’s perceived sin on Senator Douye Diri, simply because they are all benefactors of the candidates. What is required is objective and informed choice to lead the state. The November 16, 2019 governorship election provides yet another opportunity for paradigm shift away from the poor culture of leadership weaved around mediocrity to a new era (oya oge in Ijaw) of a philosopher king leadership. Just as somebody jokingly said, “if education is not important for leadership, then let us close down all our schools and allow all manner of people to assume leadership position in this global village of competing ideas”. As the election gets closer, the real choice will become manifest and may God see Bayelsans through on this tough path to choose the right candidate. 