An announcement that was meant to be soothing to students of Oyo State at the Law School has snowballed into accusations and counter-accusations between beneficiary students and those who are non-beneficiaries. CHIMA OSUJI reports. •We are shortchanged, say non-beneficiaries 
•Gladiators:we did our homework well In early August, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde hosted some students of the Law School who are indigenes of the state. The students, about 120,  visited the governor to congratulate him on his election victory. They used the opportunity to plead for bursary. Their request was granted by the governor who promptly issued a N60 million cheque (amounting to N500,000 per student) to the visitors. Shortly afterwards, government went ahead to put the information on its twitter handle that it had paid the bursary of the entire indigenes of the state in the Law School. The information generated reactions on the social media. While many students applauded the governor for reviving the state bursary which had been in comatose since 2012, some other  students in the law school stoutly rose, to say they did not benefit from the award. Though the governor was to later use the bursary as part of his achievements in ‘100 days in office’ a few weeks later; yet the entire episode appeared to be mired in controversy. The law students of Class of 2018/2019 of Oyo State Law Students have described the disbursement of the bursary as ‘imbalanced’ and lacking adequate representation of real beneficiaries. President of the 2018/19 Class, Kolapo Sodiq Abidemi, said his colleagues, got nothing from the largesse. adding that only the 2019/2020 Set, benefitted. Abidemi, who is the national president of the Association of Oyo State Law School Students, a body comprising students in the law school across the six campuses, said the list submitted to the governor was not official, as he has in his custody the authentic list  issued by the Nigerian Law School. CAMPUSLIFE learned that the Nigerian Law School has two sets of admission-the ‘regular set’ (2018/2019) admitted in November); as well as the ‘backlog set’ (admitted in April for the 2019-2020 session). While the former category has students spread across the six campuses of the law school; the latter group has students in only Yenagoa, Yola and Abuja arms of the school. Abidemi attributed the ‘shortchanging’ to misinformation given to the government by a representative of the backlog set, Mr Olaniyi Adisa Ogunlade, who according to him, allegedly omitted his set on the ground that they had already graduated from the law school. Though already through with their final exams, Abidemi said neither has their results  been released, nor have they been called to the Bar, indicating that they are still in the system. Meanwhile, Ogunlade, has dismissed the allegation leveled against him as a tissue of lies. Defending his stance, Ogunlade said he acted on behalf of his colleagues alone, therefore he is not answerable for others. The Genesis CAMPUSLIFE learned that as a   tradition upon resumption at the law school, students usually form a cell across the six campuses of the school, and with a representative, to reach out to their state government for bursaries. According to findings, Ogunlade had earlier opened a whattsssup platform Forum of Oyo State Indigenes where he asked his colleagues at the three aforementioned campuses to send in their names. CAMPUSLIFE heard that the regular and backlog sets separately collated their lists and sent to the government, but these were rejected because government insisted on honouring only a comprehensive list from the law school. Abidemi told CAMPUSLIFE that he eventually obtained a consolidated list from the law school comprising names of the two sets. But Ogunlade, with some members of his executive, sought a courtesy visit with Governor Makinde ostensibly to congratulate him on his election victory; but later used that platform to tender the list containing names he gathered on the whatssup platform he earlier opened. Said Abidemi: “I am the president of the NLS Oyo State indigenes. We set out to collect bursary from the state, which was ready to pay us. Then government directed that only those who chose Oyo as their state of origin in law school would be eligible. We requested law school to send a comprehensive list of names of both sets, and the law school was in the process of sending those names when government suddenly announced that it had approved N500,000 bursary for Oyo State indigenes in law school. “We did our investigations and later discovered the governor approved the bursary to backlog students only. ‘’We also learnt Ogunlade misguided the governor that our set had graduated, but we later informed the governor that we have not. The governor then promised to see the comprehensive list by the law school and do the needful. “To our utter dismay, the governor refused to go on with the collation. The governor later came on air to make a public apology on a radio programme. However, we wish to state that we’re offended because, one, our right was infringed upon, paying: backlog’s students at the expense of regular students. “Two, the governor announced that he approved N500,000 to each   law student of Oyo origin. This has created a misconception about us in the public. Friends and family members think we’ve been paid. Going by the governor’s statement, the public believed all law school students of Oyo origin have been paid. Only God knows the number of calls I have received from friends to share my N500,000 with them. How do I explain to them? Ogunla defends stance: Ogunlade dismissed the allegation leveled against him. He also claimed ignorance of the existence of the regular set during the planning and execution stages, saying he simply acted for members of his forum only. Giving his own side of the story to CAMPUSLIFE, Ogunlade described as ‘majic wand’ the whatssapp group-Forum of Oyo State Indigenes which he set up for his contemporaries at the Yenagoa, Yola and Abuja campuses. “I was offered admission at the Yenagoa campus of the Nigerian Law School in April, “Ogunlade began. He continued: “Immediately, I established a whatssapp group and I tried as much as possible to send a link to the three campuses that are used for the backlog set. “It was a voluntary association with a mandate to push the state government to pay us bursary allowance. So, we’ve been on it since we have been on campus. We’ve been having normal deliberations among ourselves on the platform. So, I requested that members should submit their names and other details on that platform. “I took out time to personally collate all the lists on my own. So, when we came to Ibadan for external training, we wrote a letter requesting for a courtesy visit to the governor. We wanted to congratulate him on his emergence as the Executive Governor of Oyo State. We were able to push that letter, and got an audience with His Excellency. “I led the seven-member delegation, spoke on behalf of my forum and thereafter we presented a gift to him. I then pleaded on behalf of members of my forum for bursary. Right there, His Excellency requested for the list of my members and I gave it to him because I had already prepared it. It contained 120 names of my members. On that spot, His Excellency approved the sum of N500,000 to each of us. That was how the news went viral.” Ogunlade however admitted that not all backlog students benefited from the bursary, attributing the development to those who defaulted in sending in their details to the platform. No directive to pay regular students yet, says govt. During his live broadcast on the 100 days in office, Makinde’s attention was brought to the plight of the regular set who are yet to be paid. The governor immediately apologised, saying he was misinformed that the set had already graduated. Nonetheless, he promised to right the wrong, while also making adequate preparation for the twin sets that will be offered admission to the law school next year. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, secretary of the bursary department, Oyo State Ministry of Education Mrs Akinremi M.J, said that no further directive has been given by government in respect of the aggrieved students. Akinremi was equally noncommittal on whether the aggrieved students’ request would eventually be granted. Nevertheless, she suggested that the students could visit the state secretariat to express their displeasure, adding that she as well as the Commissioner of Education would be on ground to attend to their grievances.