SIR: As Nigeria celebrates 59 years of independence, the indisputable fact is that it currently grapples with challenges of security, economy and national unity. In 1960, Nigerians both in and out of the country celebrated the independence moment with an open mind in the hope that the nation will experience radical transformation and development. Six years after independence, the country went through various challenges most notable being the January 15, 1966 coup d’état at a point the structure of governance had barely developed. The consequences of the military intervention led to an unfortunate civil war of 1966 to 1970 which led to the death of thousands of Nigerians. After a series of several military interruptions at different times, the country returned to a civilian administration in 1999. This year, the country celebrated 20 years of uninterrupted democracy. Still, there are a lot of issues despite the improvements in the electoral process with electoral violence, desperation by politicians, vote-buying, logistic issues among others, a recurring factor. Worse still, Nigerian politicians continue to show that they are only interested in taking care of their personal interests rather than those that elected them. They have since succeeded in dividing the country along religious and ethnic lines. No longer are elections based on the capacity and ability of the person to deliver; rather most Nigerians appear to be more interested in seeing their kinsmen occupy the corridors of power. No wonder now that appointments into different ministries, departments, and agencies of government are based on where one comes from and religious consideration rather than merit. The level of insecurity has heightened the distrust among Nigerians. The security situation is getting worse with growing sophistication of ISWAP and, Boko Haram terrorists. Armed banditry in Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi and Kaduna states, herders/farmers clashes and of course widespread of kidnapping especially along Kaduna-Abuja high way has since compounded the problem. The economy appears to be taking one step forward, two-steps backward with over 90.8 million Nigerians living below the poverty line. The industries are no longer functioning; foreign investors are afraid to invest and the level of unemployment is becoming a threat to our national security. Another cancer gnawing at Nigeria’s democracy and its unity is the issue of widespread hate and dangerous speech. This is not unconnected to the widespread access to social media platforms by Nigerians. Nigerian conversational space is suffused with hateful and damaging speeches threatening its corporate existence. Fake news and hate speeches circulating daily are heating up our political atmosphere and sowing seeds of discord among Nigerians. Despite these challenges or problems, the country trudges on. Nigerians should understand the wisdom of God who put us together as one country despite our differences. The government should provide a conducive atmosphere for participatory and inclusive governance. Doing so will tremendously assist the country to surmount its multi-faced problems. The government should also work hard to reduce the level of unemployment, insecurity and the threats to the unity of the country. Happy 59 independence anniversary and God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.