For shoppers and traders, Nigeria @ 59 should bring massive turnaround, especially in food security and affordability, for the people. From the mundane to the ordinary, JANE CHIJIOKE reports that the position taken by this category of Nigerians sums up the yearnings of the retail sector. Nigeria’s 59th independence celebration last Tuesday turned out to be the worst for most traders and shoppers. But while some have tales of woes, others agree that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has made some achievements. They lauded the administration for introducing the trader moni which they claimed has boosted their business. They, however, lamented the closure of the borders, which according to them has led to the high cost of food staples such as rice and others. Most of them who spoke to this reporter said since the year began,  prices of many food items  have been on the increase. For instance, they said a 10-kilogramme of Semovita now sells for N3,000 against its former price of N2,700 in the first quarter of the year; a kilo of chicken sells for between N1,500 and N1,700 against its former price of N1,000;  a bag of rice now sells between N17 and N23,000; five-litre of Kings Oil costs N3,000. Though the price of a basket of tomatoes has reduced from its initial price of N14,000 to between N8,000 and N10,000, shoppers complained that it was still expensive. Thier reason being that it was sold at N4,000  in April. Both shoppers and traders were united in their call for food security. The convener of Rice Revolution, Mr Aladejebi Gbenga, said efforts by successive governments to encourage local food production is the right step at ensuring that the country attains food sufficiency. However, he noted that affordability of food items still remained a major concern. Similarly, the Managing Director, ATMBeautyMpire, Asabe Moses, said the issue of food security in the country has to do with infrastructure availability. She explained that if there were good roads between farms and cities, food stuff would be affordable. “The roads are bad, before farm produce gets to the city it would have spoilt. Farmers pay heavity to transport their produce; so the government should look into this and food will be cheaper,” Moses added. For a shopper at the Ikeja Shopping Mall, Lagos, Mrs Helen Iselobhor, said there is nothing to celebrate as the country is facing hardship. Her position is based on the volume of trading in the past. “The economy has been bad for the masses; we have to deal with high exchange rates, inflation, hunger, recession, poverty all the time.  When the president came on board in 2015, it was really a tough time for the masses. There was hardship to contend. Till date, we are still feeling the brunt in all areas. The cost of food stuff is outrageous.  We cannot even afford basic foods. We are at the receiving end of unfavourable policies of the government and nobody listens to our cries. What have we achieved so far since independence?” she asked. She may be right. A look into the streets prior to the independence celebration confronts one with the stark reality. For instance, the country’s national flags, which were sold in traffic during festivals like this were a scarce item. It is the display of the national flag on vehicles and other areas that an average Nigerian associates with the independence celebration. For Mr. David Godwin, who owns a clothing outfit at Marina, Lagos, N500 worth of food can no longer satisfy him, owing to the increase of food items. He noted that if the planned increase in Value Added Tax (VAT) is implemented, it would put more pressure on his home. “This will affect the price of food items. At present, it has not been easy taking care of the home as prices of food and other basic necessities keep escalating.  If such tax is implemented, it will also affect my business because it will further affect the already dwindling customers’ purchasing power.” A consultant to the Mile 12 Market, Femi Odusanya, said the country has not achieved much to celebrate. He lamented that successive governments had not done much to make food available for the average Nigerian. Likewise, the government has not made the food production value chain attractive for investment, neither have state governments lived up to their billing in supporting the Federal Government’s efforts to enhance cultivation of food production. “So, in reality, food supply is a challenge for which citizens are pay more for less. In addition, a significant percentage of cultivation and other animal production is still peasant in nature. Ninety per cent of the country’s population is still facing the challenge of meeting the basic needs of food, housing and shelter.”