Ericsson has identified breaches of its Code of Business Ethics and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) which it blamed on several deficiencies, including a ‘failure to react to red flags and inadequate internal controls’. These, it said enabled a limited number of employees to actively circumvent internal controls for ‘illegitimate purposes’. While it said it has been co-operating voluntarily since 2013 with an investigation by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and, since 2015, with an investigation by the United States Department of Justice (DoJ) into its compliance with the FCPA and the process is still ongoing, it estimated that it will cost it an estimated $1billion. “While Ericsson cannot comment in detail on the ongoing process with the U.S. authorities, it can with current visibility estimate the cost and thus make a provision, which will impact the third quarter of 2019 results by SEK 12b. We have to recognise that the company has failed in the past and I can assure you that we work hard every day to build a stronger Ericsson, where ethics and compliance are cornerstones in how we conduct business. Over the past two years, we have made significant investments in our ethics and compliance program including our investigative capabilities and have taken actions against employees who have transgressed our values and standards.” Its Chairman, Board of Directors, Ronnie Leten, said: “This has been a formative process for the company. We have worked closely with the Executive Team in enhancing Ericsson’s ethics and compliance program. We are impressed by their conviction in addressing shortcomings and are confident in their ability to deliver on our strategy.” Based on a thorough internal and external assessment of its Ethics and Compliance programme, the company has implemented significant reforms to address identified gaps and further strengthen the programme. This work is still ongoing, and Ericsson will remain relentless in striving to improve and safeguard a strong ethical and compliance culture throughout the company.