By Chinaka Okoro The United Nations Children Funds (UNICEF) says one in every five of the world’s out-of-school children is in Nigeria. The Corona Schools Trust Council (CSTC) is working against this trend, writes CHINAKA OKORO Corona Schools Trust Council Chief Executive Officer Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina believes education sector in Nigeria has received little attention, little innovation or investment. Teachers’ quality, she believe, is on the decline. And she is not amused by the mind-buggling numbers of out-of-school children. All these, she argues, are big, complex national issues. Goal four of the 17 United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals is the need for a child to get quality education. According to the UN campaign for quality education, obtaining a quality education is the foundation for creating sustainable development.  In addition to improving quality of life, access to inclusive education can help equip the people with the tools required to develop innovative solutions to the world’s greatest problems. The United Nations Children’s Funds (UNICEF) formerly called the United Nations Children Emergency Funds (UNICEF) revealed that, one in every five of the world’s out-of-school children is in Nigeria. It further revealed that, even though primary education is officially free and compulsory in Nigeria, about 10.5 million of Nigeria’s children aged 5 to 14 years are not in school, only 61 per cent of six to 11-year-olds regularly attend primary school and only 35.6 per cent of children aged 36-59 months receive early childhood education. Overcoming  the aforementioned  challenges, which is believed can be achieved through effective partnership among all stakeholders  that would eventually  improve the nation’s  education quality and system was the centre of  focus at the  Corona Schools’ Trust Council’s maiden edition  of its Corona Connect Series with the theme: “Quality Education: Imperative for  Social Change” and with sub-theme: sustainability Channels for Economic Empowerment: A Spotlight on Education. The well-attended seminar held at the expansive hall of The Podium, Lekki,  Lagos on Thursday, October 24. It had in attendance one of the renowned educationists, Hon. (Mrs.) Folasade Adefisayo and Lagos State Commissioner for Education. Incidentally, she was an  Executive Director, Corona  Schools’ Trust Council.  Aside being the keynote speaker, she equally represented Lagos State Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Other dignitaries at the event were  member, Corona Schools Trust Council, Mr. Kunle Adebajo, CEO Corona Schools Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina, former Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, and Chairman, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Justice Bukunola Adebiyi. Adesina described the moment as a proud one for the school, which has been in existence for over five decades to champion the course of education and socio-economic development in Nigeria. She described the series as a thought-provoking relationship for education and social economic well-being. According to Adesina, the aim of the series was to “make a connection for an enabler that not only drives innovation in the classroom but also in the nation. She said: “Over the last three decades, we have witnessed a number of changes in the education landscape in Nigeria. The sector has not been immune to the economic downturn in the country characterised by poverty, high unemployment rate, rising debt profile, high inflation rate, low human population index and unfavourable trade relations, among others. “It is arguable that the poor quality of education has led to this issue or vice versa. However, Nigeria is a great country. We, at Corona believe in Nigeria, and with greatness, comes great expectations. “Education has, no doubt, been the worst hit with little attention, little innovation or investment made to the sector. Teachers’ quality is on the decline, and we hear mind-buggling numbers of out-of-school children. These are big, complex national issues on education to contend with, hence the relevance of this series.” She called on all stakeholders in the education sector, “government, practitioners and investors, to rethink education and commit to the implementation of the redesigned framework that have real potential, to impact social and economic development in Nigeria, using quality education as a bait. “Everyone in the private and public sectors need to rally round, work with the government and do what we can to transform education and bring about the desired change that we want to see. “Corona slogan is “A Legacy of World-Class Education” and it is because we want to sustain a quality track record, that is why we embark on this  programme because it is not about us as an institution but about what will move us forward as a country.” Sanwo-Olu commended CSTC for such  efforts in improving the quality of education in the country, and its invaluable contribution over the years to improving the standard and quality of education. He said: “Education is a potent tool of empowerment and human capital development. It opens the doors for Socio-economic development and also for the larger transformation in societies and nations.” To attain the social change and economic transformation being demanded, he said “it is imperative therefore that we pay undivided attention to improving our educational sector and turn it around both in terms of the content of our syllabus and the introduction of ICT in order to help the younger generation meet up with the rising demands of the digital age.” Speaking on the efforts being made by the Lagos State government towards quality education and returning out-of-school children to the classrooms, Adefisayo said the government is currently focused on introducing ICT into schools’ curriculum, reviewing the school learning syllabus, training and massive recruitment of teachers. “Quality education is very imperative. It is going to drive social change in the country. With quality education, then you will have people who can make the change that we need for this country to move forward. “I  am glad to say that the government of his Excellency, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has decided to make education a focus area. And he is putting his money in that space, not just saying it. He is also doing everything necessary. So by the THEME’s agenda of his Excellency, the E there is Education and Technology, which understands the need to integrate technology into education. Another area of education we are focusing on is infrastructure. “Also teachers’ development is part of it, because a system cannot rise above the level of its teachers. So, we must invest significantly in teachers and not just in terms of their quality, but also in their quantity. We are embarking on an exercise to recruit and keep recruiting teachers as they leave, so that there would be no gap. And we will train them as well. “In summary, we are addressing where we teach, we are addressing who teaches us, and then we are addressing what we teach. We are really working hard on all these and you would soon start hearing a lot of good news from Lagos State.” Enelamah stressed the importance of returning to the basics. “If one looks at what is missing in our country today, one would agree that we need to return to the basics, we need to produce good leadership, reinstate good values, and frankly to build a society that would be globally competitive again. And to achieve this, the most important thing is to ensure that the stakeholders are working together, just like this Corona Connect Series is trying to do. “Hence, government needs to be working with people in the education space, investors, financiers and philanthropists, civil societies and parents to ensure that we are all working together to improve education because the situation is quite desperate in the country currently.” In a chat with reporters, Justice Adebiyi noted that educating the youth is very imperative to the social development of Nigeria. She also noted that consequences of ignorance are more expensive as compared to the cost for a quality education. “Educating our youths, leaders and ourselves is very imperative to the social development of Nigeria. Definitely, we cannot move without education.  And as the largest country in Africa in terms of population, we have a lot to contribute, and we have a teeming population of very intelligent people who, if given the opportunity, would be able to contribute positively to the growth of this country.  “Education is necessary and it is the only vehicle that would move us forward as a country.”