Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Wednesday said his colleagues in the Southwest geo-political zone were responding comprehensively to various security challenges facing the zone. Akeredolu, who is also the Chairman, Southwest Governors Forum, disclosed this in Akure during at a church service for the state’s covenant renewal day 2019. The Governor who was represented by his deputy, Agboola Ajayi said the state was working in collaboration with sister states to re-jig the security architecture of the zone to respond adequately to new challenges. He said “It is no longer news that our country is going through security challenges. Therefore, all hands must be on deck to salvage it together. “We are doing our best to respond comprehensively to the new challenges. Ondo State is working in collaboration with sister states in Southwestern zone to re-jig the security architecture of the zone to make it respond adequately to the new challenges. ” Government has never relented on its efforts yo curb crime and criminalities within our boundaries. We will continue this until our people can sleep with their two eyes closed. “Nigeria must survive its challenges and it is possible if we all agree and pray together in unison,” he said. The Governor described the church service as an opportunity to renew strength and pray to God for future life the state, said no government or organisation could achieve craved height. He recommended that other states of the Federation and the Federal Government should renew their covenant with God on yearly basis. According to him “There is, therefore, a compelling need for collaboration of all stakeholders in the task of building a virile and egalitarian society. “It is indeed heartening to be in the presence of several eminent spiritual leaders of Christian body for 2019 edition of this special programme. “It will be recalled that I gladly participated in the last edition, because we know that our dear state and indeed Nigeria needs continuous prayers. “Our administration since inception has partnered the Ondo State chapters of PFN,CAN and other groups, in almost all their programmes and events.”