 Forty teams (24 male and 16 female) will participate in the second edition of the Jandor Foundation Under 14 Boys and Under 16 Girls football competition which will kick off  today at Evans Square Playing Ground, Ebute-Meta in Lagos. Speaking with NationSport at the trophy presentation held at the newly commissioned office of the sponsors, Jandor Foundation on Thursday, the founder and the Chairman of the organisation, Olajide Adediran said the foundation is gender sensitive, hence the need to add the female version to this year’s edition. Adediran, who was represented by the Central Coordinator, Omowunmi Alli-Balogun said the organization will continue to partner with Lagos State Grassroot Soccer Association and others to give talented youths opportunity to exhibit their skills. “Last year we had the Under 14 competition for boys and this year we have decided to include the girls because we also want to ensure that we are reaching everyone. It is not just because we are gender sensitive; we also know that we need to encourage these girls. Without disrespecting the men, our female national team has won more laurels for the country. We need to encourage these young girls so that they can have sense of belonging too.” Secretary of the foundation and a member of the board of Trustee, Akeem Yusuf announced that a total sum of N600, 000 is up for grabs at the competition. “There is no discrimination in the prize money. The winners in both male and female categories will be rewarded with the sum of N150, 000; the second placed team will get N100, 000, while the 3rd placed team will go home with N50, 000. “This is the second edition of the competition and the foundation deemed it fit that involving youths in soccer will take them away from social vices such as drugs, stealing and so on. We already have a Scholarship scheme on ground where we sponsor exceptional students from 100 level to final year in tertiary institutions across the federation. According to the organisers, the final match which will hold on Sunday, 25th of October at the Campos Mini Stadium, Ajele in Lagos.    