Kolade Adeyemi, Kano  Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has constituted a Commission of Inquiry into circumstances that led to the kidnapping and trafficking of nine Kano kids who were later sold and rescued in Onitsha, Anambra state. The Commission headed by retired Justice Wada Umar Rano is also expected to collate data of all missing children in Kano. The Commission would be inaugurated on Thursday 31st October 2019. Parts of the Terms of Reference given to the Commission include: “To conduct an inquiry into cases of missing persons in Kano State from the year 2010 to date and to procure all such evidence, written or oral, and to examine all such persons as witnesses as the commissioners may think it necessary or desirable to procure or examine. “To summon any person in Nigeria to attend any meeting of the commissioners to give evidence or produce any document or other things in his possession and to require the evidence (whether written or oral) of any witness to be made on oath or declaration, such oath or declaration. “To admit or exclude the public or any member of the public or press from any hearing of the commission, to prepare comprehensive data of missing persons in Kano State within the period and circumstances in which they disappeared, ” To find out both immediate and remote causes of cases of missing persons and to prepare and submit a written report including findings and recommendations to the Government of Kano State.” It could be recalled that recently, the Nigerian Police Force, Kano State Command, under the able leadership of the newly promoted Assistant Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ahmed Iliyasu, uncovered cases of missing children in Kano State. A total of nine persons (aged between 2 – 10 years) were kidnapped, out of which, eight were sold in faraway Anambra State. Some of the victims stayed as captives for over five years in Anambra State, losing their identities. Ganduje stated that “section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Law, [CAP. 29], Laws of Kano State, 1990, and of all powers enables the governor to institute this and similar Commissions of Inquiry.” Ganduje noted that, “as the Governor of Kano State, I do hereby notify the general public of the appointment of the persons named in the schedule hereto as commissioners with authority to hold a Commission of Inquiry into cases of missing persons in Kano State, from the year 2010 to 2019 with effect from 30th October, 2019 to 30th November, 2019.” He expressed delight that the nine victims were traced and handed over to their respective families, adding that, “it is worth mentioning to note that this administration takes this callous and heinous crime as a serious security challenge, that shall not be tolerated to continue and no stone shall be left unturned.” The Commission is set to hear from the victims or their relatives, collect evidence both written and oral, visits sites (as the case may be), find both immediate and remote causes and make recommendations to the Government for proper action, in order to eradicate such wicked act.