The Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA) has pleaded with the Federal Government to clear the 735 trucks loaded with perishable goods, stranded at Seme border. ANLCA Seme Border Chapter Chairman Alhaji Bisiriyu Fanu, made the appeal in an interview with reporters yesterday at Seme. He said each of the stranded trucks was carrying over N20 million worth of goods, which amounted to billions of naira wasting at the border. Fanu said: “Some of these goods are perishable and have expiry date. If the expiry date should be closer, nobody will buy them. The importers are not aware of the government policy of border closure and their goods are not illegal. As at now, we have at the park, 403 trucks of goods, while there are 332 trucks right inside the border post, totalling 735. These are trucks with varieties of goods coming into the country. We are begging the government to create a platform for joint examination of goods inside these trucks at the border posts, not only at Seme, but also throughout the land borders in Nigeria. “Security operatives should be involved to check the trucks and they should make sure that any truck with genuine documents should be allowed into the country. “This will enable importers that borrowed money at banks for this business to repay the loan so that debit interest will not throw them out of business. “Most of the traders who imported the goods are frustrated. The Federal Government should act now before the losses they have incurred send them to early graves.” He said the freight forwarders supported the government’s action by closing the land borders for security and sustenance of the economy. “The Comptroller General of Customs Service has come with his team to address us on why the border is closed and we are in support of the action. The neighbouring countries should be able to know that Nigeria is big enough to feed itself,” he said. Fanu appealed to the government to allow goods with genuine documents to pass, as they allowed people with valid passports and ECOWAS documents to pass through the border posts. The Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali, on September 26 said the closure of Nigeria’s borders by the Federal Government was done to strengthen the nation’s security and protect its economic interests. He said this during a meeting with border stakeholders, comprising freight forwarders and security agencies at Seme. Ali said the closure was not intended to hurt anyone, but to protect the country’s interests.