LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has appealed to Lagosians for patience over the bad state of roads in the state, saying the continuous rainfall since he was sworn in about four months ago is slowing down rehabilitation on the roads. As soon as the rains stop, work on the bad roads will kick off in earnest, he said. Sanwo-Olu made the appeal while answering questions on the traffic situation and bad roads in the state at ‘The Platform’ put together by The Covenant Place, which took place at Iganmu on the Lagos mainland, on Tuesday. The event which was a question and answer programme coordinated by Pastor Poju Oyemade has as its theme: ‘Redesigning the Nigerian Economy with new ideas’. Sanwo-Olu promised there would be extensive and massive rehabilitation of roads after the rainy  season, but that all the roads cannot be tackled at once. The governor said it has been raining since he was sworn in, a situation which hampers work with bitumen. He assured that the government was still working day and night to remedy the state of the bad roads in the state. Apart from bad roads, the governor said water, small land mass and population explosion were responsible for traffic congestion but that his government’s remedy for the traffic problem being experienced on a daily basis was a multi-modal transportation system. This, he said, involves developing the rail, water transportation and  bus transit system which the government is already working on. He said, “On water transportation, we are encouraging the building of a lot of jetties and we have just acquired 6-7 new passenger boats that can take 60-70 passengers at a time”. These, Sanwo-Olu said, will be the long-term solution to the transportation problem, adding that the government was working on a short-, medium- and long-term solution to issues surrounding transportation. On commercial motorcycle operators, the governor said because he wants to give everybody a chance to be part of the state development plan, the government is trying to harmonize and come up with a regulation system for them. “This is designed to know who they are, their activities and how to manage them to ensure that they don’t add to the problem of traffic flow in the state, we don’t want to disenfranchise anybody,” Sanwo-Olu said. The governor also disclosed that since his assumption of office it is only in the education sector that he has given a major approval for the recruitment of about 10,000 teachers into the state public schools, a process that is already ongoing. He said he would also ensure proper and adequate regular training for teachers to enhance their efficiency and capacity. “We are constricted in terms of finances, but it is a marathon, we need to continue to run to ensure we meet up and I can assure you that we will meet up and Lagos will continue to be greater,” Sanwo-Olu assured.