As Nigeria celebrates her 59th year of independence, the state of the economy now and in the coming years has been of concern to government and observers. The Muhammadu Buhari administration’s second term will make or break the administration depending on the policies it churns out and how effectively it executes them, Assistant Editor, Nduka Chiejina reports. Determined to continue  the struggle to acheive total economic independence thropugh policy formulation and implementation, the executive arm of government submitted the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) to the  National Assembly. The document set fiscal targets and strategically allocating resources to achieve developmental aspirations that are central to the planning and budgeting process. The MTEF and Fiscal Strategy Paper (FSP) provide information on the impacts of government’s economic and fiscal policies, economic and fiscal environment update, as well as budget policy/process. It is a tool required by law, to ensure and sustain the link between policy on one hand and planning/budgeting on the other, over the medium-term, on a three-year rolling basis. It is designed to translate economic plans into public expenditure programmes within a coherent multiyear macroeconomic and fiscal framework. It indicates fiscal targets and estimates revenues and expenditures, including government financial obligations. To restore the economy to the path of growth, the 2020-2022 MTEF/FSP will signal the direction of government priorities and programmes to accelerate growth. The MTEF/FSP will set out the key parameters and assumptions underlying fiscal policies, as well as the revenue and expenditure profile of the 2020 federal budget. According to Finance Minister , Mrs Zainab Ahmed, “the projections contained will be guided by budget realism.”  Macro-economic performance The says the economy has gained some traction, having sustained eight consecutive quarters of gross domestic product (GDP) growth. “Annual growth has increased from 0.82per cent  in 2017 to 1.93 per cent in 2018 and 2.10per cent in 01 2019 (an upward revision from 2.01 per cent due to oil output revisions). However, the growth of 1.94per cent observed in 02 2019 indicates a decline by 0.16per cent points. The performance observed in 02 2019 follows an equally strong first quarter performance and was aided by stability in oil output” the document said. Nigeria signed the agreement establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), on  July 7, after extensive stakeholders’ consultations and impact/readiness studies. AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-African trade and engender the development of policies that promote African production. AfCFTA intends to cover goods and services and has complementary programmes for infrastructure, industrialisation, agriculture modernisation, small scale trade, as well as innovation, intellectual property, competition and investment.  Monetary policy The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) reduced the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by 50 basis points to 13.5per cent in March 2019 after holding it steady at 14.0per cent for 20 months, but retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) at 22.50per cent and Liquidity Ratio at 30.00per cent. However, the MTEF document raised serious concerns that “in reality, the MPR has ceased to be a key determinant of market interest rates over the past three years. Average lending rates of Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) over the last three years have ranged from 15.33per cent to 31.05per cent” the document said.  Fiscal policy Nigeria’s revenue base is broadly categorised into oil and non-oil. Oil revenue is primarily from crude oil receipts while non-oil earnings are from taxes generated. The document read: “Receipts from both sources have collectively accounted for about 65per cent of total receipts since 2015. In response to the economy lapsing into recession in 2016, government’s fiscal policy stance was to increase aggregate expenditure. Hence, there has been a rise in nominal budgetary expenditure in the past three years.” Making adjustments for inflation, output growth and currency depreciation, the document said “expenditure remains lower than its pre-recession level.” It expressed worries that the current fiscal position is ‘threatened by widening fiscal deficit’, which has forced the government to increasingly access the debt markets to meet its obligations. “The resultant rise in debt has increased the federal government’s debt service obligations as a percentage of federal revenues to over 50per cent, thereby raising debt sustainability concerns. It is therefore imperative that government explores alternative means to raise substantially higher revenues to sustainably meet all its obligations” the document urged.  Budget 2019 implementation The 2019 Budget Proposal was intended to place the economy on “the path of higher, inclusive, diversified and sustainable growth, in order to continue to lift significant numbers of our citizens out of poverty.” However, the performance of the key parameters driving the  budget year-to-May shows that GDP growth, opil production were below target, while oil price is running ahead of projection.  Key performance parameters  Oil revenue Gross oil and gas budget revenue is projected at N9,326.95 billion for 2019. Of this, N3,886.23 billion was expected as at end-May on prorata basis. However, only N2,162,30 billion was realised. This represents 81.5per cent performance. After deductions (including 13per cent derivation), net oil and gas revenue inflows to the Federation Account amounted to N1,432.07 billion. This represents a shortfall of N1,736.55 billion (or 22.8per cent of the prorata amount). Lower than projected oil production, as well as front-loaded costs by NNPC for federally funded projects, were largely responsible for the shortfall.  Non-oil revenue The sum of N1,715.38 billion was generated as non-oil revenues as against N2,140.21 billion projected. This implies a collection performance of 80.1per cent. Of this, Corporate Tax and value added tax (VAT) collections were N666.74 billion and N604.98 billion, representing 75.7per cent and 70.9per cent collection performance respectively. Customs collection was N408.17 billion or 100.5per cent of the projection as at June.  Federation,VAT distributable The cash available for distribution from the Federation Account was N2,964.83 billion, representing 57.5per cent of N5,156.56 billion expected .. Of this, the Federal Government received N1,562.37 billion while the states and local lovernments received N791.92 billion and N610.54  billion respectively. Federal, state and local governments received N87.17 billion, N290.56 billion and N203.39 billion respectively from the VAT Pool Account.  Federal Govt revenue Federal Government’s actual revenues totaled N2,043.32 billion out of N3,499.24 billion projected as at June 2019. Out of this, oil revenue was N900.42 billion (49per cent of prorata budget) while non-oil taxes and independent revenues were N614.57 billion (87per cent of the prorata budget) and N217.84 billion (69per cent of the prorata budget) respectively.  Company Income Tax (CIT) and VAT collections were N349.11 billion and N81.36 billion respectively, representing 86per cent and 71 per cent of targets. Customs collections was N184.10 billion, of which N173.28 billion was from import duties, excise and fees, while N10.83 billion was from Special Levies. The shortfall in CIT collections is partly due to seasonal factors as most companies remit their income taxes during the second half of the year. The slow recovery in economic activities that drive consumption and the lingering security issues contributed to the underperformance of other non-oil revenue sources such as VAT. Non-oil revenue collections, especially income and consumption taxes, are expected to improve as the fiscal year progresses and economic activities increase, with improvements in tax collection efforts, and continuing implementation of policies to improve the environment for doing business in Nigeria.  Expenditure Of the N4,458.48 billion budgeted spending by half-year 2019, N3,390.13 billion has been spent, that is, 76per cent. The spending was largely on recurrent expenditure, including N1,109.10 billion for debt service. “As at end of June 2019, no release has been made for capital expenditure as the Budget was only signed into law in June 2019.” Implementation of the capital budget will be expedited to ensure that critical priority projects are completed or substantially progressed.  Non-oil revenue N1,715.38 billion was generated as non-oil revenues as against N2,140.21 billion projected. This implies a collection performance of 80.1 per cent. Of this, Corporate Tax and VAT collections were N666.74 billion and N604.98 billion, representing 75.7per cent and 70.9per cent collection performance respectively. Customs collection was N408.17 billion or 100.5per cent of the projection as at June 2019.  MTEF 2020-2022 For the medium term years of 2020-2022, the Gederal Government has set a benchmark oil price of $55 per barrel. This, the government said, “is very important to set the oil price benchmark below the forecasts in order to insulate the budget from the usual significant adverse effects of the price falling below the budget benchmark. More importantly, the approach would enable us to build fiscal buffers which can be used to respond effectively to negative oil price shocks in the medium term. Adequate buffers are useful in preventing pro-cyclical policies which would require significant expenditure reduction when oil prices are down, thereby impeding economic growth and development.”  Non-oil revenue assumptions The assumptions underlying the non-oil revenue forecasts for the period 2020-2022 are based on estimates mainly determined using “anticipated growth in the relevant bases for different taxes, the effective tax ratio of collections, and the projected efficiency factor taking account of operational improvements in the operations of the various tax administrators.” The various measures to improve non-oil tax revenue in the medium term include stronger enforcement efforts against tax defaulters; implementation of the Integrated Tax Administration System project; full self-assessment regime for all taxpayers; increased deployment of new technology to improve revenue collection; and stepping up of anti-smuggling activities by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). Government the document revealed “intends to sustain the increase in contribution of tax revenue to the budget through continuous reforms to modernise and further improve tax administration.”  Underlying bases The projections of import duties are based on the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) value of imports, applicable tariffs, and an efficiency factor. The nominal growth of the tax base was assumed to be driven by a tax elasticity in the medium term. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) is employing the use of technology to enhance efficiency in customs revenue collection. The Service will continue the roll-out of the Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System (NCIS II) trade portal across the country for declaration, processing, licencing and exemptions and manifest submission. This solution the document said “will merge the different stand-alone systems and block all loopholes identified in the current system. To further eliminate revenue leakages in the calculation of customs duty, insurance will be automated to complement the automation of Form M (Cost) and Manifest (Freight).” In addition, excise trade will be automated using blockchain technology. This will bring greater transparency and accountability across complex business networks, enabling real time tracking of assets. In the medium term, the NCS will introduce frameworks for effectively recovering duties, taxes and appropriate fees from transactions conducted over electronic networks such as the internet. Also, non-intrusive inspection technology equipment (scanners) will be procured and deployed to critical ports to ensure national security and trade facilitation. To further increase port efficiency, tighten border controls to check smuggling and reduce revenue leakages, the Single Window Project will be implemented. Companies Income Tax (CIT) projection in the medium term is based on the estimated nominal GDP, companies’ profitability ratio, and an efficiency factor. In addition, improved collection efficiency arising from increased efforts at broadening and strengthening the tax net, taxpayer engagement/enlightenment and enhanced use of technology, are expected to enhance CIT collection performance.    The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) is placing lien on about 3,000 non-compliant tax payers’ bank accounts with turnover of N1 billion and above. This is to be drilled down to companies below the N1 billion turnover threshold. FIRS will also leverage e-solutions such as e-registration, e-filing, e-Tax payment, e-TCC, e-Receipt, e-Stamp duty and FIRS-GIFMIS integration. These initiatives are expected to significantly reduce the incidence of tax evasion thereby increasing the tax collectible. Overall, this is expected to result in a reduction in the adjustment factor for the CIT base and improvement in collection performance in the medium term. VAT collection projection is based on estimated total nominal consumption of vatable items and collection efficiency. Nominal consumption is projected at N122.75 trillion in 2020 from estimated N119.28 trillion in 2019. The VAT projections over the medium-term are based on a rate of 7.5per cent. This will be effected through the Finance Bill which will accompany the 2020 Budget Proposal. The document assured that “the proposed increase in VAT rate will not adversely affect the poor as the VAT Act already exempts goods that are consumed by the poor. The list can be expanded if there is need to do so. Efforts will be geared towards enhancing VAT collections by broadening VAT coverage and improving collection efficiency. This will be achieved through continuous nationwide VAT registration and monitoring, as well as the use of technology for auto-collect platforms in more sectors of the economy.” In addition, the solution to deduct and remit VAT and Withholding Tax (WHT) from State government contract payments is to be deployed to all the 36 states. VAT collection efficiency is expected to increase from the present average of 21per cent of the projected nominal consumption to at least 25per cent in 2020, 30per cent in 2021 and 35per cent in 2022. The FIRS will also tap into the Central Bank’s financial inclusion initiative for the informal sector by investing in infrastructure to bring them into the tax net. Independent revenue  Government-Owned Enterprises (GOEs) are still bedeviled by revenue leakages and weak accountability. Hence, additional measures will be introduced to ensure that they operate in a more fiscally responsible manner. GOEs will be required to observe maximum cost-to-income ratios and substantially improve remittances in the medium term, under a new performance management framework.  Macro-economic revenue projections  From the share of the Federation Account and VAT as well as other revenues, the aggregate revenue available to fund the 2020 budget is projected at N7.17 trillion (2.4 per cent or N170.41 billion more than the 2019 Budget of N6.99 trillion). 34.2per cent of this is projected to come from oil sources while the balance is to be earned from non-oil sources. When the retained revenues of the ten major GOEs are considered the aggregate FGN revenue is projected at N7.72 trillion. In the medium term, government will continue to engage with stakeholders in the Niger Delta to ensure conducive environment for oil production, distribution and export. In addition, pipeline security will be further enhanced to attract new investments. Oil revenues will be used to further diversify the production and revenue base of the economy. Expenditure framework The expenditure budget is estimated at N9.12 trillion (this includes grants and donor funding of N36.39 billion). This is slightly higher than the 2019 of N8.92 trillion. Interest payments on debt is estimated at N2.45 trillion and while provision for Sinking Fund to retire maturing bonds to local contractors is N296 billion. The provisions for personnel cost and pension costs are estimated at N2.67 trillion and N536.72 billion respectively. In addition, N40.17 billion (representing one per cent of the consolidated revenue fund) has been earmarked for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), N22.73 billion for GAVI/Routine Immunisation in the service-wide votes (SWV), and N89.44 billion for the power sector reform programme. With these provisions, only the sum of N1.01 trillion (exclusive of capital in statutory transfers) is available as amount for Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) capital expenditure. With the inclusion of capital in statutory transfers, capital supplementation, and grant and donor funded projects, as well as Multi-lateral I Bi-Iateral project-tied loans of N328.13 billion, the capital expenditure amounts to N2.17 trillion.  Aggregate expenditure  With the inclusion of the planned expenditure of the top 10 GOEs of N553.14 billion, the proposed aggregate expenditure rises to an estimate of N10.00 trillion. With the inclusion of the GOEs capital estimated at N 188.23 billion, aggregate capital expenditure (inclusive of capital in statutory transfers) is estimated at N2.17 trillion. This represents 22per cent of the aggregate projected Federal Government expenditure in 2020, which falls short of the 30per cent target in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). This is the consequence of the slower growth in revenues than the rate of growth in non-discretionary recurrent expenditures, specifically debt service and personnel costs.  Fiscal Deficit and Deficit Financing Given the projected revenue and planned expenditure, the fiscal deficit is estimated at N1.95 trillion, about N33.61 billion (or 1.8per cent) more than the estimate of N1.92 trillion in 2019. This level of deficit is 1.37per cent of GDP – well below the threshold (three per cent of GDP) stipulated in the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA), 2007. In order to present a more comprehensive picture of the FGN’s fiscal operations, the revenues and expenditures of the top 10 GOEs as well as expenditures financed from project-tied loans will -be captured in the FGN’s budget. Accordingly, the aggregate fiscal deficit for 2020 will be N2.28 trillion, which is 1.59% of GDP. The deficit will largely be financed by new borrowings estimated at N1.70 trillion while about N252.08 billion will be derived from Privatization Proceeds, and N328.13 billion are loans secured for specific development projects. In 2020-2022, Government will continue its fiscal strategy of directing resources to most productive and growth-enhancing sectors including Security, Infrastructure (including Power and Transportation), Agriculture, Manufacturing, Housing and Construction, Education, Health and Water Resources. This is with the aim of reducing the current infrastructure gap, creating employment opportunities and enhancing growth performance. Government will also leverage private capital to supplement capital allocations from the Budget. 