 WORLDWIDE, few people survive cancer, not to mention having the grace of an opportunity to tell their survivor stories. Mrs. Ngozi Shodunke, of Lagos, is one of those lucky few. I listened to her last Saturday on the health programme of JORDAN 105.5 FM radio Station at Abule-Egba, near Agege, Lagos. The presenter said as the year was winding up, the station thought of reviewing the  cancer carnage in Nigeria to let it be known that  this awesome, dirty and killer disease was preventable and possible to survive. Mrs. Ngozi Shodunke is, for her, a good testimonial of cancer survival. The young woman had lost one of her breasts to cancer through surgery, had gone through chemotherapy and radiation, both of which had killed many people, and survived them, and fed her audience with confidence that under certain situations, cancer-challenged people can emerge from the fire storms … and carry on with their lives. If I heard Mrs. Shodunke well, she was 46 when she felt a lump in one  breast during her routine examination one morning. From her age then, I considered her a young woman not in comparison with mine at 69, but on account of her mother being 90 and alive and kicking, and one of her elder sisters being 70. She is the last of her mother’s children from a family with no history of cancer. She admitted that, prior to being cancer challenged, she was a very busy person who ate lots of  “rubbish” food  or “junk” food  as she described them, with  lots of  “soft drinks” as accompaniment. That did not  strike me much, because such foods are common denominators for blood and tissue toxicity and acidity in practically all disease conditions. Nor was I bowled over when Mrs. Shodunke said she   spoke with cancer-challenged women and found that, like her, they took fertility drugs to get pregnant and that these must have altered their hormonal profiles and set the stage for their cancers. I will come to this point later, as I hope to in respect of other questions raised by her interviewer. One of those questions is the response time of Nigeria’s medical system to the cry for help of sick persons. Mrs. Shodunke said it took one whole, long year for the breast lump she identified and reported at a Nigeria hospital to be identified as dangerous! She wasted no time following it up in Nigeria. With  financial  and emotional support from her family and church, she headed straight away for Europe where, within five days, the cancerous breast was  surgically removed, the reminant tissue cosmetically repackaged, and she was  sent for chemotherapy and radiotherapy over the next year. She lost the  hairs on her head. Her cancer was STAGE FOUR and TERMINAL. But there she  was last Saturday, six years after, feeling like a conqueror on top of a conquered mountain. For any   cancer-challenged person who lives beyond five years after chemotherapy and radiotherapy is  considered a cancer conqueror, a cancer SURVIVOR. Mrs. Shodunke says the conquest comes from within. Indeed, within each person lies dormant potential energy for getting things done, including surviving diseases. She  kept telling herself cancer would not kill her.The cells of her physical body must have absorbed or drunken of this positive energy streaming from the spirit to re-adjust themselves accordingly. And since she got back on her feet, Mrs. Shodunke has readjusted her lifestyle and her diet as well. She has abandoned processed and industrial foods. She starts her day with water and lemon juice, to fight acidosis and alkalinise  her blood and tissues. Her interviewer (Apologies, I could not catch her name) made a careless, sweeping statement when she branded Alternative Medicine as being of no use in cancer therapy, labelled practitioners as quacks and said, quite unfortunately, that these quacks had invaded her radio station, obviously to deceive an unsuspecting public. What she may be forgiven for not factoring into her spur-of-the- moment statement was that there were quacks in every  profession, including Alternative Medicine. Even by the standard of Orthodox  Medicine today, will many young doctors not see as quacks those Orthodox doctors among their  professional progenitors who led their patients to the slaughter labs with toxic medications? There was a time in the history of medicine when doctors cut the VAGUS NERVE, believing it was the cause of over acidity in the stomach and  peptic ulcer. Did Dr. Barry Marshall not prove all of them wrong at the risk of his licence being withdrawn? Which doctor would cut the Vagus nerve today? Also at the risk of losing his licence, did Dr. William Bates not prove in his book, Better Side Without Glasses, the irrelevance of eye glasses, if rigid eye muscles are strengthened and made flexible through eye exercises? Do we, then, say opticians are cranks? Tomorrow, may a new generation of doctors not arise and brand manufacturers and dispensers of chemotherapy medical quacks who have, with it, killed millions of people worldwide? May the survival of one in a million not  be due  to personal reasons? All over the world, there are survivor stories from many people who declined chemotherapy, but lived for upwards of 10 years or more after. Johanna Brandt, of South Africa, cured her stomach cancer on grape fruits juice and wrote her amazing book The Grape Cure. Dr. George Malkhmus fasted almost exclusively on carrot juice, got well and wrote Hallelujah Diet. He went on to set up Hallelujah Acres, a health farm, where he trains doctors and nurses about how to cure cancers with natural foods. We cannot forget Dr. Max Gerson (please google GERSON THERAPY, who,with organic coffee (not edible coffee) enemas, fruits and vegetables juices cured many cases of terminal cancer. Nor can we ignore the “landmark” experiment of Dr. Karl Folkers (google his name), who cured more than 30 cases of terminal breast cancers, using minerals, vitamins and  Co-Enzyme Q10. Some of the other questions raised in this interview will be  addressed  below…  Delayed Response Mrs. Shodunke said her breast’s lump was diagnosed for one year as benign, and only found to be cancerous the year after. Many people have this experience. A former Provost of College of Education, Ijanikin, Lagos State, suffered from a  condition, which was discovered about three years after to be Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. He was retired, and had no money to go abroad for treatment, and relied, as last hope, on a pilgrimage to Mecca for spiritual intervention. He went,  But that was the last of him I saw. There was a 57-year-old woman introduced to me  by Mr. Simon Ekor for counselling on her diet. Her weight was  38Kg. Her throat was so blocked that she had at that time to  feed on liquids through a straw. Her diagnoses for about  two years was esophagitis (inflammation of the oesophagus). I suspected cancer, but did not wish to fracture her emotion. Then the throat blocked more, to allow passage for not even a drop of water. Only saliva passed. Then, I told her to raise possibility of cancer with her doctors. With more tests, they confirmed it . But she declined to have her abdomen perforated to let in a tube into a perforated stomach through which she would then feed on liquids. I  persuaded her to agree. If she could make 75kg, her doctors promised, a section of her intestine would be surgically removed to form a new esophagus to replace the damaged one. I suggested protein- rich powdered greens, such as Spirulina and Kale, along with Liquid Chlorophyll, which she blended with Forever Lite, a protein milk shake from Forever Living  Products ( FLP).  Sometimes, she liquified cocoyam and added Liquid Aminos from Bragg. She took other food supplements and, soon, her weight grew to 65kg. She knew chemo and radiation were dangerous. But who  would  blame her for obeying the oncologists. Her stomach saw the tube as a foreign body to be digested,  threw up  such  quantum of acid to break it down that  literally cooked the tissue. No antacid would help. And some of the cancer cells in the esophagus may have dropped down into the stomach, compounding the problems there. The pain was so severe day and night that she gave in to chemo and radiation. Chemo damaged  her bone marrow and, from a wheel chair, she went in for radiation which, finally, took her life. This story is an unpleasant one for me to tell. I tell it only to back Mrs. Shodunke’s claim that Nigeria’s medical system, good as it may be, is sometimes too slow to to save life. There is a  girl  whose face I see before me but whose name I  cannot remember. She worked at Everready Lundary Services at 80, Igi-Olugbi Street, by Kusa Street, Pedro area of  Shomolu, Bariga, Lagos. Her father was a driver, her mother a housewife. Her mother reacted in pains to intercourse with her father, bleeding or exuding fluid. Each time  she went to hospital, she returned with pain killers. When I saw her hospital papers, I whispered to her daughter this was STAGE 3 cervical cancer. We arranged for her to see an oncologists, who had helped look after Shakirat Adeoti, the  33-year-old microbiology student who had bleeding cancer in both breasts before finally, she died of chemotherapy complications. This girl’s mother was taken in for radiation. She “dried “up rapidly and died soon after. Ever since, I tell anyone who seeks my opinion of the pros and cons of chemotherapy and radiation and let them take a decision. Finally, let me connect on the case of a food seller who  often came  to  sell me food for my dog. Any time she came, she fiddled with one of her breasts through the bra that I thought she was trying to be seductive. One day, I asked her  if she had to fiddle with her bra. She said the breast was itching her. I asked her to check it for a lump when she got home. There was, indeed, a lump. I asked her to head for the hospital immediately.There were too many referrals over 18 months, but nothing concrete came out of them. One day,  I saw her obituary poster on the entrance gate of the housing estate where I lived. Apparently, she was a younger  sister of a professional colleague who built a house in the estate and had her live there while he explored greener pastures abroad.  What causes breast cancer? Like many doctors and researchers, Mrs. Shodunke had no idea of what causes cancer. There are no fewer than 20 possible causes around, which intelligent opinions hover. Before the end of every year or at the beginning of a new year,  I try to summarise new thinking on this question which I present in www.Olufemikusa.com after publication in column. I suggest this website be visited for  these links. It is in summary, therefore, that I will address this subject here. I start with a book written by a group of doctors tiltled:  Cancer is a Fungus. Candida, other yeast forms and fungi are found in foods we consume in this humid  environment. Our bodies battle with yeast and fungi overload every day. Weak organs succumb easily. Among them are fatty organs, such as breasts,  and  the prostate glands, especially where enough anti-oxidants  which protect these organs are  deficient in the diet. Among these anti-oxidants are Vitamins A, C, E, the minerals, selenium and Zinc, and supplements such as Alpha Lipoic Acid, which is active in fat and fluid media. An excessive carbohydrate diet fuels candida and yeast overgrowth. Dr. Solocini of Italy injects breast cancer tissue with naked sugar. Hungrily, the cancer receptors for glucose open for the cancer to ” drink and be merry”. While  they are enjoying  the revelry , he injects them with an alkaline substance. And, because cancer  cells cannot stand alkalinity, they die and the cancer shrinks. Dr. Sam  Asemogha,  of Nigeria, has approached Dr. Solocini to learn this trick. But Dr. Solocini would not let out his trade secret. The alkalisation approach shows that acidity suppresses the immune system and encourages diseases and their agent. It weakens the immune system while it strengthens cancer cells. Back in the 1970s, I learned from a spiritual Work that neither drugs nor injections bring lasting health, and that the way to health is through “the right foods and drinks”. This will take us to the diet stage. But, before then, the Work states emphatically that cancer CAN NEVER take root in any human body in which the liver is healthy and  functions optimally. The liver has now been rightly acknowledged as the chief detoxifying organ of the body. Where it is  sub-optimal in its functions, toxins accumulate in the body which irritate the cells and make them to transform into abnormalities. This message about the liver was delivered to mankind as long ago as in the 1920s. But it was not until about 70 years later, in the 1990s, that autopsies reports began to show a relationship between cancer death and subnormal liver. An uncased liver is like a fireman sent to quell an inferno but is not given a protective gear. Imagine an astronaut on the moon or a diver in a French suit! The liver is protected against the toxins it fights by hepaprotective foods, such as Milk thistle, Carquaja, and Jerusalem Artichoke. It is stimulated to work optimally by bitter principle. This morning, every member of my household had a glass of pawpaw leaf juice before breakfast. Tomorrow, it would be Lemon grass extract tea. Lemon grass has a constituent called CITRAL which some oncologists abroad use to slow the growth of cancer cells. Of the five taste principles (sweet, bitter, sour, bland and salty), many people prefer the sweet and avoid the bitter. Yet, as the Yoruba would say, “the friend of the tongue is the enemy of the body”and  ” the enemy of the tongue is the friend of the body”. Pawpaw leaf juice brings us to enzymes and enzymes therapy. The digestive enzymes help us to digest food. When enzymes are added to the diet, as food supplements, they help digestion get better. But when the proteolytic enzymes are taken on empty stomach, the immune system uses them to fight germs and break down degenerate tissues such as  uterine fibroid and cancers. Germs hate oxygen and thrive in deoxygenated environment. Oxygenation comes partly from the diet and from exercise. Chlorination and  fluoridation of water have deoxygenated the water we drink. Junk food and chemicalised food are deoxygenated food. That is why oxygen tablets and drinks are now popular. Exercise brings oxygen by expanding the lungs to bring in more air and oxygen. How many of us do as little as walk three bus-stops a day? In many people, the lungs are functioning below 40 percent! There  are other  possible cause of breast cancer than can be mentioned now. Others will emerge from other questions raised  by the interview of Mrs. Shodunke. The way into a cul de sac or trouble often, also, shows the way out in reverse order. Surgeon Norman Pearl and Carolyn Myss show in their THE CREATION OF HEALTH, which espouses ENERGY MEDICINE, that PATHOLOGICAL HATRED may cause breast cancer. Even after the mastectomy, cancer may regrow or the other breast may become cancerous if the hatred was unresolved. Some of their patients resolved their  breast cancers through resolution of emotional stresses without the  need for the knife or chemotherapy. Edgar Caycees showed that spinal sublixations may  cause breast cancer. Mrs. Olusola Sowemimo, an organic farmer, attends yearly conventions of CANCER DEFECTED every year when she has the time, to learn how organic foods help prevent and cure cancers. Many people who got well on natural remedies alone come to tell their stories and of the roles of organic foods.  What about fertility drugs Both fertility drugs and anti-fertility drugs are possible culprits. Mrs. Shodunke said she took fertility drugs to get pregnant when she could not get pregnant on her own in five years. She said, also, that  she found that many women  in her shoes she spoke with took fertility drugs as well. Fertility drugs may make a woman to  become estrogenated or estrogen dominant. Estrogen is one of the principal female hormones. When it exceeds its ratio in the hormonal mix, it may overstimulate the ovaries and the breasts, and  even the uterus. In the uterus, uterine fibroids may grow. Spasms of uterine wall during menstruation may cause period pains. A high estrogen profile may cause cancer trouble in the breast.