Elo Edremoda, Warri  Nigerian Army, 63 Brigade, has said the 2019 Operation Crocodile Smile 4 will clampdown on militancy, oil bunkering and other illegal activities posing threats to security across Delta state. The 63 Brigade stated this Monday on commencement of the 4th phase of the operation, at the point of dispute between Aladja and Ogbe-Ijoh communities in Udu and Warri South-West council areas of the state. Speaking, Commander, 63 Brigade, Brigadier General Usman Bello, noted that the operation is in tandem with the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai’s goal to have professionally responsive men to carry out the Nigerian Army’s constitutional role. He was represented by Chief of Staff, 63 Brigade Headquarters, Asaba, Col. Nyong Orok. Bello explained that the Operation Crocodile Smile 4 was designed to aid the state government in tackling security threats such as illegal oil bunkering, oil pipeline vandalism, cultism, kidnapping and militancy. The exercise which started with a free medical outreach is aimed at consolidating on the gains of previous exercises conducted in the 63 Brigade area of responsibility. Describing the medical outreach, as one and first in the series of humanitarian activities of the exercise, he posited that it will help to build confidence and secure the co-operation of law-abiding citizens while combating criminal elements in the state. Further emphasizing the choice of Aladja and Ogbe-Ijoh communities as the kick-off area, the commander expressed hope that their joint efforts during the medical outreach would yield a positive result in advancing peace, security and the general development of the communities. On its part, the Delta state government warned perpetrators and hoodlums, as well as those fuelling the crisis between the communities to desist from the act. Secretary to the Delta State Government, Hon. Chiedu Ebie, who represented Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to commence the humanitarian military exercise, appreciated the Nigerian Army, 63 Brigade for the free medical care. The SSG called on all security agencies to work together with a view to bringing the security challenges across the country under control, just as he promised to ensure that culprits will be made to face the law. Operation Crocodile Smile 4 will be conducted from November 8 to December 23, this year. People from both communities came in their numbers to receive the free medical checks and medicines. Notable personalities at the occasion include Warri Area Commander, CP Muhammed Garba, chairmen of the councils, Mr Jite Brown (Udu) and Mr. Taiye Tuoyo (Warri South-West), SA to Governor Okowa on security, Chief David Tonwe, representative of Pere of Ogbe-Ijoh, Chief Favour Izoukumor and representatives of the Nigerian Navy, FRSC, NSCDC, DSS, among others.