The Police in Ogun State have arrested a 56-year-old fake doctor for allegedly conducting an illegal abortion that killed one Kehinde Olakitan. The suspect identified as Salahudeen Jamiu was October 24 at his hospital, Mojisola Maternity Clinic, after the woman’s husband filed a complaint at Onipanu Division in Ogun State. It was gathered that the deceased who was the woman’s husband had received a call from her friend Dupe Odebunmi that she was on admission at the clinic. But before he could get to the hospital, it was gathered that the suspect and his accomplices had evacuated his wife’s body and dumped it at a building near his residence. Angered by the development, the man, it was gathered, filed a complaint at the police station which led to a manhunt of the fake doctor and his eventual arrest. The Nation gathered that it was after the suspect’s arrest the man knew his wife, a mother of four, was pregnant and had proceeded to have an abortion without his knowledge. It was learnt that Odebunmi, a drug hawker, was the one who introduced the deceased to the quack doctor for the procedure but notified her husband after the woman had died. Odebunmi, according to a police source, claimed she was not aware the doctor dumped the woman’s body near her residence. Confirming the incident, police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent (DSP) said both the doctor and Odebunmi were being interrogated. He said, “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Onipanu SP Magdalene Adeniji received the complaint and detailed detectives to track the operator of the maternity centre who was on the run at the time. “Their efforts yielded positive result when the suspect was arrested on October 24. He admitted that he carried out abortion on the woman who was brought by Odebunmi and that in the process she died. “He confessed that he was not a trained medical doctor that he learnt the practice off the street. He also admitted to have dumped the woman’s body near her house pit of fear. “The corpse has been deposited at the General Hospital Mortuary in Ota for autopsy. The Commissioner of Police Bashir Makama has ordered the transfer of the suspect to homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for proper action. “The CP also appealed to the public to always patronise qualified health providers whenever the need arises instead of seeking medical assistance from quack.” 