 Ideho: Ideho, who died in a road accident on August 19, 2011, worked at NDLEA, Nassarawa. Her PFA is Stanbic IBTC Pension. Her next-of-kins are Segun Ideho, Roland Ideho; and Mrs Funmilayo Ideho. Please help us so that her benefits can be paid. Stanbic IBTC Pension: In line with the process for the regulations for the administration of terminal benefits issued by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), one of the prerequisites for accessing the pension benefits of deceased public sector employees is the remittance of their accrued rights/pension benefits and/or the reconciliation of their Retirement Savings Account (RSA). This is facilitated through the submission of a Death Notification application to PenCom. The beneficiaries of the deceased client had submitted a death notification application for the deceased client’s RSA and this was forwarded to PenCom on March 10, 2016. Please be informed that the RSA has been reconciled by PenCom and the beneficiaries can now visit our pension branches to apply for the deceased’s pension benefits. Attached is a checklist of required documentation to be submitted. We tried calling the numbers of the NoKs to advise them accordingly. MRS OMOGBOYE:  My late husband, Sergent Omogboye, died on February 26, 2004. His Next-of-kin are his three children and I. Gratuity received is N239,000; Pension for one of the children N276,000; another N314,000; Monthly payment of pension is N2,880.80. The pension was paid to only two children; the others have not received any money. Where should I take them to? I want to put them in school. They said the pension would be paid to each child since the day their father died yet nothing has been paid. PTAD: The late Sgt. Omogboye  NoK(Wife)- and three others. The operational department (Police Pension Department) has advised  as follows: 1. All Noks should provide their Bank Statement from the date the account was opened to date.  2. All Noks should provide their BVN slip 3. Noks should provide their birth certificates and the verification slips of each. DSP Atakah (Rtd): Following my complaints on my unpaid pension arrears and the directive given by PTAD through this newspaper, I sent my complaint to the Executive Secretary, PTAD on August 114, 2019 via email. On September 18, 2019, I got a phone call from PTAD that I should send (1) Attestation Form (2) Pension Advice (3) Statement of Account to Lawal of Police Section in PTAD. But I recall that I have sent all these except attestation form. Let me state it that others were paid without it. We did not use attestation before we were paid our gratuity in the old police pension before our merger with PTAD. My hope lies in you. Thanks for your efforts toward my problem. God bless you. PTAD: We have called the pensioner on the case of his unpaid pension arrears between 2001 and 2017 and advised him not to attend any verification again because he has been verified. The pensioner will need to submit his Bank Statement (from 2001 to date) as the Bank Statement submitted during verification is insufficient. If eligible, PTAD will ensure he receives his arrears as funds are allocated and released for the purpose by the Federal Government. MRS ONIYE: My name is Mrs. Oniye. I thank the newspaper for the  Pension Column, which is used to fight for the cause of pensioners. I retired from Federal Government College, Idoani in April 1999, as Grade Two typist, Grade Level 5 Step 10. My gratuity was paid on June 7, 2007. I have not received any monthly pension.  The newspaper should see to my problem by helping me to contact the PTAD on the non-payment of my monthly pension since 1999. PTAD:  We were initially unable to reach the pensioner owing to the wrong telephone number provided. A data search on PTAD Core provided the correct telephone number. We contacted and advised her to scan and send a clear copy of her pensioner’s verification slip to our e-mail (complaints@ptad.gov.ng) to enable us resolve her complaint. The pensioner was verified last September.