A factional group of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo state, popularly known as Reformer group, at the weekend called on the national party leaders to raise a reconciliation committee that will resolve the post-election crisis in the party to ensure the party regains its strength ahead of 2023 election. The group said they are not only ready for peace but resolved to embrace peace move to reconcile the aggrieved members of the party in the state. They called on President Mohammadu Buhari, the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, and the National Leader of the party, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu to wade into the Oyo APC post election crisis , by raising members of reconciliation committee to reconcile all the aggrieved members of the party in the state. The aggrieved members which comprised of the political appointees, former members of the state and Federal Houses of Assembly, ex-senators, former commissioners, former special advisers, and other aides to the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi and other faithful leaders of the party appealed to members to take the reconciliation with all seriousness. The group in a communiqué issued after its emergency meeting in Ibadan, the state capital and signed by its chairman, and a former Commissioner for Environment, Chief Lowo Obisesan and other members of the executive which include; Hon. Jide Adewale, Hon.Olatunbosun Kunle Wasiu, Hon.Yemi Akinlabi, Hon.Adekunle Muktar, Hon.Soji Ojoawo, Hon.Biodun Adegoke, Engr. Dipo Fawole, said all the key layers in the last election had learnt their lesson and resolved that the only way out is true reconciliation. The communiqué further urged all the self-acclaimed leaders of the party in the state to learn from the style of leadership of the national leader of the party, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu who always fix leaders, rather than pursuing selfish interest. The APC reformer regretted the crisis that led to the defeat of the party in the 2019 elections in the state, saying there is need to restore peace in the party to avoid repeat of such development in 2023. “Following the misrule by the incumbent government in the state which led to borrowing N17 billion in less than six months, we have to summon an emergency meeting to ensure avoidance of the 2019 general elections. “We resolve that we are ready for genuine reconciliation of our members. We appealed to President Mohammadu Buhari, the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomole and the national leader of our party, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu to set up a team that will have genuine interest of the party at heart to intervene in crisis across the state. “We also appeal to all the self-acclaimed leaders and elders in the state to bury their selfish interest and embrace peace, and emulate the national leader of our party, Senator Bola Tinubu who in his wisdom fixes his subordinate in positions across the country,” the group said. The party, therefore, warned governor Seyi Makinde to be mindful of his borrowing in the name of the state, adding that the people of the state are watching the development in the state.