FATE Foundation has urged entrepreneurs to exhibit high level of integrity to achieve their desired growth and development. The advise came during the foundation’s fourth Alumni conference in Lagos. The event attracted Lagos State Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, Slot Systems Limited, Chief Executive Officer, Nnamdi Ezeigbo and Senior Partner, TLcom Capital LLP, Mrs. Omobola Johnson, among others. Hamzat, who expressed gratitude to the management of FATE Foundation, said: “The support for SMEs is one with priority focus by the administration in Lagos State as the reality has shown in other growing economies globally, that the SME sector is vital for economic growth. Through the support of SMEs and the private sector, it will help propel expansion of these businesses, which would enable job creation in the state.” He urged young entrepreneurs to always maintain integrity and honour, which is key for business growth, hard work in innovating and providing unique experiences for customers and believe in God. Ezeigbo said budding entrepreneurs to focus on building a strong brand, which will give them an edge in attracting investment opportunities and support from stakeholders, especially in Nigeria due the competitive landscape and lack of trust faced by snall and medium scale entreprises (SMEs). He said: “It is important for entrepreneurs to understand their business capabilities and align it with their business strengths, while he implored them to re-engineer their process in identifying the right people that the business needs to succeed in ensuring synergy of objectives and growth. “It is important for businesses to understand their competitor’s strengths and weakness, which will help in developing innovative strategies as well as pre-empting them activities, but also key for every entrepreneur is to build strategic alliances and partnerships as strong networks helps to grow brands and businesses.’’ FATE Foundation Executive Director Adenike Adeyemi stated that the foundation, founded by Fola Adeola, alongside some individuals, over 19 years ago, has trained over 5,000 persons across 20 states. She stated that the conference themed “Innovating for scale” was aimed at empowering its alumni with the right tools to develop strategies and innovative approach in building their business, product, service for their customers and target markets. 