The growing gender imbalance in pilot population has drawn the attention of global bodies in the sector. To reverse this, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the Airports Council International (ACI) are collaborating in the Next Generation of Aviation Professionals Programme, which targets gender parity among aviation professions, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR, reports. THE International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the Airports Council International (ACI) are mounting a campaign to build the next generation of professionals for the aviation industry. This move, which is not leaving any country behind, is predicated on the need to replace ageing personnel in practically all facets of the industry, including pilots, air traffic controllers, aircraft engineers, flight dispatchers, aeronautical information managers, airline managers, avionics specialists and others. To drive this, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in 2009 launched the Next Generation Aviation Professionals Programme  (NGAP) to ensure that enough qualified and competent professionals are available to operate, manage and maintain the future international air transport system. Besides, the global body was becoming increasingly worried over gender imbalance in the sector .   ICAO has enlisted the support of  key stakeholders, such as airlines, air navigation service providers, airports, manufacturers, trainers, and universities. A curriculum, which ICAO believes is well-rounded to educate the next generation of professionals, has been drawn up. It has  adopted a data-driven approach. To achieve  its objective, ICAO has been offering logistical support to some secondary, college and university students, which organise and conduct Model United Nations events. This support, geared towards raising awareness on multilateral goals and governance as pursued under the United Nations and ICAO, also involves the provision of speakers and experts to address students on specific subjects. According to data from the International Society of Women Airline Pilots (ISWAP), women make up only five per cent of pilots across the globe, but only three per cent are airline chief executive officers. The global body said only 4,000 of the 130,000 pilots worldwide are women. The body said nearly 50 years since the first woman became a commercial pilot, the numbers are still relatively low. British Airways employs around 3,500 pilots, but only 200 of those are woman – and that’s more than any other UK airline. Only 5.4 per cent  of US airline pilots are women, the same percentage as it was decades ago. However, most female pilots in the US speak at schools, to encourage girls to follow in their footsteps. In addition, national programmes like Girls in Aviation Day are designed to promote interest in scientifically minded young women. With the forecast shortage of pilots, much talked about in the US, airlines are hiring females. Delta, for example, has hired 1,600 pilots in the last 18 months and about  four per cent   are women. One possible reason for the low number of women pilots is that juggling family life and childcare with a pilot role, could be challenging. But Lisa, a Boeing 757 and 767 Captain for Delta, said its possible to juggle family life with a career in aviation. Lisa has three teenage daughters but has flown for the last 30 years. Her 18-year-old daughter has just completed her own first solo flight. However, for this year’s International Women’s Day, flight and travel comparison platform, Netflights highlights how gender balance was achieved in the industry last year, including the first appointment of a female chief executive officer  by a major airline, an increase in female pilots, and how a group of female airline technicians are making a place for women in aircraft. Global demand for pilots Many women network organisations, like the International Aviation Women Association (IAWA), have embarked on advocacy to encourage more women to join the aviation iindustry at all levels. Their push for more women inclusion is predicated on the forecast of the sector needing 620,000 pilots, 125,000 air traffic controllers and 1.3 million aircraft maintenance personnel by 2036. A breakdown of the forecast indicates that 67 pilots per day for aircraft with more than 100 seats are required by global indistry whereas 13 new air traffic controllers per day would be required. Nigerian example To drive home the point, Zonta Club of Lagos 1, last week took 100 girls from selected schools on a tour of facilities at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal 2 (MMA2), Ikeja to expose them to career choices in aviation. It was part of actvities to commemorate the International Day for the Girl Child. Its President, Dr. Anastacia Gbem, said the international body organised the girls to mentor them on picking careers in aviation-related fields. Gbem, who is the  Legal Adviser of the Nigerian Aispace Management Agency (NAMA), said: “There are many reasons we brought these girls to tour the Lagos Airport. One is that it will inspire new generation of women leaders in the aviation sector. This is also an ICAO initiative, known as Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen). There is need to consistently and constantly build capacity within the industry. ICAO in 2009 initiated the NextGen professionals which is targeted to encourage the next generation of professionals that can continue to pioneer the work and pilot the work of aviation industry. “Particular emphasis is on the girls because we have a gap. We don’t have the girls matching up with that of men in the sector. So, there is a deliberate attempt to encourage them and to inspire them from their youths so that they they can take interest in science related courses that can lead them to become either aeronautical engineers, or pilots or any of the other phases, or even Aero medical engineering or aviation law so that they can support the work of the industry. As you know, it is safety driven industry and need very qualified experienced and competent professionals to man it at all times.” Gbem continued: ” So, we are doing this, not only in the aviation sector. We are doing it in the arts and public relations. We have scholarship for young women in public affairs, sciences. We also have the science tech scholarship. This science tech scholarship has seen our awardees got to space. So, we have beneficiaries that have gone to space. So, we are promoting that, not just only in aviation sector, but also it is a well rounded adventure.’’ Encouragement from male pilots According to Captain Everest Nnaji, a pilot and chief executive officer, Lagos-based helicopter company, aviation has been a man’s game for decades – despite of women’s significant contributions from the beginning. But now, aviation leaders said they wanted to ensure more leading roles for women. He noted: “The ‘boys club’ of aviation is a result of many decades of neglect, ignoring or diminishing women’s contributions, creating artificial hurdles and sending mixed-messages to young girls, especially in advertising. “The fact is that women have played a pivotal role in the growth of aviation from the beginning, and particularly during times of war. They have piloted, helped build and maintained aircraft, even helped build the systems that keep aircraft flying safely.” He continued: “In time past, aircraft piloting was more of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects concepts, but technology has twisted and turned that around. With nimble fingers and a well organised mind, electronics computers have put flying in the hands of anybody with basic education as well as articulate mind and the passion to fly.” Over the past 10 years, the number of women successfully gaining their ways into the cockpit around the world, and in Nigeria too, is overwhelmingly encouraging. This can be attributed to the fact that the factors that had hindered ladies from going into the cockpit have been eliminated with modern day science and greater awareness in the society. 