YOUTH leaders from Southern Ijaw, the Local Government Area of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, have declared support for the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Douye Diri and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewrujakpor. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, said that the Committee of Youth Presidents and Leaders from the communities in Southern Ijaw endorsed the PDP ticket during a meeting with Governor Seriake Dickson, at the Government House in Yenagoa. He quoted the spokesman for the committee, Mr. Salvation Ayawei, as saying that they took the decision following the developmental strides of the government and peace and stability in the area. Ayawei hailed the efforts of the Dickson administration on road construction, bridges and other projects in the local government, especially the multi billion Bayelsa International Cargo/Passenger Airport. He said the governor’s decision to make sustained investments in the education sector such as the introduction of free boarding educational system, the establishment of tertiary institutions, implementation of reforms in the public sector, among others, were commendable feats. Ayawei said the youth presidents and other youth leaders from Southern Ijaw would ensure the victory of the PDP at the poll. He said: “Your government has brought peace, stability, light and all it takes to make life meaningful to us. You declared a state òf emergency in the education sector, you established and funded new tertiary institutions, introduced reforms in the civil service, then constructed the first ever airport of the Ijaw nation in Southern Ijaw. “Bayelsans are very happy with this government. The Committee òf Youth Presidents and the Southern Ijaw Youths are behind you in the project to ensure the victory of Senator Diri and his running mate.” Dickson urged the youth groups to mobilise support for the PDP and resist acts of intimidation from persons  planning to unleash violence on the state as their only strategy to win election.  