ABCDEFGGHI=Avoid Bribery & Corruption Daily Everywhere For Good Governance Here Immediately for a Nigeria@60. With one day less than one year to become 60, what prospect is there that the coming 364 days will be used any more constructively than the past 59 years and one day? Government which could act at lightning speed always chooses the slow path especially when fixing roads, the lifeline of business, and growth activities. At 59, we cannot understand why potholes cannot be filled with urgency even during the rainy season. People have different needs and priorities than politicians. Obasanjo presented 400 engineers as FERMA with green pickup trucks. Nigerians applauded. Mumu!! There was no return to the ‘Rule of Engineering Law’ just worse rubbish roads ever since. Governance failure!! Sadly, Nigeria’s political history is weighed down with political versions of our ‘Nigerian Dream’ as we were serially and perhaps irreversible ruined by greater and greater failed mega-contracts amounting to trillions while abusing the intelligence of Nigerians by saying that Nigeria has no money. Amazingly, Nigerians are angry, vexing and flexing federal might with P&ID. Hurray!! But every deal, without exception is believed to cheat Nigeria! Why we no vex before? Think! If Buhari was not in power, we probably would have swept this under a huge carpet, with money going both ways. But we know Nigeria’s contracts are routinely awash with maximum failure and corruption. The suffering on the Lagos-Ibadan road, mirrored across Nigeria, only needed good maintenance contracts. Are any heads rolling? Our politicians are as guilty as the guilty in P&ID, only free to loot Nigeria. At 59, why does Nigeria’s ‘Evil’ still prevail against the electrification of Nigeria to the UN recommended 150,000Mw so Nigerian students can read through the night in a clean air and zero noise pollution atmosphere. At 59, families and business cannot overcome burning money daily to overcome the curse of 3,000Mw – one USA village supply. Partially xenophobic South Africa has 45,000Mw! At 59, Nigeria, under the ‘Evil’ political powers, now exports its most precious commodity, its educated professionals, the new intelligentsia, our citizens who hopefully will continue to repatriate billions of dollars from UK, USA, the Middle East Alaska etc. and increasingly now Canada. At 59, less educated, and less wanted, youth flee their disappointing homeland’s political ineptitude and government abandonment as a tsunami of Nigerian illegal migrants to become dead in the Sahara, drowned in the Mediterranean around Lampedusa Island, body parts donors, forced sex workers or unwilling and deceived prostitutes. At 59, ‘Evil’ still perpetuates the muddy quagmire on rubbish roads built and rebuilt at minimum speed and maximum extra cost to budgets, life and limb. At 59, ‘Evil’ causes the refusal of all governments to properly predict and control the traffic from 6am to 9pm to allow citizens to work and return home in a predictable manner daily. At 59, ‘Evil’ forces happily check particulars, especially on a Sunday, of terrified female and their children going to church and amused expatriate visitors to give them a good impression about Nigeria. At 59, bullying traffic officers pull vehicles out of heavy traffic instead of prioritising the removal of the traffic obstacle. At 59, we have no ‘pothole- filling strategy’ for the numerous government staff to fill ‘the millions of potholes of Nigeria’ by direct local empowerment labour, not contractor fraud. At 59, our neighbourhood association filled two dangerously growing leprous potholes with cement instead of a Nigeria@59 party. What did you do? At 59, we are being given government ministry of works assurance that certain ‘key’ roads will be ‘ok’ for the ‘ember months’ traffic.  Name one country which operates its public service responsibility around an ‘ember months’ calendar. Is road use not daily? What is a ‘key’ road? Every road budgeted and paid for once or twice but not done is a key road to Nigeria’s existence. The words ‘Key roads’ remind me of the hated term ‘core subjects’. At 59, the concentration on core subjects has cost Nigeria a broad educational range by forcing teachers to ignore the personal education needs of millions of students deliberately denied teaching and learning time with so-called non-core subjects. I refuse to ever use the hated word ‘minority’. Imagine a country seeking to become a nation@59 still unable to give a glimmer of hope and meaning to ‘True Nationalism’ with proud face and throbbing heart facing the flapping green-white-green from the flagpole when the national anthem is played. This is a country that even cheats its main ambassadors -athletes and fallen heroes- soldiers and pensioners- who die on undeclared battlefields and in never ending pension verification exercise queues without basic facilities like chairs and shade, while staff seeks bribes. Everyone is born with automatic pride in home, family name, state and country. It is the country’s failure to deliver the fundamentals of civilized life that erodes the citizens’ pride in that country. At 59, Nigeria is a country with a history of failing its citizens in security etc. Of course, the country is an inanimate object and it is actually the rulers, leadership, heads of household failures which collectively result in the perceived failure of society and therefore the country Nigeria to meet local and international yardsticks of civilization. Nigeria will be great again, but does it have to take so long? Why not 60,000Mw.Nigeria@60 in 2020? [to be continued]