 THERE was a mild drama at an Igbosere Magistrate Court yesterday when a jobless  26-year-old man, Frank Nwankwo, tried to patronise the trial magistrate before his trial commenced. Nwankwo was being arraigned before the court for allegedly stealing phones and cash from a female police officer attached to a Judge at Igbosere High court, and a trader. Immediately Magistrate Mrs C.J. Momodu entered the courtroom, Nwankwo stood up, raised his hands above his head and shouted that he knew the magistrate and that she could not lie in his case. Nwankwo said, ” As I see this madam, I know that she cannot lie. Check the case very well, if I am the one let me die,” he stated. But Magistrate Momodu  interrupted him and said: “You are in court, you are not supposed to talk. Keep quiet. Prosecutor stop him!”. Magistrate Momodu thereafter took her seat and  ordered the registrar to read the charge to the defendant. As the charge was being read, the defendant again raised his hands above his head as each count was read. He pleaded guilty to the three count charge but said he had explanations to make. Asked for his reasons, the defendant told the court that he is was cleaner and that he carries waste bags. He said, ” I carry dustbin, that is why i said I was guilty with a reason”. The defendant, who resides at Iyana Ina area of Lagos, is facing a-three-count charge bordering on conspiracy and stealing preferred against him by the Police before the court. The Prosecutor Godspower Ehizoba, told the court that defendant committed the offence on October 26, at 7pm, with others still at large, at Cow Lane and Sand Grouse street, Lagos Island. Ehizoba said that the defendant stole one i-tel phone valued N500,000 and cash of N7000, from one trader, Omowunmi Babajide. He also said that the defendant stole one Tecno phone Spark 3, valued N38,000, property of one Lucy Akogun, a female Police officer, attached to a Judge at Igbosere High Court. The Woman Police, Akogun told the  court  that was in the market last Friday when the defendant and his gang came and were holding cane in their hands and disguised as if following a masquerade. She said before she knew what was going on, the defendant had stolen her phone from her bag and passed it over to a member of his gang. She said that immediately she discovered theft, she held the defendant and called Zone 2, Police station which came to arrest the defendant. Magistrate Momodu, entered a ‘not guilty’ plea for the defendant and granted him bail of N50,000, with one surety in like sum. She said that the surety must be gainfully employed and be resident in Lagos and  show evidence of tax payment to the Lagos state government. The case continues on November 21.