You’re probably wondering what else you can do with eggs apart from eating and maybe using for one or two beauty treatments. Below are seven things you probably didn’t know you could do with eggs. Treat a cut The thin membrane from a hard-boiled egg can be applied on cuts to promote healing. The membrane has wound-healing nutrients and can be used as a bandage for cuts. You have to be gentle when applying the membrane on the wound though, so it doesn’t cut from over stretching. To deter pests You can use eggs as some form of pesticide to deter pests. Simply scatter crushed eggshells on top of flowerbeds to discourage and deter snails, slugs and cutworms from coming to the area. To help seeds germinate This is mainly done with flower seeds. Eggshells can be used at the initial stage of seed germination. They can be used to start your seeds for the season. Use a needle to poke a small drainage hole in the bottom half of an empty egg shell, fill in the shell with soil and press in the seeds. Take care of the seeds appropriately and watch them grow. To substitute glue The proteins in egg white tend to set quite firmly when dry because of their strong bonding properties. Raw eggs whites are actually powerful bonding agents that can be used on paper as a substitute for glue when glue isn’t available. To fertilize plants Eggs shells contain a high amount of calcium which is a beneficial mineral for cherry tomatoes, garden eggs and other plants in the nightshade family. For this reason, they are great for use in helping to fertilize these plants to promote growth and germination. To boost calcium intake Like was stated above, eggshells have a high amount of calcium, and aside from using them to fertilize plants, they can also be used to help boost calcium intake in humans. Simply bake an empty egg shell at 350 degree Fahrenheit for eight minutes, let cool, then grind to fine powder and add a teaspoon of it to your juice. To scour metal Ground eggshells are powerful abrasives that can be used to clean dirty pots, pans and even pipes to make them shine and look new again. You can add some soapy water to dampen the ground eggshells a bit before using them to scour the metal.