Following the criticisms that trailed his absence in the men’s 100m at the IAAF 2019 World Championships, Divine Oduduru has opened up on his frustration with the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN). In an interview posted on YouTube yesterday, the America-based sprinter said: “I was frustrated with my federation as IAAF has nothing to do with what happened to me because, if my country does what they are supposed to do, IAAF won’t have issues with us. I am not going to say I lose faith in IAAF because it’s a system that we need to go through. “There are rules that guide everyone, so if we don’t want to follow the rules, things are not going to go right. We don’t expect to think we can change the rules, rules are made for everyone to follow, so that my country does not do what they are supposed to do does not mean that I would have to lose faith in the people that are following the rules and regulations.” Revealing his frustration, he added: “It was in the afternoon of the day we were to run the 200m that I found out I was going to run and I think they have been working towards ensuring that I was listed for the event, so when they said I can run finally I just have to get my body ready.” The athlete that failed to make the 200m finals, further lamented the neglect of athletes by the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), saying: “Now nobody wants to know what happened, nobody wants to understand what happened, people just going around, saying all sort of things. Sometimes they should listen to we athlete because we are the ones that are doing these events. “The way I was proud to put on my school clothes to run is the same way I’m proud to put on my country clothes to run. I don’t want to pay my flight ticket to meet and sit down and watch. This is the biggest meet in my career, so you’re not going to call it a joke.” Meanwhile, Oduduru said he was looking forward to new season in readiness for Tokyo 2020. “I’m not going to lie; I came here to get a medal because I was ranked number two in the world this year,” he said. “The next thing for me is to go back, sit down, meditate, get good rest and get ready for next season.”