If the police rescued 231 kidnap victims countrywide in two months, August and September, it suggests that the kidnap crisis has escalated.   The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, interpreted the number of rescued kidnap victims as evidence of “the stronger relationship between the police and the citizens.” In the same period, Adamu said, the police arrested 216 kidnapping suspects. He announced these figures during his monthly conference with senior police officers in Abuja, on October 3. The police leadership should play down self-congratulation, and focus on self-examination. The number of rescued kidnap victims raises questions about the number of unrescued kidnap victims and the meaning of rescue. Kidnap victims who are released, possibly after a ransom is paid, can’t be said to have been rescued.  Was Adamu talking about kidnap victims who were set free by the police, and didn’t have to pay a ransom to kidnappers? Interestingly, a few days before the police chief released figures meant to highlight the anti-kidnapping effort, news of the release of Mrs Ogere Siasia, octogenarian mother of former Nigeria coach and player, Samson Siasia, who was kidnapped more than two months ago, had grabbed the headlines. “She wept like a baby, tears rolling down freely from her eyes before a battery of television cameras and a horde of reporters,” a September 30 report said. “It was terrible,” she said, asking: “Why do they like to kidnap me? … “They said my son is a millionaire.” Three days after she was kidnapped, her kidnappers demanded   N70m as ransom. They later reduced the ransom to N50m.  It is unclear whether a ransom was paid. A gang of gunmen abducted the old woman from her home in Odoni, Sagbama Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, around 2am on July 15. Mrs Siasia’s case was particularly striking because she had been kidnapped once before, in November 2015, and was released after 12 days in captivity.  It is unclear whether a ransom was paid then. It is also unclear whether her previous kidnappers had returned to kidnap her again. It is possible that kidnappers could try to kidnap her a third time. Another striking aspect of Mrs Siasia’s second abduction was that the man who took a ransom to her kidnappers was held hostage. “According to him, on getting to where they directed him, gunmen surrounded his boat, blindfolded him and took him away,” a report said. Those who kidnapped Mrs Siasia on both occasions are still unknown and unapprehended. Her second abduction and captivity for more than two months further exposed police incapacity. The incident, from the beginning to the end, was bad for the public image of the police and their anti-kidnapping campaign. Kidnappers grabbed the headlines again on October 3, the same day the Inspector-General of Police pubicised the number of kidnap suspects arrested in two months. The police spokesman in Kaduna State, DSP Yakubu Sabo, said in a statement:  “The Command received an information through DPO Tall Gate, in the early hours of today 03/10/2019 at about 0310hrs that, some armed men gained entry into the Engravers College, a Boarding secondary school in a remote area near Kakau Daji village in Chikun L.G.A and took away two staff of the college and six (6) female students to unknown destination. On receipt of that information, the Command immediately mobilised combined teams of Anti-kidnapping, SARS, and conventional police to the area for possible rescue of the victims and arresting the perpetrators of the unfortunate incident. IGP’s Intelligence Response Team (IRT) has been contacted for technical support.” The kidnappers are said to have demanded a ransom of N50million. According to a report, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai said he received intelligence report three months ago that kidnappers might target schools in his state. What was done to safeguard schools in the state? El-Rufai unwittingly exposed his administration’s failure to protect Engravers College. He said:  “Until the kidnapping happened, I didn’t know the school. It is right in the middle of the bush along the Abuja/Kaduna road. It’s in the middle of nowhere really, that’s why it was vulnerable. Other schools are protected…” Was Engravers College the only unprotected school? The governor spoke glibly about his administration’s security approach regarding schools, which sadly failed to protect Engravers College:  “Schools are being watched and we do regular surveillance. We use the Nigerian Air Force planes, we use drones. We do regular surveillance all across the state and we get intelligence as to likely targets. So, with the help of security agencies, we are doing the best we can on this.” It is reassuring that the Inspector-General of Police also said  special trainings were being organised for the special units, including the police mobile force, special forces, counter-terrorism unit, anti-robbery detachments, anti-kidnapping squads and the criminal investigation operatives. “This is with the intention of equipping them with the right orientation for policing in the 21st century and to align their operations within the expectations of the law and the citizens,” Adamu stated.  But the anti-kidnapping campaign needs less talk and more action. Not the kind of mob action at Dutse Alhaji area in Abuja on September 30 when three suspected kidnappers were burned alive.  “The suspects were three young men,” a report said. A Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) officer, Mr Aminu Umar, was quoted as saying that the incident happened at about 8:00 a.m. when a lady in a moving vehicle was heard screaming for help. Umar’s disturbing account: “The lady was suddenly pushed out of the vehicle while screaming. A motorist, who saw what had happened, pulled over in front of the vehicle and blocked it under the Dutse Bridge. From there, Okada riders (motorcyclists) surrounded the vehicle and told them to come out. They asked them if the vehicle was one chance (kidnappers) and the next thing; they started beating them and eventually set them on fire, and also the vehicle.” If kidnappings and kidnappers continue to grab the headlines at such an alarming rate, then who is safe?