4G LTE pioneer service provider in West Africa, Smile Nigeria, has unveiled a campaign designed to give brand new SMIFI and Router devices to its loyal customers. The offer is for customers that have spent a minimum of 12 months on its network. Its Head of Brands and Communication, Lotanna Anajemba, said to be qualified, customers who have spent the required minimum also must have good data usage history and  bring their old SMiFi or Router device in exchange for the new device. Anajemba said eligible customers could only benefit from the offer once a year and would need to update their Know Your Customer (KYC) record with Smile to enable them get notification for the offer. The lucky customers will be contacted via SMS and email and requested to visit their nearest Smile shop or kiosk nationwide to claim their new device. An aspect of the programme is that it offers the customer a router or SMiFi device at no extra cost. However, customers will have to trade in their old device for the new one. It primarily rewards loyalty and is available in all the major cities in which Smile operates. “We recognise that the internet is becoming more and more important for nearly everybody in their everyday lives, and as such, it is our goal to enable as many people as possible to enjoy the best customer experience on the Smile network,” Anajemba said. A cross section of keen industry watchers said the new offer would help customers to become owners of brand new SMIFI or router device. They said the offer is part of Smile’s objective to deepen internet access by delighting customers and attracting new prospects alike. Smile’s effort to get more people on to the internet is demonstrated by its aggressive investment in what is now about the largest 4G LTE network, introduction of a wide and affordable bundle portfolio, affordable data enabled devices and now this exciting offer. This latest offer aligns with its commitment to creating a differentiated value proposition and provide customer centric services, which are aimed at adding unrivalled benefits to its teeming customers spread across major cities and towns in the country. More than anything else, the new offer meets with Smile’s position as the broadband provider of choice in Nigeria that enables its customers to do and achieve more.