The Managing Director Hull Blyth Nigeria Limited,  Christian Holm  said Fiem, the shipping agent to Marguisa Lines, owners of ‘MN Boreas’,  facilitated the visit of the container ship to Calabar Ports  to open up trade and businessess in the eastern ports. It was the first visit of such a vessel to Calabar Port in 15 years. He told members of the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee investigating why Warri, Port Harcourt, Calabar and Onne Ports were not being put to maximal use, that the vessel made its first call to the port on September 22. “We are excited about the willingness of Marguisa Lines to invest in the port and in the new service, and all the new opportunities that open up for trade and development in Calabar and beyond, now that the port is connected with a global container liner service,”Hull  said. He said inadequate and undeveloped infrastructure, shallow water drafts, poor road infrastructure and insecurity are factors hindering large vessels from calling on the ports outside Lagos, saying that port complexes outside Lagos “have not been upgraded in accordance with modern seaborne trade”. He said this relates “especially to containerised trade, where the requirements for sizeable port container yards and related handling equipment are not met,” he said. Holm  said water depth in rivers to the ports as well as alongside the quays have not been dredged or maintained, thereby giving rise to shallow drafts. “The shallow drafts prevent access of average sized vessels to the ports, and shipping companies must instead, deploy smaller tonnage which cannot provide economic transportation to most shippers. “Road infrastructure to connect the ports with the importers and exporters’ places of business lack maintenance and may often be unmotorable. Delivery and distribution of shipping goods thus become uneconomic or even impossible. He said security on waterways and port access roads is critically compromised, adding that vessels require expensive armed protection to navigate the rivers, and road hauliers can only move during limited day time hours with additional high logistic costs. He said the investment by Marguisa Lines and the willingness of its customers to use the Calabar Port will be jeopardised “unless the above key issues are urgently addressed by the government”. Marguisa Lines, headquartered in Madrid and since 1990, has specialised in liner transportation between the Mediterranean and West Africa. Its main service operates between the ports of Algeciras in Spain and Malabo in Equatorial Guinea, and connects a large network of global and regional ports. “The port of Malabo will also serve as hub port for the feeder vessel calling at Calabar on regular basis,”  Holm said.