By Charles Okonji A man, Hope Iyoha, has lamented pressure from his family members to produce his 10 years old daughter for circumcision, explaining that his wife had to abscond with the young girl. Speaking to The Nation about the reoccurring family ritual, Hope Iyoha, stated that his family members are mounting pressure on him to provide his daughter (names withheld) for circumcision and that his wife had ran away with the baby. He stated that the wife had to elope with the 10 years old daughter for safety as the “ugly practice negates her belief as a practicing Christian.” He also said his life is under threat as the family members have been threatening to deal with him should he not provide his daughter wherever she is hidden within the country. He noted that his family strongly believes that female circumcision ritual removes shame and brings protection to the family and the community through the blood gotten from the circumcision. Iyoha said; “Our people believe that it is carried out to control women’s and girls’ sexuality. It is sometimes a condition for marriage. They have the crude belief that if it is not done, the clitoris will grow to the size of a penis, or that FGM will enhance fertility. Others also view the external female genitalia as dirty and ugly. Though, majority do not know why it is done other than to check promiscuity.” A member of the extended family, Osaghale Anthony, stated that a certain girl in the family was kidnapped with the consent of the father for weeks in order to perform the ritual, since the mother was against FGM, stating that the girl only surfaced after she was circumcised. He pointed out that irrespective of government’s effort and the World Health Organisation (WHO) campaign against the act, the family insists and believes it is a vital part of its rich cultural heritage. The Nation learnt that despite the age long campaign against practice of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM), popularly called female circumcision, most families in Amadokhian Village in Uromi, Esan North-East Local Government of Edo State have refused to do away with the practice.